architects and engineers , thankfully .
and why is it ? because they understand triangles and self-reinforcing geometrical patterns are the key to building stable structures .
they manage the process , they understand the process .
and i tried something interesting .
so i offered a 10,000 dollar prize of software to the winning team .
so what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
so , is n't that interesting ? that high stakes have a strong impact .
we did the exercise again with the same students .
what do you think happened then ?
so now they understand the value of prototyping .
so the same team went from being the very worst to being among the very best .
they produced the tallest structures in the least amount of time .
and so , this is the value of the experience , of this so simple exercise .
and the fundamental lesson , i believe , is that design truly is a contact sport .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you very much .
and the problem is not technology itself .
it 's not change or technology that threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it is power , the crude face of domination .
i once travelled 6,000 miles from chengdu in western china overland through southeastern tibet to lhasa with a young colleague , and it was only when i got to lhasa that i understood the face behind the statistics you hear about : 6,000 sacred monuments torn apart to dust and ashes , 1.2 million people killed by the cadres during the cultural revolution .
this young man 's father had been ascribed to the panchen lama .
that meant he was instantly killed at the time of the chinese invasion .
his uncle fled with his holiness in the diaspora that took the people to nepal .
his mother was incarcerated for the crime of being wealthy .
he was smuggled into the jail at the age of two to hide beneath her skirt tails because she could n't bear to be without him .
the sister who had done that brave deed was put into an education camp .
one day she inadvertently stepped on an armband of mao , and for that transgression , she was given seven years of hard labor .
the pain of tibet can be impossible to bear , but the redemptive spirit of the people is something to behold .
and in the end , then , it really comes down to a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotony or do we want to embrace a polychromatic world of diversity ?
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , said , before she died , that her greatest fear was that as we drifted towards this blandly amorphous generic world view not only would we see the entire range of the human imagination reduced to a more narrow modality of thought , but that we would wake from a dream one day having forgotten there were even other possibilities .
and it 's humbling to remember that our species has , perhaps , been around for -lsb- 150,000 -rsb- years .
the neolithic revolution -- which gave us agriculture , at which time we succumbed to the cult of the seed ; the poetry of the shaman was displaced by the prose of the priesthood ; we created hierarchy specialization surplus -- is only 10,000 years ago .
the modern industrial world as we know it is barely 300 years old .
now , that shallow history does n't suggest to me that we have all the answers for all of the challenges that will confront us in the ensuing millennia .
when these myriad cultures of the world are asked the meaning of being human , they respond with 10,000 different voices .
and it 's within that song that we will all rediscover the possibility of being what we are : a fully conscious species , fully aware of ensuring that all peoples and all gardens find a way to flourish . and there are great moments of optimism .
this is a photograph i took at the northern tip of baffin island when i went narwhal hunting with some inuit people , and this man , olayuk , told me a marvelous story of his grandfather .
the canadian government has not always been kind to the inuit people , and during the 1950s , to establish our sovereignty , we forced them into settlements .
this old man 's grandfather refused to go .
the family , fearful for his life , took away all of his weapons , all of his tools .
now , you must understand that the inuit did not fear the cold ; they took advantage of it .
the runners of their sleds were originally made of fish wrapped in caribou hide .
so , this man 's grandfather was not intimidated by the arctic night or the blizzard that was blowing .
he simply slipped outside , pulled down his sealskin trousers and defecated into his hand . and as the feces began to freeze , he shaped it into the form of a blade .
he put a spray of saliva on the edge of the shit knife and as it finally froze solid , he butchered a dog with it .
he skinned the dog and improvised a harness , took the ribcage of the dog and improvised a sled , harnessed up an adjacent dog , and disappeared over the ice floes , shit knife in belt .
talk about getting by with nothing .
and this , in many ways -- -- is a symbol of the resilience of the inuit people and of all indigenous people around the world .
the canadian government in april of 1999 gave back to total control of the inuit an area of land larger than california and texas put together .
it 's our new homeland . it 's called nunavut .
it 's an independent territory . they control all mineral resources .
an amazing example of how a nation-state can seek restitution with its people .
and finally , in the end , i think it 's pretty obvious at least to all of all us who 've traveled in these remote reaches of the planet , to realize that they 're not remote at all .
they 're homelands of somebody .
they represent branches of the human imagination that go back to the dawn of time . and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the naked geography of hope .
so , what we 're trying to do at the national geographic , finally , is , we believe that politicians will never accomplish anything .
we think that polemics -- -- we think that polemics are not persuasive , but we think that storytelling can change the world , and so we are probably the best storytelling institution in the world . we get 35 million hits on our website every month .
156 nations carry our television channel .
our magazines are read by millions .
and what we 're doing is a series of journeys to the ethnosphere where we 're going to take our audience to places of such cultural wonder that they can not help but come away dazzled by what they have seen , and hopefully , therefore , embrace gradually , one by one , the central revelation of anthropology : that this world deserves to exist in a diverse way , that we can find a way to live in a truly multicultural , pluralistic world where all of the wisdom of all peoples can contribute to our collective well-being .
thank you very much .
i 'm going to talk to you about some stuff that 's in this book of mine that i hope will resonate with other things you 've already heard , and i 'll try to make some connections myself , in case you miss them .
i want to start with what i call the `` official dogma . ''
the official dogma of what ?
the official dogma of all western industrial societies .
and the official dogma runs like this : if we are interested in maximizing the welfare of our citizens , the way to do that is to maximize individual freedom .
the reason for this is both that freedom is in and of itself good , valuable , worthwhile , essential to being human .
and because if people have freedom , then each of us can act on our own to do the things that will maximize our welfare , and no one has to decide on our behalf .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
the more choice people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more welfare they have .
this , i think , is so deeply embedded in the water supply that it would n't occur to anyone to question it .
and it 's also deeply embedded in our lives .
i 'll give you some examples of what modern progress has made possible for us .
this is my supermarket . not such a big one .
i want to say just a word about salad dressing .
175 salad dressings in my supermarket , if you do n't count the 10 extra-virgin olive oils and 12 balsamic vinegars you could buy to make a very large number of your own salad dressings , in the off-chance that none of the 175 the store has on offer suit you .
so this is what the supermarket is like .
and then you go to the consumer electronics store to set up a stereo system -- speakers , cd player , tape player , tuner , amplifier -- and in this one single consumer electronics store , there are that many stereo systems .
we can construct six-and-a-half-million different stereo systems out of the components that are on offer in one store .
you 've got to admit that 's a lot of choice .
in other domains -- the world of communications .
there was a time , when i was a boy , when you could get any kind of telephone service you wanted , as long as it came from ma bell .
you rented your phone . you did n't buy it .
one consequence of that , by the way , is that the phone never broke .
and those days are gone .
we now have an almost unlimited variety of phones , especially in the world of cell phones .
these are cell phones of the future .
my favorite is the middle one -- the mp3 player , nose hair trimmer , and creme brulee torch .
and if by some chance you have n't seen that in your store yet , you can rest assured that one day soon you will .
and what this does is it leads people to walk into their stores asking this question .
and do you know what the answer to this question now is ?
the answer is `` no . ''
it is not possible to buy a cell phone that does n't do too much .
so , in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying things , the same explosion of choice is true .
health care -- it is no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , `` well , we could do a , or we could do b .
a has these benefits , and these risks .
b has these benefits , and these risks . what do you want to do ? ''
and you say , `` doc , what should i do ? ''
and the doc says , `` a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
what do you want to do ? ''
and you say , `` if you were me , doc , what would you do ? ''
and the doc says , `` but i 'm not you . ''
and the result is -- we call it `` patient autonomy , '' which makes it sound like a good thing , but what it really is is a shifting of the burden and the responsibility for decision-making from somebody who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to somebody who knows nothing and is almost certainly sick and thus not in the best shape to be making decisions -- namely , the patient .
there 's enormous marketing of prescription drugs to people like you and me , which , if you think about it , makes no sense at all , since we ca n't buy them .
why do they market to us if we ca n't buy them ?
the answer is that they expect us to call our doctors the next morning and ask for our prescriptions to be changed .
something as dramatic as our identity has now become a matter of choice , as this slide is meant to indicate .
we do n't inherit an identity ; we get to invent it .
and we get to re-invent ourselves as often as we like .
and that means that everyday , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
with respect to marriage and family , there was a time when the default assumption that almost everyone had is that you got married as soon as you could , and then you started having kids as soon as you could .
the only real choice was who , not when , and not what you did after .
nowadays , everything is very much up for grabs .
i teach wonderfully intelligent students , and i assign 20 percent less work than i used to .
and it 's not because they 're less smart , and it 's not because they 're less diligent .
it 's because they are preoccupied , asking themselves , `` should i get married or not ? should i get married now ?
should i get married later ? should i have kids first , or a career first ? ''
all of these are consuming questions .
and they 're going to answer these questions , whether or not it means not doing all the work i assign and not getting a good grade in my courses .
and indeed they should . these are important questions to answer .
work -- we are blessed , as carl was pointing out , with the technology that enables us to work every minute of every day from any place on the planet -- except the randolph hotel .
there is one corner , by the way , that i 'm not going to tell anybody about , where the wifi works .
i 'm not telling you about it because i want to use it .
so what this means , this incredible freedom of choice we have with respect to work , is that we have to make a decision , again and again and again , about whether we should or should n't be working .
we can go to watch our kid play soccer , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on our other hip , and our laptop , presumably , on our laps .
and even if they 're all shut off , every minute that we 're watching our kid mutilate a soccer game , we are also asking ourselves , `` should i answer this cell phone call ?
should i respond to this email ? should i draft this letter ? ''
and even if the answer to the question is `` no , '' it 's certainly going to make the experience of your kid 's soccer game very different than it would 've been .
so everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle things , life is a matter of choice .
and the world we used to live in looked like this .
that is to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a matter of choice .
and the world we now live in looks like this .
and the question is , is this good news , or bad news ?
and the answer is yes .
we all know what 's good about it , so i 'm going to talk about what 's bad about it .
all of this choice has two effects , two negative effects on people .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it produces paralysis , rather than liberation .
with so many options to choose from , people find it very difficult to choose at all .
i 'll give you one very dramatic example of this : a study that was done of investments in voluntary retirement plans .
a colleague of mine got access to investment records from vanguard , the gigantic mutual fund company of about a million employees and about 2,000 different workplaces .
and what she found is that for every 10 mutual funds the employer offered , rate of participation went down two percent .
you offer 50 funds -- 10 percent fewer employees participate than if you only offer five . why ?
because with 50 funds to choose from , it 's so damn hard to decide which fund to choose that you 'll just put it off until tomorrow .
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and of course tomorrow never comes .
understand that not only does this mean that people are going to have to eat dog food when they retire because they do n't have enough money put away , it also means that making the decision is so hard that they pass up significant matching money from the employer .
by not participating , they are passing up as much as 5,000 dollars a year from the employer , who would happily match their contribution .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
you really want to get the decision right if it 's for all eternity , right ?
you do n't want to pick the wrong mutual fund , or even the wrong salad dressing .
so that 's one effect . the second effect is that even if we manage to overcome the paralysis and make a choice , we end up less satisfied with the result of the choice than we would be if we had fewer options to choose from .
and there are several reasons for this .
one of them is that with a lot of different salad dressings to choose from , if you buy one , and it 's not perfect -- and , you know , what salad dressing is ? -- it 's easy to imagine that you could have made a different choice that would have been better . and what happens is this imagined alternative induces you to regret the decision you made , and this regret subtracts from the satisfaction you get out of the decision you made , even if it was a good decision .
the more options there are , the easier it is to regret anything at all that is disappointing about the option that you chose .
second , what economists call `` opportunity costs . ''
dan gilbert made a big point this morning of talking about how much the way in which we value things depends on what we compare them to .
well , when there are lots of alternatives to consider , it is easy to imagine the attractive features of alternatives that you reject , that make you less satisfied with the alternative that you 've chosen .
here 's an example . for those of you who are n't new yorkers , i apologize .
gorgeous beach . beautiful day . they have it all to themselves .
what could be better ? `` well , damn it , '' this guy is thinking , `` it 's august .
i could be parking right in front of my building . ''
and he spends two weeks nagged by the idea that he is missing the opportunity , day after day , to have a great parking space .
opportunity costs subtract from the satisfaction we get out of what we choose , even when what we choose is terrific .
and the more options there are to consider , the more attractive features of these options are going to be reflected by us as opportunity costs .
here 's another example .
now this cartoon makes a lot of points .
it makes points about living in the moment as well , and probably about doing things slowly .
but one point it makes is that whenever you 're choosing one thing , you 're choosing not to do other things .
and those other things may have lots of attractive features , and it 's going to make what you 're doing less attractive .
this hit me when i went to replace my jeans .
i wear jeans almost all the time .
and there was a time when jeans came in one flavor , and you bought them , and they fit like crap , and they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if you wore them long enough and washed them enough times , they started to feel ok .
