it 's not impossible , but it 's not a very easy thing .
in each of these five paths , we need at least a hundred people .
and a lot of them , you 'll look at and say , `` they 're crazy . '' that 's good .
and , i think , here in the ted group , we have many people who are already pursuing this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar that has some great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla 's investing in dozens of companies that are doing great things and have interesting possibilities , and i 'm trying to help back that .
nathan myhrvold and i actually are backing a company that , perhaps surprisingly , is actually taking the nuclear approach .
there are some innovations in nuclear : modular , liquid .
and innovation really stopped in this industry quite some ago , so the idea that there 's some good ideas laying around is not all that surprising .
the idea of terrapower is that , instead of burning a part of uranium -- the one percent , which is the u235 -- we decided , `` let 's burn the 99 percent , the u238 . ''
it is kind of a crazy idea .
in fact , people had talked about it for a long time , but they could never simulate properly whether it would work or not , and so it 's through the advent of modern supercomputers that now you can simulate and see that , yes , with the right material 's approach , this looks like it would work .
and , because you 're burning that 99 percent , you have greatly improved cost profile .
you actually burn up the waste , and you can actually use as fuel all the leftover waste from today 's reactors .
so , instead of worrying about them , you just take that . it 's a great thing .
it breathes this uranium as it goes along , so it 's kind of like a candle .
you can see it 's a log there , often referred to as a traveling wave reactor .
in terms of fuel , this really solves the problem .
i 've got a picture here of a place in kentucky .
this is the leftover , the 99 percent , where they 've taken out the part they burn now , so it 's called depleted uranium .
that would power the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and , simply by filtering seawater in an inexpensive process , you 'd have enough fuel for the entire lifetime of the rest of the planet .
so , you know , it 's got lots of challenges ahead , but it is an example of the many hundreds and hundreds of ideas that we need to move forward .
so let 's think : how should we measure ourselves ?
what should our report card look like ?
well , let 's go out to where we really need to get , and then look at the intermediate .
for 2050 , you 've heard many people talk about this 80 percent reduction .
that really is very important , that we get there .
and that 20 percent will be used up by things going on in poor countries , still some agriculture , hopefully we will have cleaned up forestry , cement .
so , to get to that 80 percent , the developed countries , including countries like china , will have had to switch their electricity generation altogether .
so , the other grade is : are we deploying this zero-emission technology , have we deployed it in all the developed countries and we 're in the process of getting it elsewhere ?
that 's super important .
that 's a key element of making that report card .
so , backing up from there , what should the 2020 report card look like ?
well , again , it should have the two elements .
we should go through these efficiency measures to start getting reductions : the less we emit , the less that sum will be of co2 , and , therefore , the less the temperature .
but in some ways , the grade we get there , doing things that do n't get us all the way to the big reductions , is only equally , or maybe even slightly less , important than the other , which is the piece of innovation on these breakthroughs .
these breakthroughs , we need to move those at full speed , and we can measure that in terms of companies , pilot projects , regulatory things that have been changed .
there 's a lot of great books that have been written about this .
the al gore book , `` our choice '' and the david mckay book , `` sustainable energy without the hot air . ''
they really go through it and create a framework that this can be discussed broadly , because we need broad backing for this .
there 's a lot that has to come together .
so this is a wish .
it 's a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you gave me only one wish for the next 50 years -- i could pick who 's president , i could pick a vaccine , which is something i love , or i could pick that this thing that 's half the cost with no co2 gets invented -- this is the wish i would pick .
this is the one with the greatest impact .
if we do n't get this wish , the division between the people who think short term and long term will be terrible , between the u.s. and china , between poor countries and rich , and most of all the lives of those two billion will be far worse .
so , what do we have to do ?
what am i appealing to you to step forward and drive ?
we need to go for more research funding .
when countries get together in places like copenhagen , they should n't just discuss the co2 .
they should discuss this innovation agenda , and you 'd be stunned at the ridiculously low levels of spending on these innovative approaches .
we do need the market incentives -- co2 tax , cap and trade -- something that gets that price signal out there .
we need to get the message out .
we need to have this dialogue be a more rational , more understandable dialogue , including the steps that the government takes .
this is an important wish , but it is one i think we can achieve .
thank you . thank you .
thank you . so to understand more about terrapower , right -- i mean , first of all , can you give a sense of what scale of investment this is ?
bil gates : to actually do the software , buy the supercomputer , hire all the great scientists , which we 've done , that 's only tens of millions , and even once we test our materials out in a russian reactor to make sure that our materials work properly , then you 'll only be up in the hundreds of millions .
the tough thing is building the pilot reactor ; finding the several billion , finding the regulator , the location that will actually build the first one of these .
once you get the first one built , if it works as advertised , then it 's just clear as day , because the economics , the energy density , are so different than nuclear as we know it .
and so , to understand it right , this involves building deep into the ground almost like a vertical kind of column of nuclear fuel , of this sort of spent uranium , and then the process starts at the top and kind of works down ?
bg : that 's right . today , you 're always refueling the reactor , so you have lots of people and lots of controls that can go wrong : that thing where you 're opening it up and moving things in and out , that 's not good .
so , if you have very cheap fuel that you can put 60 years in -- just think of it as a log -- put it down and not have those same complexities .
and it just sits there and burns for the 60 years , and then it 's done .
it 's a nuclear power plant that is its own waste disposal solution .
bg : yeah . well , what happens with the waste , you can let it sit there -- there 's a lot less waste under this approach -- then you can actually take that , and put it into another one and burn that .
and we start off actually by taking the waste that exists today , that 's sitting in these cooling pools or dry casking by reactors -- that 's our fuel to begin with .
so , the thing that 's been a problem from those reactors is actually what gets fed into ours , and you 're reducing the volume of the waste quite dramatically as you 're going through this process .
i mean , you 're talking to different people around the world about the possibilities here .
where is there most interest in actually doing something with this ?
bg : well , we have n't picked a particular place , and there 's all these interesting disclosure rules about anything that 's called `` nuclear , '' so we 've got a lot of interest , that people from the company have been in russia , india , china -- i 've been back seeing the secretary of energy here , talking about how this fits into the energy agenda .
so i 'm optimistic . you know , the french and japanese have done some work .
this is a variant on something that has been done .
it 's an important advance , but it 's like a fast reactor , and a lot of countries have built them , so anybody who 's done a fast reactor is a candidate to be where the first one gets built .
so , in your mind , timescale and likelihood of actually taking something like this live ?
bg : well , we need -- for one of these high-scale , electro-generation things that 's very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to deploy .
that 's sort of the deadline that the environmental models have shown us that we have to meet .
and , you know , terrapower , if things go well -- which is wishing for a lot -- could easily meet that .
and there are , fortunately now , dozens of companies -- we need it to be hundreds -- who , likewise , if their science goes well , if the funding for their pilot plants goes well , that they can compete for this .
and it 's best if multiple succeed , because then you could use a mix of these things .
we certainly need one to succeed .
in terms of big-scale possible game changes , is this the biggest that you 're aware of out there ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
it would have been , even without the environmental constraint , but the environmental constraint just makes it so much greater .
in the nuclear space , there are other innovators .
you know , we do n't know their work as well as we know this one , but the modular people , that 's a different approach .
there 's a liquid-type reactor , which seems a little hard , but maybe they say that about us .
and so , there are different ones , but the beauty of this is a molecule of uranium has a million times as much energy as a molecule of , say , coal , and so -- if you can deal with the negatives , which are essentially the radiation -- the footprint and cost , the potential , in terms of effect on land and various things , is almost in a class of its own .
if this does n't work , then what ?
do we have to start taking emergency measures to try and keep the temperature of the earth stable ?
bg : if you get into that situation , it 's like if you 've been over-eating , and you 're about to have a heart attack : then where do you go ? you may need heart surgery or something .
there is a line of research on what 's called geoengineering , which are various techniques that would delay the heating to buy us 20 or 30 years to get our act together .
now , that 's just an insurance policy .
you hope you do n't need to do that .
some people say you should n't even work on the insurance policy because it might make you lazy , that you 'll keep eating because you know heart surgery will be there to save you .
i 'm not sure that 's wise , given the importance of the problem , but there 's now the geoengineering discussion about -- should that be in the back pocket in case things happen faster , or this innovation goes a lot slower than we expect ?
climate skeptics : if you had a sentence or two to say to them , how might you persuade them that they 're wrong ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics come in different camps .
the ones who make scientific arguments are very few .
are they saying that there 's negative feedback effects that have to do with clouds that offset things ?
there are very , very few things that they can even say there 's a chance in a million of those things .
the main problem we have here , it 's kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so , when you have all sorts of urgent problems , the idea of taking pain now that has to do with a gain later , and a somewhat uncertain pain thing -- in fact , the ipcc report , that 's not necessarily the worst case , and there are people in the rich world who look at ipcc and say , `` ok , that is n't that big of a deal . ''
the fact is it 's that uncertain part that should move us towards this .
but my dream here is that , if you can make it economic , and meet the co2 constraints , then the skeptics say , `` ok , i do n't care that it does n't put out co2 , i kind of wish it did put out co2 , but i guess i 'll accept it because it 's cheaper than what 's come before . ''
and so , that would be your response to the bjorn lomborg argument , that basically if you spend all this energy trying to solve the co2 problem , it 's going to take away all your other goals of trying to rid the world of poverty and malaria and so forth , it 's a stupid waste of the earth 's resources to put money towards that when there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on the r&d piece -- say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than it is right now -- it 's not that dramatic .
it should n't take away from other things .
the thing you get into big money on , and this , reasonable people can disagree , is when you have something that 's non-economic and you 're trying to fund that -- that , to me , mostly is a waste .
unless you 're very close and you 're just funding the learning curve and it 's going to get very cheap , i believe we should try more things that have a potential to be far less expensive .
if the trade-off you get into is , `` let 's make energy super expensive , '' then the rich can afford that .
i mean , all of us here could pay five times as much for our energy and not change our lifestyle .
the disaster is for that two billion .
and even lomborg has changed .
his shtick now is , `` why is n't the r&d getting more discussed ? ''
he 's still , because of his earlier stuff , still associated with the skeptic camp , but he 's realized that 's a pretty lonely camp , and so , he 's making the r&d point .
and so there is a thread of something that i think is appropriate .
the r&d piece , it 's crazy how little it 's funded .
well bill , i suspect i speak on the behalf of most people here to say i really hope your wish comes true . thank you so much .
bg : thank you .
let 's pretend right here we have a machine .
a big machine , a cool , ted-ish machine , and it 's a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to get into it .
and you can go backwards , you can go forwards ; you can not stay where you are .
and i wonder what you 'd choose , because i 've been asking my friends this question a lot lately and they all want to go back .
i do n't know . they want to go back before there were automobiles or twitter or `` american idol . ''
i do n't know .
i 'm convinced that there 's some sort of pull to nostalgia , to wishful thinking .
and i understand that .
i 'm not part of that crowd , i have to say .
i do n't want to go back , and it 's not because i 'm adventurous .
it 's because possibilities on this planet , they do n't go back , they go forward .
so i want to get in the machine , and i want to go forward .
this is the greatest time there 's ever been on this planet by any measure that you wish to choose : health , wealth , mobility , opportunity , declining rates of disease ...
my great-grandparents died , all of them , by the time they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed that number to 70 .
my parents are closing in on 80 .
so there better be a nine at the beginning of my death number .
but it 's not even about people like us , because this is a bigger deal than that .
a kid born in new delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world did 100 years ago .
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
it reshaped the demography of the globe in a way that no war ever has .
does anyone even know what those things are ?
and to my mind , the scientific method -- trying stuff out , seeing if it works , changing it when it does n't -- is one of the great accomplishments of humanity .
and one of them is that despite all our accomplishments , a billion people go to bed hungry in this world every day .
that number 's rising , and it 's rising really rapidly , and it 's disgraceful .
and not only that , we 've used our imagination to thoroughly trash this globe .
potable water , arable land , rainforests , oil , gas : they 're going away , and they 're going away soon , and unless we innovate our way out of this mess , we 're going away too .
so the question is : can we do that ? and i think we can .
i think it 's clear that we can make food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world with energy that does n't also destroy it .
but here 's the thing that keeps me up at night -- one of the things that keeps me up at night : we 've never needed progress in science more than we need it right now . never .
and we 've also never been in a position to deploy it properly in the way that we can today .
we 're on the verge of amazing , amazing events in many fields , and yet i actually think we 'd have to go back hundreds , 300 years , before the enlightenment , to find a time when we battled progress , when we fought about these things more vigorously , on more fronts , than we do now .
people wrap themselves in their beliefs , and they do it so tightly that you ca n't set them free .
and , listen , everyone 's entitled to their opinion ; they 're even entitled to their opinion about progress .
but you know what you 're not entitled to ?
you 're not entitled to your own facts . sorry , you 're not .
about a decade ago , i wrote a story about vaccines for the new yorker . a little story .
and i was amazed to find opposition : opposition to what is , after all , the most effective public health measure in human history .
and soon after that , i wrote a story about genetically engineered food .
same thing , only bigger .
so i wrote a story about that too , and i could n't understand why people thought this was `` frankenfoods , '' why they thought moving molecules around in a specific , rather than a haphazard way , was trespassing on nature 's ground .
but , you know , i do what i do . i wrote the story , i moved on .
we type , we file , we go to dinner . it 's fine .
but these stories bothered me , and i could n't figure out why , and eventually i did .
and that 's because those fanatics that were driving me crazy were n't actually fanatics at all .
they were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
we 're at a point in this world where we do n't have the same relationship to progress that we used to .
we talk about it ambivalently .
