you know , one of the intense pleasures of travel and one of the delights of ethnographic research is the opportunity to live amongst those who have not forgotten the old ways , who still feel their past in the wind , touch it in stones polished by rain , taste it in the bitter leaves of plants .
just to know that jaguar shamans still journey beyond the milky way , or the myths of the inuit elders still resonate with meaning , or that in the himalaya , the buddhists still pursue the breath of the dharma , is to really remember the central revelation of anthropology , and that is the idea that the world in which we live does not exist in some absolute sense , but is just one model of reality , the consequence of one particular set of adaptive choices that our lineage made , albeit successfully , many generations ago .
and of course , we all share the same adaptive imperatives .
we 're all born . we all bring our children into the world .
we go through initiation rites .
we have to deal with the inexorable separation of death , so it should n't surprise us that we all sing , we all dance , we all have art .
but what 's interesting is the unique cadence of the song , the rhythm of the dance in every culture .
and whether it is the penan in the forests of borneo , or the voodoo acolytes in haiti , or the warriors in the kaisut desert of northern kenya , the curandero in the mountains of the andes , or a caravanserai in the middle of the sahara -- this is incidentally the fellow that i traveled into the desert with a month ago -- or indeed a yak herder in the slopes of qomolangma , everest , the goddess mother of the world .
all of these peoples teach us that there are other ways of being , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting yourself in the earth .
and this is an idea , if you think about it , can only fill you with hope .
now , together the myriad cultures of the world make up a web of spiritual life and cultural life that envelops the planet , and is as important to the well-being of the planet as indeed is the biological web of life that you know as a biosphere .
and you might think of this cultural web of life as being an ethnosphere , and you might define the ethnosphere as being the sum total of all thoughts and dreams , myths , ideas , inspirations , intuitions brought into being by the human imagination since the dawn of consciousness .
the ethnosphere is humanity 's great legacy .
it 's the symbol of all that we are and all that we can be as an astonishingly inquisitive species .
and just as the biosphere has been severely eroded , so too is the ethnosphere -- and , if anything , at a far greater rate .
no biologists , for example , would dare suggest that 50 percent of all species or more have been or are on the brink of extinction because it simply is not true , and yet that -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the realm of biological diversity -- scarcely approaches what we know to be the most optimistic scenario in the realm of cultural diversity .
and the great indicator of that , of course , is language loss .
when each of you in this room were born , there were 6,000 languages spoken on the planet .
now , a language is not just a body of vocabulary or a set of grammatical rules .
a language is a flash of the human spirit .
it 's a vehicle through which the soul of each particular culture comes into the material world .
every language is an old-growth forest of the mind , a watershed , a thought , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
and of those 6,000 languages , as we sit here today in monterey , fully half are no longer being whispered into the ears of children .
they 're no longer being taught to babies , which means , effectively , unless something changes , they 're already dead .
what could be more lonely than to be enveloped in silence , to be the last of your people to speak your language , to have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors or anticipate the promise of the children ?
and yet , that dreadful fate is indeed the plight of somebody somewhere on earth roughly every two weeks , because every two weeks , some elder dies and carries with him into the grave the last syllables of an ancient tongue .
and i know there 's some of you who say , `` well , would n't it be better , would n't the world be a better place if we all just spoke one language ? '' and i say , `` great , let 's make that language yoruba . let 's make it cantonese .
let 's make it kogi . ''
and you 'll suddenly discover what it would be like to be unable to speak your own language .
and so , what i 'd like to do with you today is sort of take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a brief journey through the ethnosphere , to try to begin to give you a sense of what in fact is being lost .
now , there are many of us who sort of forget that when i say `` different ways of being , '' i really do mean different ways of being .
take , for example , this child of a barasana in the northwest amazon , the people of the anaconda who believe that mythologically they came up the milk river from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
now , this is a people who cognitively do not distinguish the color blue from the color green because the canopy of the heavens is equated to the canopy of the forest upon which the people depend .
they have a curious language and marriage rule which is called `` linguistic exogamy : '' you must marry someone who speaks a different language .
and this is all rooted in the mythological past , yet the curious thing is in these long houses , where there are six or seven languages spoken because of intermarriage , you never hear anyone practicing a language .
they simply listen and then begin to speak .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i ever lived with , the waorani of northeastern ecuador , an astonishing people first contacted peacefully in 1958 .
in 1957 , five missionaries attempted contact and made a critical mistake .
they dropped from the air 8 x 10 glossy photographs of themselves in what we would say to be friendly gestures , forgetting that these people of the rainforest had never seen anything two-dimensional in their lives .
they picked up these photographs from the forest floor , tried to look behind the face to find the form or the figure , found nothing , and concluded that these were calling cards from the devil , so they speared the five missionaries to death .
but the waorani did n't just spear outsiders .
they speared each other .
54 percent of their mortality was due to them spearing each other .
we traced genealogies back eight generations , and we found two instances of natural death and when we pressured the people a little bit about it , they admitted that one of the fellows had gotten so old that he died getting old , so we speared him anyway .
but at the same time they had a perspicacious knowledge of the forest that was astonishing .
their hunters could smell animal urine at 40 paces and tell you what species left it behind .
in the early '80s , i had a really astonishing assignment when i was asked by my professor at harvard if i was interested in going down to haiti , infiltrating the secret societies which were the foundation of duvalier 's strength and tonton macoutes , and securing the poison used to make zombies .
in order to make sense out of sensation , of course , i had to understand something about this remarkable faith of vodoun . and voodoo is not a black magic cult .
on the contrary , it 's a complex metaphysical worldview .
it 's interesting .
if i asked you to name the great religions of the world , what would you say ?
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
there 's always one continent left out , the assumption being that sub-saharan africa had no religious beliefs . well , of course , they did and voodoo is simply the distillation of these very profound religious ideas that came over during the tragic diaspora of the slavery era .
but , what makes voodoo so interesting is that it 's this living relationship between the living and the dead .
so , the living give birth to the spirits .
the spirits can be invoked from beneath the great water , responding to the rhythm of the dance to momentarily displace the soul of the living , so that for that brief shining moment , the acolyte becomes the god .
that 's why the voodooists like to say that `` you white people go to church and speak about god .
we dance in the temple and become god . ''
and because you are possessed , you are taken by the spirit -- how can you be harmed ?
so you see these astonishing demonstrations : voodoo acolytes in a state of trance handling burning embers with impunity , a rather astonishing demonstration of the ability of the mind to affect the body that bears it when catalyzed in the state of extreme excitation .
now , of all the peoples that i 've ever been with , the most extraordinary are the kogi of the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia .
descendants of the ancient tairona civilization which once carpeted the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , in the wake of the conquest , these people retreated into an isolated volcanic massif that soars above the caribbean coastal plain .
in a bloodstained continent , these people alone were never conquered by the spanish .
to this day , they remain ruled by a ritual priesthood but the training for the priesthood is rather extraordinary .
the young acolytes are taken away from their families at the age of three and four , sequestered in a shadowy world of darkness in stone huts at the base of glaciers for 18 years : two nine-year periods deliberately chosen to mimic the nine months of gestation they spend in their natural mother 's womb ; now they are metaphorically in the womb of the great mother .
and for this entire time , they are inculturated into the values of their society , values that maintain the proposition that their prayers and their prayers alone maintain the cosmic -- or we might say the ecological -- balance .
and at the end of this amazing initiation , one day they 're suddenly taken out and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , they see a sunrise . and in that crystal moment of awareness of first light as the sun begins to bathe the slopes of the stunningly beautiful landscape , suddenly everything they have learned in the abstract is affirmed in stunning glory . and the priest steps back and says , `` you see ? it 's really as i 've told you .
it is that beautiful . it is yours to protect . ''
they call themselves the `` elder brothers '' and they say we , who are the younger brothers , are the ones responsible for destroying the world .
now , this level of intuition becomes very important .
whenever we think of indigenous people and landscape , we either invoke rousseau and the old canard of the `` noble savage , '' which is an idea racist in its simplicity , or alternatively , we invoke thoreau and say these people are closer to the earth than we are .
well , indigenous people are neither sentimental nor weakened by nostalgia .
there 's not a lot of room for either in the malarial swamps of the asmat or in the chilling winds of tibet , but they have , nevertheless , through time and ritual , forged a traditional mystique of the earth that is based not on the idea of being self-consciously close to it , but on a far subtler intuition : the idea that the earth itself can only exist because it is breathed into being by human consciousness .
now , what does that mean ?
it means that a young kid from the andes who 's raised to believe that that mountain is an apu spirit that will direct his or her destiny will be a profoundly different human being and have a different relationship to that resource or that place than a young kid from montana raised to believe that a mountain is a pile of rock ready to be mined .
whether it 's the abode of a spirit or a pile of ore is irrelevant .
what 's interesting is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the natural world .
i was raised in the forests of british columbia to believe those forests existed to be cut .
that made me a different human being than my friends amongst the kwagiulth who believe that those forests were the abode of huxwhukw and the crooked beak of heaven and the cannibal spirits that dwelled at the north end of the world , spirits they would have to engage during their hamatsa initiation .
now , if you begin to look at the idea that these cultures could create different realities , you could begin to understand some of their extraordinary discoveries . take this plant here .
it 's a photograph i took in the northwest amazon just last april .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the most powerful psychoactive preparation of the shaman 's repertoire .
what makes ayahuasca fascinating is not the sheer pharmacological potential of this preparation , but the elaboration of it . it 's made really of two different sources : on the one hand , this woody liana which has in it a series of beta-carbolines , harmine , harmaline , mildly hallucinogenic -- to take the vine alone is rather to have sort of blue hazy smoke drift across your consciousness -- but it 's mixed with the leaves of a shrub in the coffee family called psychotria viridis .
this plant had in it some very powerful tryptamines , very close to brain serotonin , dimethyltryptamine , 5-methoxydimethyltryptamine .
if you 've ever seen the yanomami blowing that snuff up their noses , that substance they make from a different set of species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamine .
to have that powder blown up your nose is rather like being shot out of a rifle barrel lined with baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
it does n't create the distortion of reality ; it creates the dissolution of reality .
in fact , i used to argue with my professor , richard evan shultes -- who is a man who sparked the psychedelic era with his discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 1930s -- i used to argue that you could n't classify these tryptamines as hallucinogenic because by the time you 're under the effects there 's no one home anymore to experience a hallucination .
but the thing about tryptamines is they can not be taken orally because they 're denatured by an enzyme found naturally in the human gut called monoamine oxidase .
they can only be taken orally if taken in conjunction with some other chemical that denatures the mao .
now , the fascinating things are that the beta-carbolines found within that liana are mao inhibitors of the precise sort necessary to potentiate the tryptamine . so you ask yourself a question .
how , in a flora of 80,000 species of vascular plants , do these people find these two morphologically unrelated plants that when combined in this way , created a kind of biochemical version of the whole being greater than the sum of the parts ?
well , we use that great euphemism , `` trial and error , '' which is exposed to be meaningless .
but you ask the indians , and they say , `` the plants talk to us . ''
well , what does that mean ?
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , all of which they distinguish a great distance in the forest , all of which are referable to our eye as one species .
and then you ask them how they establish their taxonomy and they say , `` i thought you knew something about plants .
i mean , do n't you know anything ? '' and i said , `` no . ''
well , it turns out you take each of the 17 varieties in the night of a full moon , and it sings to you in a different key .
now , that 's not going to get you a ph.d. at harvard , but it 's a lot more interesting than counting stamens .
for some time i have been interested in the placebo effect , which might seem like an odd thing for a magician to be interested in , unless you think of it in the terms that i do , which is , `` something fake is believed in enough by somebody that it becomes something real . ''
in other words , sugar pills have a measurable effect in certain kinds of studies , the placebo effect , just because the person thinks that what 's happening to them is a pharmaceutical or some sort of a -- for pain management , for example , if they believe it enough there is a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
something fake becomes something real because of someone 's perception of it .
in order for us to understand each other , i want to start by showing you a rudimentary , very simple magic trick .
and i 'm going to show you how it works . this is a trick that 's been in every children 's magic book since at least the 1950s .
i learned it myself from cub scout magic in the 1970s .
i 'll do it for you , and then i 'll explain it .
and then i 'll explain why i explained it .
so , here 's what happens .
the knife , which you can examine ; my hand , which you could examine .
i 'm just going to hold the knife in my fist like this .
i 'll get my sleeve back .
and to make sure nothing goes up or down my sleeve i 'm just going to squeeze my wrist right here .
that way you can see that at no time can anything travel , as long as i 'm squeezing there nothing can go up or down my sleeve .
and the object of this is quite simple .
i 'm going to open my hand , and hopefully , if all is well , my pure animal magnetism will hold the knife .
in fact it 's held so tightly in place that i can shake it , and the knife does not come off .
nothing goes up or down my sleeve , no trickery . and you can examine everything .
ta-da !
so , this is a trick that i often teach to young children that are interested in magic , because you can learn a great deal about deception by studying this very -- even though it 's a very simple trick methodologically .
probably many of you in the room know this trick .
what happens is this .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say i 'm going to grab hold of my wrist to make sure nothing goes up or down my sleeve , that is a lie .
the reason i 'm holding onto my wrist is because that 's actually the secret of the illusion .
in a moment when my hand moves from facing you to being away from you , this finger right here , my index finger is just going to shift from where it is , to a position pointing out like this .
nice one .
someone who did n't have a childhood is out there .
so , it goes like this , from here , right .
and as i move around my finger shifts .
and we could talk about why this is deceptive , why you do n't notice there are only three fingers down here , because the mind , and the way it processes information , it does n't count , one , two , three . it groups them .
but that 's not really what this is about . right ? and then i open my hand up .
obviously it 's clinging there , not by animal magnetism , but by chicanery , my index finger being there .
and then when i close my finger , same thing , as i move back , this motion kind of covers the moving back of my finger .
i take this hand away . you give the knife out .
there is a trick you can do for your friends and neighbors . thanks .
now , what does that have to do with the placebo effect ?
i read a study a year or so ago that really blew my mind wide open .
i 'm not a doctor or a researcher , so this , to me , was an astonishing thing .
it turns out that if you administer a placebo in the form of a white pill , that 's like aspirin shaped -- it 's just a round white pill -- it has some certain measurable effect .
but if you change the form that you give the placebo in , like you make a smaller pill , and color it blue , and stamp a letter into it , it is actually measurably more effective .
even though neither one of these things has any pharmaceutical -- they 're sugar pills .
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really flipped me out .
turns out though , that that 's not even where it stops .
if you have capsules , they 're more effective than tablets in any form .
a colored capsule , that 's yellow on one end and red on the other is better than a white capsule .
dosage has something to do with this .
one pill twice a day is not as good at three pills -- i do n't remember the statistic now . sorry .
but the point is ...
... these dosages have something to do with it .
and the form has something to do with it .
and if you want the ultimate in placebo , you 've go to the needle .
right ? a syringe with some inert -- a couple ccs of some inert something , and you inject this into a patient ...
well this is such a powerful image in their mind , it 's so much stronger than the white pill .
it 's a really , this graph , well i 'll show it to you some other time when we have slides .
the point is the white pill is not as good as the blue pill is not as good as the capsule is not as good as the needle .
and none of it has any real pharmaceutical quality , it 's only your belief that makes it real in your body and makes a stronger effect .
i wanted to see if i could take that idea and apply it to a magic trick .
and take something that is obviously a fake trick and make it seem real .
and we know from that study that when you want reality , you go to the needle .
this is a seven-inch hatpin . it 's very , very sharp , and i 'm going to just sterilize it a tiny bit .
this is really my flesh . this is not damian 's special-grown flesh .
that 's my skin right there . this is not a hollywood special effect .
i 'm going to pierce my skin and run this needle through to the other side .
if you 're queasy -- if you faint easily -- i was doing this for some friends in the hotel room last night , and some people that i did n't know , and one woman almost passed out .
so , i suggest if you get queasy easy that you look away for about the next 30 -- in fact , you know what , i 'll do the first bad part behind it .
you 'll get to see , you can look away too if you 'd like to .
so , here is what happens , right here , the beginning of my flesh at the lower part of my arm i just make a little pierce .
i 'm sorry , man . am i freaking you out ?
ok , and then just through my skin a tiny bit , and then out the other side like this .
now , essentially we 're in the same position we were in with the knife trick .
sort of .
but you ca n't count my fingers right now can you ?
so , let me show them to you . that 's one , two three , four , five .
yes , well ...
i know what people think when they see this .
they go , `` well , he 's certainly not dumb enough to stab himself through the skin to entertain us for a few minutes .
so , let me give you a little peek .
how 's that look out there ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and the people in the back go , `` ok , i did n't really see that . ''
people in the satellite room are starting to move in now .
let me give you good close look at this .
that really is my skin . that is not a hollywood special effect .
that 's my flesh , and i can twist that around .
i 'm sorry . if you 're getting queasy , look away , do n't look at the thing .
people in the back or people on video years from now watching this will go , `` well yeah , that looks kind of neat in some sort of effect there , but if it were real he would be -- see there 's a hole there and a hole there , if it were real he would be bleeding .
well let me work up some blood for you .
yes , there it is .
normally now , i would take the needle out .
i would clean off my arm , and i would show you that there are no wounds .
but i think in this context and with the idea of taking something fake and making it into something real , i 'm just going to leave it there , and walk off the stage .
i will be seeing you several times over the next few days .
i hope you 're looking forward to that . thank you very much .
i want to start out by asking you to think back to when you were a kid , playing with blocks .
as you figured out how to reach out and grasp , pick them up and move them around , you were actually learning how to think and solve problems by understanding and manipulating spatial relationships .
spatial reasoning is deeply connected to how we understand a lot of the world around us .
so , as a computer scientist inspired by this utility of our interactions with physical objects -- along with my adviser pattie , and my collaborator jeevan kalanithi -- i started to wonder -- what if when we used a computer , instead of having this one mouse cursor that was a like a digital fingertip moving around a flat desktop , what if we could reach in with both hands and grasp information physically , arranging it the way we wanted ?
this question was so compelling that we decided to explore the answer , by building siftables .
in a nutshell , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they 're able to be moved around by hand , they can sense each other , they can sense their motion , and they have a screen and a wireless radio .
most importantly , they 're physical , so like the blocks , you can move them just by reaching out and grasping .
and siftables are an example of a new ecosystem of tools for manipulating digital information .
and as these tools become more physical , more aware of their motion , aware of each other , and aware of the nuance of how we move them , we can start to explore some new and fun interaction styles .
so , i 'm going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configured to show video , and if i tilt it in one direction , it 'll roll the video this way ; if i tilt it the other way it rolls it backwards .
and these interactive portraits are aware of each other .
so if i put them next to each other , they get interested .
if they get surrounded , they notice that too , they might get a little flustered .
and they can also sense their motion and tilt .
one of the interesting implications on interaction , we started to realize , was that we could use everyday gestures on data , like pouring a color the way we might pour a liquid .
so in this case , we 've got three siftables configured to be paint buckets and i can use them to pour color into that central one , where they get mixed .
if we overshoot , we can pour a little bit back .
there are also some neat possibilities for education , like language , math and logic games where we want to give people the ability to try things quickly , and view the results immediately .
so here i 'm -- this is a fibonacci sequence that i 'm making with a simple equation program .
here we have a word game that 's kind of like a mash-up between scrabble and boggle .
basically , in every round you get a randomly assigned letter on each siftable , and as you try to make words it checks against a dictionary .
then , after about 30 seconds , it reshuffles , and you have a new set of letters and new possibilities to try .
so these are some kids that came on a field trip to the media lab , and i managed to get them to try it out , and shoot a video .
they really loved it .
and , one of the interesting things about this kind of application is that you do n't have to give people many instructions .
all you have to say is , `` make words , '' and they know exactly what to do .
so here 's another few people trying it out .
that 's our youngest beta tester , down there on the right .
turns out , all he wanted to do was to stack the siftables up .
so to him , they were just blocks .
now , this is an interactive cartoon application .
and we wanted to build a learning tool for language learners .
and this is felix , actually .
and he can bring new characters into the scene , just by lifting the siftables off the table that have that character shown on them .
here , he 's bringing the sun out .
the sun is rising .
now he 's brought a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good job ! yeah !
so by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other he can make the characters interact -- woof !
inventing his own narrative .
hello !
it 's an open-ended story , and he gets to decide how it unfolds .
fly away , cat .
so , the last example i have time to show you today is a music sequencing and live performance tool that we 've built recently , in which siftables act as sounds like lead , bass and drums .
each of these has four different variations , you get to choose which one you want to use .
and you can inject these sounds into a sequence that you can assemble into the pattern that you want .
and you inject it by just bumping up the sound siftable against a sequence siftable .
there are effects that you can control live , like reverb and filter .
you attach it to a particular sound and then tilt to adjust it .
and then , overall effects like tempo and volume that apply to the entire sequence .
so let 's have a look .
we 'll start by putting a lead into two sequence siftables , arrange them into a series , extend it , add a little more lead .
now i put a bass line in .
now i 'll put some percussion in .
and now i 'll attach the filter to the drums , so i can control the effect live .
i can speed up the whole sequence by tilting the tempo one way or the other .
and now i 'll attach the filter to the bass for some more expression .
i can rearrange the sequence while it plays .
so i do n't have to plan it out in advance , but i can improvise , making it longer or shorter as i go .
and now , finally , i can fade the whole sequence out using the volume siftable , tilted to the left .
so , as you can see , my passion is for making new human-computer interfaces that are a better match to the ways our brains and bodies work .
and today , i had time to show you one point in this new design space , and a few of the possibilities that we 're working to bring out of the laboratory .
so the thought i want to leave you with is that we 're on the cusp of this new generation of tools for interacting with digital media that are going to bring information into our world on our terms .
i look forward to talking with all of you .
one day , los angeles times columnist steve lopez was walking along the streets of downtown los angeles when he heard beautiful music .
and the source was a man , an african-american man , charming , rugged , homeless , playing a violin that only had two strings .
and i 'm telling a story that many of you know , because steve 's columns became the basis for a book , which was turned into a movie , with robert downey jr. acting as steve lopez , and jamie foxx as nathaniel anthony ayers , the juilliard-trained double bassist whose promising career was cut short by a tragic affliction with paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel dropped out of juilliard , he suffered a complete breakdown , and 30 years later he was living homeless on the streets of skid row in downtown los angeles .
i encourage all of you to read steve 's book or to watch the movie to understand not only the beautiful bond that formed between these two men , but how music helped shape that bond , and ultimately was instrumental -- if you 'll pardon the pun -- in helping nathaniel get off the streets .
i met mr. ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a performance of beethoven 's first and fourth symphonies , and came backstage and introduced himself .
he was speaking in a very jovial and gregarious way about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers were never going to make the world series , all because of the treacherous first violin passage work in the last movement of beethoven 's fourth symphony .
and we got talking about music , and i got an email from steve a few days later saying that nathaniel was interested in a violin lesson with me .
now , i should mention that nathaniel refuses treatment because when he was treated it was with shock therapy and thorazine and handcuffs , and that scar has stayed with him for his entire life .
but as a result now , he is prone to these schizophrenic episodes , the worst of which can manifest themselves as him exploding and then disappearing for days , wandering the streets of skid row , exposed to its horrors , with the torment of his own mind unleashed upon him .
and nathaniel was in such a state of agitation when we started our first lesson at walt disney concert hall -- he had a kind of manic glint in his eyes , he was lost .
and he was talking about invisible demons and smoke , and how someone was poisoning him in his sleep .
and i was afraid , not for myself , but i was afraid that i was going to lose him , that he was going to sink into one of his states , and that i would ruin his relationship with the violin if i started talking about scales and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic violin pedagogy .
so , i just started playing .
and i played the first movement of the beethoven violin concerto .
and as i played , i understood that there was a profound change occurring in nathaniel 's eyes .
it was as if he was in the grip of some invisible pharmaceutical , a chemical reaction , for which my playing the music was its catalyst .
and nathaniel 's manic rage was transformed into understanding , a quiet curiosity and grace .
and in a miracle , he lifted his own violin and he started playing , by ear , certain snippets of violin concertos which he then asked me to complete -- mendelssohn , tchaikovsky , sibelius .
and we started talking about music , from bach to beethoven and brahms , bruckner , all the b 's , from bartok , all the way up to esa-pekka salonen .
and i understood that he not only had an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he related to this music at a personal level .
he spoke about it with the kind of passion and understanding that i share with my colleagues in the los angeles philharmonic .
and through playing music and talking about music , this man had transformed from the paranoid , disturbed man that had just come from walking the streets of downtown los angeles to the charming , erudite , brilliant , juilliard-trained musician .
music is medicine . music changes us .
and for nathaniel , music is sanity .
because music allows him to take his thoughts and delusions and shape them through his imagination and his creativity , into reality .
and that is an escape from his tormented state .
and i understood that this was the very essence of art .
this was the very reason why we made music , that we take something that exists within all of us at our very fundamental core , our emotions , and through our artistic lens , through our creativity , we 're able to shape those emotions into reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us and moves us , inspires and unites us .
and for nathaniel , music brought him back into a fold of friends .
the redemptive power of music brought him back into a family of musicians that understood him , that recognized his talents and respected him .
and i will always make music with nathaniel , whether we 're at walt disney concert hall or on skid row , because he reminds me why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you . thanks .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i 'm going to play something that i shamelessly stole from cellists .
so , please forgive me .
what i 'm going to show you first , as quickly as i can , is some foundational work , some new technology that we brought to microsoft as part of an acquisition almost exactly a year ago . this is seadragon , and it 's an environment in which you can either locally or remotely interact with vast amounts of visual data .
we 're looking at many , many gigabytes of digital photos here and kind of seamlessly and continuously zooming in , panning through the thing , rearranging it in any way we want .
and it does n't matter how much information we 're looking at , how big these collections are or how big the images are .
most of them are ordinary digital camera photos , but this one , for example , is a scan from the library of congress , and it 's in the 300 megapixel range .
it does n't make any difference because the only thing that ought to limit the performance of a system like this one is the number of pixels on your screen at any given moment . it 's also very flexible architecture .
this is an entire book , so this is an example of non-image data .
this is `` bleak house '' by dickens . every column is a chapter .
to prove to you that it 's really text , and not an image , we can do something like so , to really show that this is a real representation of the text ; it 's not a picture .
maybe this is a kind of an artificial way to read an e-book .
i would n't recommend it .
this is a more realistic case . this is an issue of the guardian .
every large image is the beginning of a section .
and this really gives you the joy and the good experience of reading the real paper version of a magazine or a newspaper , which is an inherently multi-scale kind of medium .
we 've also done a little something with the corner of this particular issue of the guardian .
we 've made up a fake ad that 's very high resolution -- much higher than you 'd be able to get in an ordinary ad -- and we 've embedded extra content .
if you want to see the features of this car , you can see it here .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
and this really gets at some of these ideas about really doing away with those limits on screen real estate .
we hope that this means no more pop-ups and other kind of rubbish like that -- should n't be necessary .
of course , mapping is one of those really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and this one i really wo n't spend any time on , except to say that we have things to contribute to this field as well .
but those are all the roads in the u.s.
superimposed on top of a nasa geospatial image .
so let 's pull up , now , something else .
this is actually live on the web now ; you can go check it out .
this is a project called photosynth , which really marries two different technologies .
one of them is seadragon and the other is some very beautiful computer vision research done by noah snavely , a graduate student at the university of washington , co-advised by steve seitz at u.w.
and rick szeliski at microsoft research . a very nice collaboration .
and so this is live on the web . it 's powered by seadragon .
you can see that when we kind of do these sorts of views , where we can dive through images and have this kind of multi-resolution experience .
but the spatial arrangement of the images here is actually meaningful .
the computer vision algorithms have registered these images together so that they correspond to the real space in which these shots -- all taken near grassi lakes in the canadian rockies -- all these shots were taken . so you see elements here of stabilized slide-show or panoramic imaging , and these things have all been related spatially .
i 'm not sure if i have time to show you any other environments .
there are some that are much more spatial .
i would like to jump straight to one of noah 's original data-sets -- and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we first got working in the summer -- to show you what i think is really the punch line behind this technology , the photosynth technology . and it 's not necessarily so apparent from looking at the environments that we 've put up on the website .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
this is a reconstruction of notre dame cathedral that was done entirely computationally from images scraped from flickr . you just type notre dame into flickr , and you get some pictures of guys in t-shirts , and of the campus and so on . and each of these orange cones represents an image that was discovered to belong to this model .
and so these are all flickr images , and they 've all been related spatially in this way .
and we can just navigate in this very simple way .
you know , i never thought that i 'd end up working at microsoft .
it 's very gratifying to have this kind of reception here .
i guess you can see this is lots of different types of cameras : it 's everything from cell phone cameras to professional slrs , quite a large number of them , stitched together in this environment .
and if i can , i 'll find some of the sort of weird ones .
so many of them are occluded by faces , and so on .
somewhere in here there are actually a series of photographs -- here we go .
this is actually a poster of notre dame that registered correctly .
we can dive in from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what the point here really is is that we can do things with the social environment . this is now taking data from everybody -- from the entire collective memory of , visually , of what the earth looks like -- and link all of that together .
all of those photos become linked together , and they make something emergent that 's greater than the sum of the parts .
you have a model that emerges of the entire earth .
think of this as the long tail to stephen lawler 's virtual earth work .
and this is something that grows in complexity as people use it , and whose benefits become greater to the users as they use it .
their own photos are getting tagged with meta-data that somebody else entered .
if somebody bothered to tag all of these saints and say who they all are , then my photo of notre dame cathedral suddenly gets enriched with all of that data , and i can use it as an entry point to dive into that space , into that meta-verse , using everybody else 's photos , and do a kind of a cross-modal and cross-user social experience that way .
and of course , a by-product of all of that is immensely rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth , collected not just from overhead flights and from satellite images and so on , but from the collective memory .
thank you so much .
do i understand this right ? that what your software is going to allow , is that at some point , really within the next few years , all the pictures that are shared by anyone across the world are going to basically link together ?
yes . what this is really doing is discovering .
it 's creating hyperlinks , if you will , between images .
and it 's doing that based on the content inside the images .
and that gets really exciting when you think about the richness of the semantic information that a lot of those images have .
like when you do a web search for images , you type in phrases , and the text on the web page is carrying a lot of information about what that picture is of .
now , what if that picture links to all of your pictures ?
then the amount of semantic interconnection and the amount of richness that comes out of that is really huge . it 's a classic network effect .
blaise , that is truly incredible . congratulations .
thanks so much .
last year at ted i gave an introduction to the lhc .
and i promised to come back and give you an update on how that machine worked .
so this is it . and for those of you that were n't there , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted -- 27 kilometers in circumference .
its job is to recreate the conditions that were present less than a billionth of a second after the universe began , up to 600 million times a second .
it 's nothing if not ambitious .
this is the machine below geneva .
we take the pictures of those mini-big bangs inside detectors .
this is the one i work on . it 's called the atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
spectacular picture here of atlas under construction so you can see the scale .
on the 10th of september last year we turned the machine on for the first time .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
it caused immense celebration in the control room .
it 's a picture of the first beam particle going all the way around the lhc , colliding with a piece of the lhc deliberately , and showering particles into the detector .
in other words , when we saw that picture on september 10th we knew the machine worked , which is a great triumph .
i do n't know whether this got the biggest cheer , or this , when someone went onto google and saw the front page was like that .
it means we made cultural impact as well as scientific impact .
about a week later we had a problem with the machine , related actually to these bits of wire here -- these gold wires .
those wires carry 13 thousand amps when the machine is working in full power .
now the engineers amongst you will look at them and say , `` no they do n't . they 're small wires . ''
they can do that because when they are very cold they are what 's called superconducting wire .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the space between the stars , those wires can take that current .
in one of the joints between over 9,000 magnets in lhc , there was a manufacturing defect .
so the wire heated up slightly , and its 13,000 amps suddenly encountered electrical resistance .
this was the result .
now that 's more impressive when you consider those magnets weigh over 20 tons , and they moved about a foot .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
we had to take them out , which we did .
we reconditioned them all , fixed them .
they 're all on their way back underground now .
by the end of march the lhc will be intact again .
we will switch it on , and we expect to take data in june or july , and continue with our quest to find out what the building blocks of the universe are .
now of course , in a way those accidents reignite the debate about the value of science and engineering at the edge . it 's easy to refute .
i think that the fact that it 's so difficult , the fact that we 're overreaching , is the value of things like the lhc .
i will leave the final word to an english scientist , humphrey davy , who , i suspect , when defending his protege 's useless experiments -- his protege was michael faraday -- said this , `` nothing is so dangerous to the progress of the human mind than to assume that our views of science are ultimate , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumphs are complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . ''
thank you .
you know , i 've talked about some of these projects before -- about the human genome and what that might mean , and discovering new sets of genes .
we 're actually starting at a new point : we 've been digitizing biology , and now we 're trying to go from that digital code into a new phase of biology with designing and synthesizing life .
so , we 've always been trying to ask big questions .
`` what is life ? '' is something that i think many biologists have been trying to understand at various levels .
we 've tried various approaches , paring it down to minimal components .
we 've been digitizing it now for almost 20 years ; when we sequenced the human genome , it was going from the analog world of biology into the digital world of the computer .
now we 're trying to ask , `` can we regenerate life or can we create new life out of this digital universe ? ''
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma genitalium , that has the smallest genome for a species that can self-replicate in the laboratory , and we 've been trying to just see if we can come up with an even smaller genome .
we 're able to knock out on the order of 100 genes out of the 500 or so that are here .
when we look at its metabolic map , it 's relatively simple compared to ours -- trust me , this is simple -- but when we look at all the genes that we can knock out one at a time , it 's very unlikely that this would yield a living cell .
so we decided the only way forward was to actually synthesize this chromosome so we could vary the components to ask some of these most fundamental questions .
and so we started down the road of : can we synthesize a chromosome ?
can chemistry permit making these really large molecules where we 've never been before ?
and if we do , can we boot up a chromosome ?
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of inert chemical material .
so , our pace of digitizing life has been increasing at an exponential pace .
our ability to write the genetic code has been moving pretty slowly but has been increasing , and our latest point would put it on , now , an exponential curve .
we started this over 15 years ago .
it took several stages , in fact , starting with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
but it turns out synthesizing dna is very difficult .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that make small pieces of dna -- 30 to 50 letters in length -- and it 's a degenerate process , so the longer you make the piece , the more errors there are .
so we had to create a new method for putting these little pieces together and correct all the errors .
and this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information of the genome of phi x 174 .
it 's a small virus that kills bacteria .
we designed the pieces , went through our error correction and had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of inert chemical and put it in the bacteria , and the bacteria started to read this genetic code , made the viral particles .
the viral particles then were released from the cells and came back and killed the e. coli .
i was talking to the oil industry recently and i said they clearly understood that model .
they laughed more than you guys are .
and so , we think this is a situation where the software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
but we wanted to go much larger : we wanted to build the entire bacterial chromosome -- it 's over 580,000 letters of genetic code -- so we thought we 'd build them in cassettes the size of the viruses so we could actually vary the cassettes to understand what the actual components of a living cell are .
design is critical , and if you 're starting with digital information in the computer , that digital information has to be really accurate .
when we first sequenced this genome in 1995 , the standard of accuracy was one error per 10,000 base pairs .
we actually found , on resequencing it , 30 errors ; had we used that original sequence , it never would have been able to be booted up .
part of the design is designing pieces that are 50 letters long that have to overlap with all the other 50-letter pieces to build smaller subunits we have to design so they can go together .
we design unique elements into this .
you may have read that we put watermarks in .
think of this : we have a four-letter genetic code -- a , c , g and t .
triplets of those letters code for roughly 20 amino acids , such that there 's a single letter designation for each of the amino acids .
so we can use the genetic code to write out words , sentences , thoughts .
initially , all we did was autograph it .
some people were disappointed there was not poetry .
we designed these pieces so we can just chew back with enzymes ; there are enzymes that repair them and put them together .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that were 5,000 to 7,000 letters , put those together to make 24,000-letter pieces , then put sets of those going up to 72,000 .
at each stage , we grew up these pieces in abundance so we could sequence them because we 're trying to create a process that 's extremely robust that you can see in a minute .
we 're trying to get to the point of automation .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
when we get into these really large pieces over 100,000 base pairs , they wo n't any longer grow readily in e. coli -- it exhausts all the modern tools of molecular biology -- and so we turned to other mechanisms .
we knew there 's a mechanism called homologous recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can put pieces together .
here 's an example of it : there 's an organism called deinococcus radiodurans that can take three millions rads of radiation .
you can see in the top panel , its chromosome just gets blown apart .
twelve to 24 hours later , it put it back together exactly as it was before .
we have thousands of organisms that can do this .
these organisms can be totally desiccated ; they can live in a vacuum .
i am absolutely certain that life can exist in outer space , move around , find a new aqueous environment .
in fact , nasa has shown a lot of this is out there .
here 's an actual micrograph of the molecule we built using these processes , actually just using yeast mechanisms with the right design of the pieces we put them in ; yeast puts them together automatically .
this is not an electron micrograph ; this is just a regular photomicrograph .
it 's such a large molecule we can see it with a light microscope .
these are pictures over about a six-second period .
so , this is the publication we had just a short while ago .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code ; it 's the largest molecule ever made by humans of a defined structure .
it 's over 300 million molecular weight .
if we printed it out at a 10 font with no spacing , it takes 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
well , how do we boot up a chromosome ? how do we activate this ?
obviously , with a virus it 's pretty simple ; it 's much more complicated dealing with bacteria .
it 's also simpler when you go into eukaryotes like ourselves : you can just pop out the nucleus and pop in another one , and that 's what you 've all heard about with cloning .
with bacteria and archaea , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but we recently showed that we can do a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to another and activate it .
we purified a chromosome from one microbial species -- roughly , these two are as distant as human and mice -- we added a few extra genes so we could select for this chromosome , we digested it with enzymes to kill all the proteins , and it was pretty stunning when we put this in the cell -- and you 'll appreciate our very sophisticated graphics here .
the new chromosome went into the cell .
in fact , we thought this might be as far as it went , but we tried to design the process a little bit further .
this is a major mechanism of evolution right here .
we find all kinds of species that have taken up a second chromosome or a third one from somewhere , adding thousands of new traits in a second to that species .
so , people who think of evolution as just one gene changing at a time have missed much of biology .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
the chromosome that was in the cell does n't have one ; the chromosome we put in does .
it got expressed and it recognized the other chromosome as foreign material , chewed it up , and so we ended up just with a cell with the new chromosome .
it turned blue because of the genes we put in it .
and with a very short period of time , all the characteristics of one species were lost and it converted totally into the new species based on the new software that we put in the cell .
all the proteins changed , the membranes changed ; when we read the genetic code , it 's exactly what we had transferred in .
so , this may sound like genomic alchemy , but we can , by moving the software of dna around , change things quite dramatically .
now i 've argued , this is not genesis ; this is building on three and a half billion years of evolution .
and i 've argued that we 're about to perhaps create a new version of the cambrian explosion , where there 's massive new speciation based on this digital design .
why do this ?
i think this is pretty obvious in terms of some of the needs .
we 're about to go from six and a half to nine billion people over the next 40 years .
to put it in context for myself : i was born in 1946 .
there are now three people on the planet for every one of us that existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , there 'll be four .
we have trouble feeding , providing fresh , clean water , medicines , fuel for the six and a half billion .
it 's going to be a stretch to do it for nine .
we use over five billion tons of coal , 30 billion-plus barrels of oil -- that 's a hundred million barrels a day .
when we try to think of biological processes or any process to replace that , it 's going to be a huge challenge .
then of course , there 's all that co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
we now , from our discovery around the world , have a database with about 20 million genes , and i like to think of these as the design components of the future .
the electronics industry only had a dozen or so components , and look at the diversity that came out of that .
we 're limited here primarily by a biological reality and our imagination .
we now have techniques , because of these rapid methods of synthesis , to do what we 're calling combinatorial genomics .
we have the ability now to build a large robot that can make a million chromosomes a day .
when you think of processing these 20 million different genes or trying to optimize processes to produce octane or to produce pharmaceuticals , new vaccines , we can just with a small team , do more molecular biology than the last 20 years of all science .
and it 's just standard selection : we can select for viability , chemical or fuel production , vaccine production , etc. .
this is a screen snapshot of some true design software that we 're working on to actually be able to sit down and design species in the computer .
you know , we do n't know necessarily what it 'll look like : we know exactly what their genetic code looks like .
we 're focusing on now fourth-generation fuels .
you 've seen recently , corn to ethanol is just a bad experiment .
we have second - and third-generation fuels that will be coming out relatively soon that are sugar , to much higher-value fuels like octane or different types of butanol .
but the only way we think that biology can have a major impact without further increasing the cost of food and limiting its availability is if we start with co2 as its feedstock , and so we 're working with designing cells to go down this road .
and we think we 'll have the first fourth-generation fuels in about 18 months .
sunlight and co2 is one method ...
but in our discovery around the world , we have all kinds of other methods .
this is an organism we described in 1996 .
it lives in the deep ocean , about a mile and a half deep , almost at boiling-water temperatures .
it takes co2 to methane using molecular hydrogen as its energy source .
we 're looking to see if we can take captured co2 , which can easily be piped to sites , convert that co2 back into fuel to drive this process .
so , in a short period of time , we think that we might be able to increase what the basic question is of `` what is life ? ''
we truly , you know , have modest goals of replacing the whole petrol-chemical industry -- yeah . if you ca n't do that at ted , where can you ? -- become a major source of energy ...
but also , we 're now working on using these same tools to come up with instant sets of vaccines .
you 've seen this year with flu ; we 're always a year behind and a dollar short when it comes to the right vaccine .
i think that can be changed by building combinatorial vaccines in advance .
here 's what the future may begin to look like with changing , now , the evolutionary tree , speeding up evolution with synthetic bacteria , archaea and , eventually , eukaryotes .
we 're a ways away from improving people : our goal is just to make sure that we have a chance to survive long enough to maybe do that . thank you very much .
last year i showed these two slides so that demonstrate that the arctic ice cap , which for most of the last three million years has been the size of the lower 48 states , has shrunk by 40 percent .
but this understates the seriousness of this particular problem because it does n't show the thickness of the ice .
the arctic ice cap is , in a sense , the beating heart of the global climate system .
it expands in winter and contracts in summer .
the next slide i show you will be a rapid fast-forward of what 's happened over the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked in red .
as you see , it expands to the dark blue -- that 's the annual ice in winter , and it contracts in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , you can see is almost like blood , spilling out of the body here .
in 25 years it 's gone from this , to this .
this is a problem because the warming heats up the frozen ground around the arctic ocean , where there is a massive amount of frozen carbon which , when it thaws , is turned into methane by microbes .
compared to the total amount of global warming pollution in the atmosphere , that amount could double if we cross this tipping point .
already in some shallow lakes in alaska , methane is actively bubbling up out of the water .
professor katey walter from the university of alaska went out with another team to another shallow lake last winter .
whoa !
she 's okay . the question is whether we will be .
and one reason is , this enormous heat sink heats up greenland from the north .
this is an annual melting river .
but the volumes are much larger than ever .
this is the kangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how sea level rises from land-base ice melting this is where it reaches the sea .
these flows are increasing very rapidly .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica the largest mass of ice on the planet .
last month scientists reported the entire continent is now in negative ice balance .
and west antarctica cropped up on top some under-sea islands , is particularly rapid in its melting .
that 's equal to 20 feet of sea level , as is greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest mass of ice : at the top you see new lakes , which a few years ago were glaciers .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from that melting flow .
in the andes , this glacier is the source of drinking water for this city .
the flows have increased .
but when they go away , so does much of the drinking water .
in california there has been a 40 percent decline in the sierra snowpack .
this is hitting the reservoirs .
and the predictions , as you 've read , are serious .
this drying around the world has lead to a dramatic increase in fires .
and the disasters around the world have been increasing at an absolutely extraordinary and unprecedented rate .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern .
if you look at in the context of history you can see what this is doing .
in the last five years we 've added 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons every day to the oceans .
look carefully at the area of the eastern pacific , from the americas , extending westward , and on either side of the indian subcontinent , where there is a radical depletion of oxygen in the oceans .
the biggest single cause of global warming , along with deforestation , which is 20 percent of it , is the burning of fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the most serious problem .
the united states is one of the two largest emitters , along with china .
and the proposal has been to build a lot more coal plants .
but we 're beginning to see a sea change .
here are the ones that have been cancelled in the last few years with some green alternatives proposed .
however there is a political battle in our country .
and the coal industries and the oil industries spent a quarter of a billion dollars in the last calendar year promoting clean coal , which is an oxymoron .
that image reminded me of something .
around christmas , in my home in tennessee , a billion gallons of coal sludge was spilled .
you probably saw it on the news .
this , all over the country , is the second largest waste stream in america .
this happened around christmas .
one of the coal industry 's ads around christmas was this one .
frosty the coal man is a jolly , happy soul .
he 's abundant here in america , and he helps our economy grow .
frosty the coal man is getting cleaner everyday .
he 's affordable and adorable , and workers keep their pay .
this is the source of much of the coal in west virginia .
the largest mountaintop miner is the head of massey coal .
let me be clear about it . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , they do n't know what they 're talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has launched two campaigns .
this is one of them , part of one of them .
at coalergy we view climate change as a very serious threat to our business .
that 's why we 've made it our primary goal to spend a large sum of money on an advertising effort to help bring out and complicate the truth about coal .
the fact is , coal is n't dirty .
we think it 's clean -- smells good , too .
so do n't worry about climate change .
leave that up to us .
clean coal -- you 've heard a lot about it .
so let 's take a tour of this state-of-the-art clean coal facility .
amazing ! the machinery is kind of loud .
but that 's the sound of clean coal technology .
and while burning coal is one of the leading causes of global warming , the remarkable clean coal technology you see here changes everything .
take a good long look : this is today 's clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative meshes with our economic challenge and our national security challenge .
america is in crisis -- the economy , national security , the climate crisis .
the thread that links them all : our addiction to carbon based fuels , like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there is a bold new solution to get us out of this mess .
repower america with 100 percent clean electricity within 10 years .
a plan to put america back to work , make us more secure , and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that 's big enough to solve our problems .
repower america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it 's about repowering america .
one of the fastest ways to cut our dependence on old dirty fuels that are killing our planet .
future 's over here . wind , sun , a new energy grid .
new investments to create high-paying jobs .
repower america . it 's time to get real .
there is an old african proverb that says , `` if you want to go quickly , go alone .
if you want to go far , go together . ''
we need to go far , quickly .
i 'd like to share with you a discovery that i made a few months ago while writing an article for italian wired .
i always keep my thesaurus handy whenever i 'm writing anything , but i 'd already finished editing the piece , and i realized that i had never once in my life looked up the word `` disabled '' to see what i 'd find .
let me read you the entry .
`` disabled , adjective : crippled , helpless , useless , wrecked , stalled , maimed , wounded , mangled , lame , mutilated , run-down , worn-out , weakened , impotent , castrated , paralyzed , handicapped , senile , decrepit , laid-up , done-up , done-for , done-in cracked-up , counted-out ; see also hurt , useless and weak .
antonyms , healthy , strong , capable . ''
i was reading this list out loud to a friend and at first was laughing , it was so ludicrous , but i 'd just gotten past `` mangled , '' and my voice broke , and i had to stop and collect myself from the emotional shock and impact that the assault from these words unleashed .
you know , of course , this is my raggedy old thesaurus so i 'm thinking this must be an ancient print date , right ?
but , in fact , the print date was the early 1980s , when i would have been starting primary school and forming an understanding of myself outside the family unit and as related to the other kids and the world around me .
and , needless to say , thank god i was n't using a thesaurus back then .
i mean , from this entry , it would seem that i was born into a world that perceived someone like me to have nothing positive whatsoever going for them , when in fact , today i 'm celebrated for the opportunities and adventures my life has procured .
so , i immediately went to look up the 2009 online edition , expecting to find a revision worth noting .
here 's the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it 's not much better .
i find the last two words under `` near antonyms , '' particularly unsettling : `` whole '' and `` wholesome . ''
so , it 's not just about the words .
it 's what we believe about people when we name them with these words .
it 's about the values behind the words , and how we construct those values .
our language affects our thinking and how we view the world and how we view other people .
in fact , many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , believed that to utter a curse verbally was so powerful , because to say the thing out loud brought it into existence .
so , what reality do we want to call into existence : a person who is limited , or a person who 's empowered ?
by casually doing something as simple as naming a person , a child , we might be putting lids and casting shadows on their power .
would n't we want to open doors for them instead ?
one such person who opened doors for me was my childhood doctor at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington , delaware .
his name was dr. pizzutillo , an italian american , whose name , apparently , was too difficult for most americans to pronounce , so he went by dr. p .
and dr. p always wore really colorful bow ties and had the very perfect disposition to work with children .
i loved almost everything about my time spent at this hospital , with the exception of my physical therapy sessions .
i had to do what seemed like innumerable repetitions of exercises with these thick , elastic bands -- different colors , you know -- to help build up my leg muscles , and i hated these bands more than anything -- i hated them , had names for them . i hated them .
and , you know , i was already bargaining , as a five year-old child , with dr. p to try to get out of doing these exercises , unsuccessfully , of course .
and , one day , he came in to my session -- exhaustive and unforgiving , these sessions -- and he said to me , `` wow . aimee , you are such a strong and powerful little girl , i think you 're going to break one of those bands .
when you do break it , i 'm going to give you a hundred bucks . ''
now , of course , this was a simple ploy on dr. p 's part to get me to do the exercises i did n't want to do before the prospect of being the richest five-year-old in the second floor ward , but what he effectively did for me was reshape an awful daily occurrence into a new and promising experience for me .
and i have to wonder today to what extent his vision and his declaration of me as a strong and powerful little girl shaped my own view of myself as an inherently strong , powerful and athletic person well into the future .
this is an example of how adults in positions of power can ignite the power of a child .
but , in the previous instances of those thesaurus entries , our language is n't allowing us to evolve into the reality that we would all want , the possibility of an individual to see themselves as capable .
our language has n't caught up with the changes in our society , many of which have been brought about by technology .
certainly , from a medical standpoint , my legs , laser surgery for vision impairment , titanium knees and hip replacements for aging bodies that are allowing people to more fully engage with their abilities , and move beyond the limits that nature has imposed on them -- not to mention social networking platforms allow people to self-identify , to claim their own descriptions of themselves , so they can go align with global groups of their own choosing .
so , perhaps technology is revealing more clearly to us now what has always been a truth : that everyone has something rare and powerful to offer our society , and that the human ability to adapt is our greatest asset .
the human ability to adapt , it 's an interesting thing , because people have continually wanted to talk to me about overcoming adversity , and i 'm going to make an admission : this phrase never sat right with me , and i always felt uneasy trying to answer people 's questions about it , and i think i 'm starting to figure out why .
implicit in this phrase of `` overcoming adversity '' is the idea that success , or happiness , is about emerging on the other side of a challenging experience unscathed or unmarked by the experience , as if my successes in life have come about from an ability to sidestep or circumnavigate the presumed pitfalls of a life with prosthetics , or what other people perceive as my disability .
but , in fact , we are changed . we are marked , of course , by a challenge , whether physically , emotionally or both .
and i 'm going to suggest that this is a good thing .
adversity is n't an obstacle that we need to get around in order to resume living our life .
it 's part of our life .
and i tend to think of it like my shadow .
sometimes i see a lot of it , sometimes there 's very little , but it 's always with me .
and , certainly , i 'm not trying to diminish the impact , the weight , of a person 's struggle .
there is adversity and challenge in life , and it 's all very real and relative to every single person , but the question is n't whether or not you 're going to meet adversity , but how you 're going to meet it .
so , our responsibility is not simply shielding those we care for from adversity , but preparing them to meet it well .
and we do a disservice to our kids when we make them feel that they 're not equipped to adapt .
there 's an important difference and distinction between the objective medical fact of my being an amputee and the subjective societal opinion of whether or not i 'm disabled .
and , truthfully , the only real and consistent disability i 've had to confront is the world ever thinking that i could be described by those definitions .
in our desire to protect those we care about by giving them the cold , hard truth about their medical prognosis , or , indeed , a prognosis on the expected quality of their life , we have to make sure that we do n't put the first brick in a wall that will actually disable someone .
perhaps the existing model of only looking at what is broken in you and how do we fix it , serves to be more disabling to the individual than the pathology itself .
by not treating the wholeness of a person , by not acknowledging their potency , we are creating another ill on top of whatever natural struggle they might have .
we are effectively grading someone 's worth to our community .
so we need to see through the pathology and into the range of human capability .
and , most importantly , there 's a partnership between those perceived deficiencies and our greatest creative ability .
so it 's not about devaluing , or negating , these more trying times as something we want to avoid or sweep under the rug , but instead to find those opportunities wrapped in the adversity .
so maybe the idea i want to put out there is not so much overcoming adversity as it is opening ourselves up to it , embracing it , grappling with it , to use a wrestling term , maybe even dancing with it .
and , perhaps , if we see adversity as natural , consistent and useful , we 're less burdened by the presence of it .
this year we celebrate the 200th birthday of charles darwin , and it was 150 years ago , when writing about evolution , that darwin illustrated , i think , a truth about the human character .
to paraphrase : it 's not the strongest of the species that survives , nor is it the most intelligent that survives ; it is the one that is most adaptable to change .
conflict is the genesis of creation .
from darwin 's work , amongst others , we can recognize that the human ability to survive and flourish is driven by the struggle of the human spirit through conflict into transformation .
so , again , transformation , adaptation , is our greatest human skill .
and , perhaps , until we 're tested , we do n't know what we 're made of .
maybe that 's what adversity gives us : a sense of self , a sense of our own power .
so , we can give ourselves a gift .
we can re-imagine adversity as something more than just tough times .
maybe we can see it as change .
adversity is just change that we have n't adapted ourselves to yet .
i think the greatest adversity that we 've created for ourselves is this idea of normalcy .
now , who 's normal ?
there 's no normal .
there 's common , there 's typical . there 's no normal , and would you want to meet that poor , beige person if they existed ?
i do n't think so .
if we can change this paradigm from one of achieving normalcy to one of possibility -- or potency , to be even a little bit more dangerous -- we can release the power of so many more children , and invite them to engage their rare and valuable abilities with the community .
anthropologists tell us that the one thing we as humans have always required of our community members is to be of use , to be able to contribute .
there 's evidence that neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , carried their elderly and those with serious physical injury , and perhaps it 's because the life experience of survival of these people proved of value to the community .
they did n't view these people as broken and useless ; they were seen as rare and valuable .
a few years ago , i was in a food market in the town where i grew up in that red zone in northeastern pennsylvania , and i was standing over a bushel of tomatoes .
it was summertime : i had shorts on .
i hear this guy , his voice behind me say , `` well , if it is n't aimee mullins . ''
and i turn around , and it 's this older man . i have no idea who he is .
and i said , `` i 'm sorry , sir , have we met ? i do n't remember meeting you . ''
he said , `` well , you would n't remember meeting me .
i mean , when we met i was delivering you from your mother 's womb . ''
oh , that guy .
and , but of course , actually , it did click .
this man was dr. kean , a man that i had only known about through my mother 's stories of that day , because , of course , typical fashion , i arrived late for my birthday by two weeks .
and so my mother 's prenatal physician had gone on vacation , so the man who delivered me was a complete stranger to my parents .
and , because i was born without the fibula bones , and had feet turned in , and a few toes in this foot and a few toes in that , he had to be the bearer -- this stranger had to be the bearer of bad news .
he said to me , `` i had to give this prognosis to your parents that you would never walk , and you would never have the kind of mobility that other kids have or any kind of life of independence , and you 've been making liar out of me ever since . ''
the extraordinary thing is that he said he had saved newspaper clippings throughout my whole childhood , whether winning a second grade spelling bee , marching with the girl scouts , you know , the halloween parade , winning my college scholarship , or any of my sports victories , and he was using it , and integrating it into teaching resident students , med students from hahnemann medical school and hershey medical school .
and he called this part of the course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
no prognosis can account for how powerful this could be as a determinant in the quality of someone 's life .
and dr. kean went on to tell me , he said , `` in my experience , unless repeatedly told otherwise , and even if given a modicum of support , if left to their own devices , a child will achieve . ''
see , dr. kean made that shift in thinking .
he understood that there 's a difference between the medical condition and what someone might do with it .
and there 's been a shift in my thinking over time , in that , if you had asked me at 15 years old , if i would have traded prosthetics for flesh-and-bone legs , i would n't have hesitated for a second .
i aspired to that kind of normalcy back then .
but if you ask me today , i 'm not so sure .
and it 's because of the experiences i 've had with them , not in spite of the experiences i 've had with them .
and perhaps this shift in me has happened because i 've been exposed to more people who have opened doors for me than those who have put lids and cast shadows on me .
see , all you really need is one person to show you the epiphany of your own power , and you 're off .
if you can hand somebody the key to their own power -- the human spirit is so receptive -- if you can do that and open a door for someone at a crucial moment , you are educating them in the best sense .
you 're teaching them to open doors for themselves .
in fact , the exact meaning of the word `` educate '' comes from the root word `` educe . ''
it means `` to bring forth what is within , to bring out potential . ''
so again , which potential do we want to bring out ?
there was a case study done in 1960s britain , when they were moving from grammar schools to comprehensive schools .
it 's called the streaming trials . we call it `` tracking '' here in the states .
it 's separating students from a , b , c , d and so on .
and the `` a students '' get the tougher curriculum , the best teachers , etc. .
well , they took , over a three-month period , d-level students , gave them a 's , told them they were `` a 's , '' told them they were bright , and at the end of this three-month period , they were performing at a-level .
and , of course , the heartbreaking , flip side of this study , is that they took the `` a students '' and told them they were `` d 's . ''
and that 's what happened at the end of that three-month period .
those who were still around in school , besides the people who had dropped out .
a crucial part of this case study was that the teachers were duped too .
the teachers did n't know a switch had been made .
they were simply told , `` these are the ` a-students , ' these are the ' d - students . ' '' and that 's how they went about teaching them and treating them .
so , i think that the only true disability is a crushed spirit , a spirit that 's been crushed does n't have hope , it does n't see beauty , it no longer has our natural , childlike curiosity and our innate ability to imagine .
if instead , we can bolster a human spirit to keep hope , to see beauty in themselves and others , to be curious and imaginative , then we are truly using our power well .
when a spirit has those qualities , we are able to create new realities and new ways of being .
i 'd like to leave you with a poem by a fourteenth-century persian poet named hafiz that my friend , jacques dembois told me about , and the poem is called `` the god who only knows four words '' : `` every child has known god , not the god of names , not the god of do n'ts , but the god who only knows four words and keeps repeating them , saying , ` come dance with me .
come , dance with me . come , dance with me . ' '' thank you .
if i can leave you with one big idea today , it 's that the whole of the data in which we consume is greater that the sum of the parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , what i 'd like you to think about is how we can use information so that patterns pop and we can see trends that would otherwise be invisible .
so what we 're looking at right here is a typical mortality chart organized by age .
this tool that i 'm using here is a little experiment .
it 's called pivot , and with pivot what i can do is i can choose to filter in one particular cause of deaths -- say , accidents .
and , right away , i see there 's a different pattern that emerges .
this is because , in the mid-area here , people are at their most active , and over here they 're at their most frail .
we can step back out again and then reorganize the data by cause of death , seeing that circulatory diseases and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
if we go ahead and we filter by age -- say 40 years or less -- we see that accidents are actually the greatest cause that people have to be worried about .
and if you drill into that , it 's especially the case for men .
so you get the idea that viewing information , viewing data in this way , is a lot like swimming in a living information info-graphic .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not do it for content as well ?
so what we have right here is the cover of every single sports illustrated ever produced .
it 's all here ; it 's all on the web .
you can go back to your rooms and try this after my talk .
with pivot , you can drill into a decade .
you can drill into a particular year .
you can jump right into a specific issue .
so i 'm looking at this ; i see the athletes that have appeared in this issue , the sports .
i 'm a lance armstrong fan , so i 'll go ahead and i 'll click on that , which reveals , for me , all the issues in which lance armstrong 's been a part of .
now , if i want to just kind of take a peek at these , i might think , `` well , what about taking a look at all of cycling ? ''
so i can step back , and expand on that .
and i see greg lemond now .
and so you get the idea that when you navigate over information this way -- going narrower , broader , backing in , backing out -- you 're not searching , you 're not browsing .
you 're doing something that 's actually a little bit different .
it 's in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to extrapolate on this idea a bit with something that 's a little bit crazy .
what we 're done here is we 've taken every single wikipedia page and we reduced it down to a little summary .
so the summary consists of just a little synopsis and an icon to indicate the topical area that it comes from .
i 'm only showing the top 500 most popular wikipedia pages right here .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
right away , we get a sense of what are the topical domains that are most popular on wikipedia .
i 'm going to go ahead and select government .
now , having selected government , i can now see that the wikipedia categories that most frequently correspond to that are time magazine people of the year .
so this is really important because this is an insight that was not contained within any one wikipedia page .
it 's only possible to see that insight when you step back and look at all of them .
looking at one of these particular summaries , i can then drill into the concept of time magazine person of the year , bringing up all of them .
so looking at these people , i can see that the majority come from government ; some have come from natural sciences ; some , fewer still , have come from business -- there 's my boss -- and one has come from music .
and interestingly enough , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can go , jump , and take a look at all the ted prize winners .
so you see , we 're navigating the web for the first time as if it 's actually a web , not from page-to-page , but at a higher level of abstraction .
and so i want to show you one other thing that may catch you a little bit by surprise .
i 'm just showing the new york times website here .
so pivot , this application -- i do n't want to call it a browser ; it 's really not a browser , but you can view web pages with it -- and we bring that zoomable technology to every single web page like this .
so i can step back , pop right back into a specific section .
now the reason why this is important is because , by virtue of just viewing web pages in this way , i can look at my entire browsing history in the exact same way .
so i can drill into what i 've done over specific time frames .
here , in fact , is the state of all the demo that i just gave .
and i can sort of replay some stuff that i was looking at earlier today .
and , if i want to step back and look at everything , i can slice and dice my history , perhaps by my search history -- here , i was doing some nepotistic searching , looking for bing , over here for live labs pivot .
and from these , i can drill into the web page and just launch them again .
it 's one metaphor repurposed multiple times , and in each case it makes the whole greater than the sum of the parts with the data .
so right now , in this world , we think about data as being this curse .
we talk about the curse of information overload .
we talk about drowning in data .
what if we can actually turn that upside down and turn the web upside down , so that instead of navigating from one thing to the next , we get used to the habit of being able to go from many things to many things , and then being able to see the patterns that were otherwise hidden ?
if we can do that , then instead of being trapped in data , we might actually extract information .
and , instead of dealing just with information , we can tease out knowledge .
and if we get the knowledge , then maybe even there 's wisdom to be found .
so with that , i thank you .
several years ago here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design challenge called the marshmallow challenge .
and the idea 's pretty simple : teams of four have to build the tallest free-standing structure out of 20 sticks of spaghetti , one yard of tape , one yard of string and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and , though it seems really simple , it 's actually pretty hard because it forces people to collaborate very quickly .
and so , i thought this was an interesting idea , and i incorporated it into a design workshop .
and it was a huge success .
and since then , i 've conducted about 70 design workshops across the world with students and designers and architects , even the ctos of the fortune 50 , and there 's something about this exercise that reveals very deep lessons about the nature of collaboration , and i 'd like to share some of them with you .
so , normally , most people begin by orienting themselves to the task .
they talk about it , they figure out what it 's going to look like , they jockey for power .
then they spend some time planning , organizing , they sketch and they lay out spaghetti .
they spend the majority of their time assembling the sticks into ever-growing structures .
and then finally , just as they 're running out of time , someone takes out the marshmallow , and then they gingerly put it on top , and then they stand back , and -- ta-da ! -- they admire their work .
but what really happens , most of the time , is that the `` ta-da '' turns into an `` uh-oh , '' because the weight of the marshmallow causes the entire structure to buckle and to collapse .
so there are a number of people who have a lot more `` uh-oh '' moments than others , and among the worst are recent graduates of business school .
they lie , they cheat , they get distracted and they produce really lame structures .
and of course there are teams that have a lot more `` ta-da '' structures , and among the best are recent graduates of kindergarten .
and it 's pretty amazing .
as peter tells us , not only do they produce the tallest structures , but they 're the most interesting structures of them all .
so the question you want to ask is : how come ? why ? what is it about them ?
and peter likes to say that none of the kids spend any time trying to be ceo of spaghetti , inc. . right ?
they do n't spend time jockeying for power .
but there 's another reason as well .
and the reason is that business students are trained to find the single right plan , right ?
and then they execute on it .
and then what happens is , when they put the marshmallow on the top , they run out of time and what happens ?
it 's a crisis .
sound familiar ? right .
what kindergarteners do differently is that they start with the marshmallow , and they build prototypes , successive prototypes , always keeping the marshmallow on top , so they have multiple times to fix when they build prototypes along the way .
designers recognize this type of collaboration as the essence of the iterative process .
and with each version , kids get instant feedback about what works and what does n't work .
so the capacity to play in prototype is really essential , but let 's look at how different teams perform .
so the average for most people is around 20 inches ; business schools students , about half of that ; lawyers , a little better , but not much better than that , kindergarteners , better than most adults .
who does the very best ?
architects and engineers , thankfully .
thirty-nine inches is the tallest structure i 've seen .
and why is it ? because they understand triangles and self-reinforcing geometrical patterns are the key to building stable structures .
so ceos , a little bit better than average , but here 's where it gets interesting .
if you put you put an executive admin . on the team , they get significantly better .
it 's incredible . you know , you look around , you go , `` oh , that team 's going to win . ''
you can just tell beforehand . and why is that ?
because they have special skills of facilitation .
they manage the process , they understand the process .
and any team who manages and pays close attention to work will significantly improve the team 's performance .
specialized skills and facilitation skills are the combination that leads to strong success .
if you have 10 teams that typically perform , you 'll get maybe six or so that have standing structures .
and i tried something interesting .
i thought , let 's up the ante , once .
so i offered a 10,000 dollar prize of software to the winning team .
so what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
here 's what happened : not one team had a standing structure .
if anyone had built , say , a one inch structure , they would have taken home the prize .
so , is n't that interesting ? that high stakes have a strong impact .
we did the exercise again with the same students .
what do you think happened then ?
so now they understand the value of prototyping .
so the same team went from being the very worst to being among the very best .
they produced the tallest structures in the least amount of time .
so there 's deep lessons for us about the nature of incentives and success .
so , you might ask : why would anyone actually spend time writing a marshmallow challenge ?
and the reason is , i help create digital tools and processes to help teams build cars and video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify the hidden assumptions .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , a common stance to build the right prototype .
and so , this is the value of the experience , of this so simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested may want to go to marshmallowchallenge.com .
it 's a blog that you can look at how to build the marshmallows .
there 's step-by-step instructions on this .
there are crazy examples from around the world of how people tweak and adjust the system .
there 's world records that are on this as well .
and the fundamental lesson , i believe , is that design truly is a contact sport .
it demands that we bring all of our senses to the task , and that we apply the very best of our thinking , our feeling and our doing to the challenge that we have at hand .
and sometimes , a little prototype of this experience is all that it takes to turn us from an `` uh-oh '' moment to a `` ta-da '' moment .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you very much .
now -- -- the problem -- the problem is that even those of us sympathetic with the plight of indigenous people view them as quaint and colorful but somehow reduced to the margins of history as the real world , meaning our world , moves on .
well , the truth is the 20th century , 300 years from now , is not going to be remembered for its wars or its technological innovations , but rather as the era in which we stood by and either actively endorsed or passively accepted the massive destruction of both biological and cultural diversity on the planet . now , the problem is n't change .
all cultures through all time have constantly been engaged in a dance with new possibilities of life .
and the problem is not technology itself .
the sioux indians did not stop being sioux when they gave up the bow and arrow any more than an american stopped being an american when he gave up the horse and buggy .
it 's not change or technology that threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it is power , the crude face of domination .
wherever you look around the world , you discover that these are not cultures destined to fade away ; these are dynamic living peoples being driven out of existence by identifiable forces that are beyond their capacity to adapt to : whether it 's the egregious deforestation in the homeland of the penan -- a nomadic people from southeast asia , from sarawak -- a people who lived free in the forest until a generation ago , and now have all been reduced to servitude and prostitution on the banks of the rivers , where you can see the river itself is soiled with the silt that seems to be carrying half of borneo away to the south china sea , where the japanese freighters hang light in the horizon ready to fill their holds with raw logs ripped from the forest -- or , in the case of the yanomami , it 's the disease entities that have come in , in the wake of the discovery of gold .
or if we go into the mountains of tibet , where i 'm doing a lot of research recently , you 'll see it 's a crude face of political domination .
you know , genocide , the physical extinction of a people is universally condemned , but ethnocide , the destruction of people 's way of life , is not only not condemned , it 's universally , in many quarters , celebrated as part of a development strategy .
and you can not understand the pain of tibet until you move through it at the ground level .
i once travelled 6,000 miles from chengdu in western china overland through southeastern tibet to lhasa with a young colleague , and it was only when i got to lhasa that i understood the face behind the statistics you hear about : 6,000 sacred monuments torn apart to dust and ashes , 1.2 million people killed by the cadres during the cultural revolution .
this young man 's father had been ascribed to the panchen lama .
that meant he was instantly killed at the time of the chinese invasion .
his uncle fled with his holiness in the diaspora that took the people to nepal .
his mother was incarcerated for the crime of being wealthy .
he was smuggled into the jail at the age of two to hide beneath her skirt tails because she could n't bear to be without him .
the sister who had done that brave deed was put into an education camp .
one day she inadvertently stepped on an armband of mao , and for that transgression , she was given seven years of hard labor .
the pain of tibet can be impossible to bear , but the redemptive spirit of the people is something to behold .
and in the end , then , it really comes down to a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotony or do we want to embrace a polychromatic world of diversity ?
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , said , before she died , that her greatest fear was that as we drifted towards this blandly amorphous generic world view not only would we see the entire range of the human imagination reduced to a more narrow modality of thought , but that we would wake from a dream one day having forgotten there were even other possibilities .
and it 's humbling to remember that our species has , perhaps , been around for -lsb- 150,000 -rsb- years .
the neolithic revolution -- which gave us agriculture , at which time we succumbed to the cult of the seed ; the poetry of the shaman was displaced by the prose of the priesthood ; we created hierarchy specialization surplus -- is only 10,000 years ago .
the modern industrial world as we know it is barely 300 years old .
now , that shallow history does n't suggest to me that we have all the answers for all of the challenges that will confront us in the ensuing millennia .
when these myriad cultures of the world are asked the meaning of being human , they respond with 10,000 different voices .
and it 's within that song that we will all rediscover the possibility of being what we are : a fully conscious species , fully aware of ensuring that all peoples and all gardens find a way to flourish . and there are great moments of optimism .
this is a photograph i took at the northern tip of baffin island when i went narwhal hunting with some inuit people , and this man , olayuk , told me a marvelous story of his grandfather .
the canadian government has not always been kind to the inuit people , and during the 1950s , to establish our sovereignty , we forced them into settlements .
this old man 's grandfather refused to go .
the family , fearful for his life , took away all of his weapons , all of his tools .
now , you must understand that the inuit did not fear the cold ; they took advantage of it .
the runners of their sleds were originally made of fish wrapped in caribou hide .
so , this man 's grandfather was not intimidated by the arctic night or the blizzard that was blowing .
he simply slipped outside , pulled down his sealskin trousers and defecated into his hand . and as the feces began to freeze , he shaped it into the form of a blade .
he put a spray of saliva on the edge of the shit knife and as it finally froze solid , he butchered a dog with it .
he skinned the dog and improvised a harness , took the ribcage of the dog and improvised a sled , harnessed up an adjacent dog , and disappeared over the ice floes , shit knife in belt .
talk about getting by with nothing .
and this , in many ways -- -- is a symbol of the resilience of the inuit people and of all indigenous people around the world .
the canadian government in april of 1999 gave back to total control of the inuit an area of land larger than california and texas put together .
it 's our new homeland . it 's called nunavut .
it 's an independent territory . they control all mineral resources .
an amazing example of how a nation-state can seek restitution with its people .
and finally , in the end , i think it 's pretty obvious at least to all of all us who 've traveled in these remote reaches of the planet , to realize that they 're not remote at all .
they 're homelands of somebody .
they represent branches of the human imagination that go back to the dawn of time . and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the naked geography of hope .
so , what we 're trying to do at the national geographic , finally , is , we believe that politicians will never accomplish anything .
we think that polemics -- -- we think that polemics are not persuasive , but we think that storytelling can change the world , and so we are probably the best storytelling institution in the world . we get 35 million hits on our website every month .
156 nations carry our television channel .
our magazines are read by millions .
and what we 're doing is a series of journeys to the ethnosphere where we 're going to take our audience to places of such cultural wonder that they can not help but come away dazzled by what they have seen , and hopefully , therefore , embrace gradually , one by one , the central revelation of anthropology : that this world deserves to exist in a diverse way , that we can find a way to live in a truly multicultural , pluralistic world where all of the wisdom of all peoples can contribute to our collective well-being .
thank you very much .
i 'm going to talk to you about some stuff that 's in this book of mine that i hope will resonate with other things you 've already heard , and i 'll try to make some connections myself , in case you miss them .
i want to start with what i call the `` official dogma . ''
the official dogma of what ?
the official dogma of all western industrial societies .
and the official dogma runs like this : if we are interested in maximizing the welfare of our citizens , the way to do that is to maximize individual freedom .
the reason for this is both that freedom is in and of itself good , valuable , worthwhile , essential to being human .
and because if people have freedom , then each of us can act on our own to do the things that will maximize our welfare , and no one has to decide on our behalf .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
the more choice people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more welfare they have .
this , i think , is so deeply embedded in the water supply that it would n't occur to anyone to question it .
and it 's also deeply embedded in our lives .
i 'll give you some examples of what modern progress has made possible for us .
this is my supermarket . not such a big one .
i want to say just a word about salad dressing .
175 salad dressings in my supermarket , if you do n't count the 10 extra-virgin olive oils and 12 balsamic vinegars you could buy to make a very large number of your own salad dressings , in the off-chance that none of the 175 the store has on offer suit you .
so this is what the supermarket is like .
and then you go to the consumer electronics store to set up a stereo system -- speakers , cd player , tape player , tuner , amplifier -- and in this one single consumer electronics store , there are that many stereo systems .
we can construct six-and-a-half-million different stereo systems out of the components that are on offer in one store .
you 've got to admit that 's a lot of choice .
in other domains -- the world of communications .
there was a time , when i was a boy , when you could get any kind of telephone service you wanted , as long as it came from ma bell .
you rented your phone . you did n't buy it .
one consequence of that , by the way , is that the phone never broke .
and those days are gone .
we now have an almost unlimited variety of phones , especially in the world of cell phones .
these are cell phones of the future .
my favorite is the middle one -- the mp3 player , nose hair trimmer , and creme brulee torch .
and if by some chance you have n't seen that in your store yet , you can rest assured that one day soon you will .
and what this does is it leads people to walk into their stores asking this question .
and do you know what the answer to this question now is ?
the answer is `` no . ''
it is not possible to buy a cell phone that does n't do too much .
so , in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying things , the same explosion of choice is true .
health care -- it is no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , `` well , we could do a , or we could do b .
a has these benefits , and these risks .
b has these benefits , and these risks . what do you want to do ? ''
and you say , `` doc , what should i do ? ''
and the doc says , `` a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
what do you want to do ? ''
and you say , `` if you were me , doc , what would you do ? ''
and the doc says , `` but i 'm not you . ''
and the result is -- we call it `` patient autonomy , '' which makes it sound like a good thing , but what it really is is a shifting of the burden and the responsibility for decision-making from somebody who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to somebody who knows nothing and is almost certainly sick and thus not in the best shape to be making decisions -- namely , the patient .
there 's enormous marketing of prescription drugs to people like you and me , which , if you think about it , makes no sense at all , since we ca n't buy them .
why do they market to us if we ca n't buy them ?
the answer is that they expect us to call our doctors the next morning and ask for our prescriptions to be changed .
something as dramatic as our identity has now become a matter of choice , as this slide is meant to indicate .
we do n't inherit an identity ; we get to invent it .
and we get to re-invent ourselves as often as we like .
and that means that everyday , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
with respect to marriage and family , there was a time when the default assumption that almost everyone had is that you got married as soon as you could , and then you started having kids as soon as you could .
the only real choice was who , not when , and not what you did after .
nowadays , everything is very much up for grabs .
i teach wonderfully intelligent students , and i assign 20 percent less work than i used to .
and it 's not because they 're less smart , and it 's not because they 're less diligent .
it 's because they are preoccupied , asking themselves , `` should i get married or not ? should i get married now ?
should i get married later ? should i have kids first , or a career first ? ''
all of these are consuming questions .
and they 're going to answer these questions , whether or not it means not doing all the work i assign and not getting a good grade in my courses .
and indeed they should . these are important questions to answer .
work -- we are blessed , as carl was pointing out , with the technology that enables us to work every minute of every day from any place on the planet -- except the randolph hotel .
there is one corner , by the way , that i 'm not going to tell anybody about , where the wifi works .
i 'm not telling you about it because i want to use it .
so what this means , this incredible freedom of choice we have with respect to work , is that we have to make a decision , again and again and again , about whether we should or should n't be working .
we can go to watch our kid play soccer , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on our other hip , and our laptop , presumably , on our laps .
and even if they 're all shut off , every minute that we 're watching our kid mutilate a soccer game , we are also asking ourselves , `` should i answer this cell phone call ?
should i respond to this email ? should i draft this letter ? ''
and even if the answer to the question is `` no , '' it 's certainly going to make the experience of your kid 's soccer game very different than it would 've been .
so everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle things , life is a matter of choice .
and the world we used to live in looked like this .
that is to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a matter of choice .
and the world we now live in looks like this .
and the question is , is this good news , or bad news ?
and the answer is yes .
we all know what 's good about it , so i 'm going to talk about what 's bad about it .
all of this choice has two effects , two negative effects on people .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it produces paralysis , rather than liberation .
with so many options to choose from , people find it very difficult to choose at all .
i 'll give you one very dramatic example of this : a study that was done of investments in voluntary retirement plans .
a colleague of mine got access to investment records from vanguard , the gigantic mutual fund company of about a million employees and about 2,000 different workplaces .
and what she found is that for every 10 mutual funds the employer offered , rate of participation went down two percent .
you offer 50 funds -- 10 percent fewer employees participate than if you only offer five . why ?
because with 50 funds to choose from , it 's so damn hard to decide which fund to choose that you 'll just put it off until tomorrow .
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and of course tomorrow never comes .
understand that not only does this mean that people are going to have to eat dog food when they retire because they do n't have enough money put away , it also means that making the decision is so hard that they pass up significant matching money from the employer .
by not participating , they are passing up as much as 5,000 dollars a year from the employer , who would happily match their contribution .
so paralysis is a consequence of having too many choices .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
you really want to get the decision right if it 's for all eternity , right ?
you do n't want to pick the wrong mutual fund , or even the wrong salad dressing .
so that 's one effect . the second effect is that even if we manage to overcome the paralysis and make a choice , we end up less satisfied with the result of the choice than we would be if we had fewer options to choose from .
and there are several reasons for this .
one of them is that with a lot of different salad dressings to choose from , if you buy one , and it 's not perfect -- and , you know , what salad dressing is ? -- it 's easy to imagine that you could have made a different choice that would have been better . and what happens is this imagined alternative induces you to regret the decision you made , and this regret subtracts from the satisfaction you get out of the decision you made , even if it was a good decision .
the more options there are , the easier it is to regret anything at all that is disappointing about the option that you chose .
second , what economists call `` opportunity costs . ''
dan gilbert made a big point this morning of talking about how much the way in which we value things depends on what we compare them to .
well , when there are lots of alternatives to consider , it is easy to imagine the attractive features of alternatives that you reject , that make you less satisfied with the alternative that you 've chosen .
here 's an example . for those of you who are n't new yorkers , i apologize .
but here 's what you 're supposed to be thinking .
here 's this couple on the hamptons .
very expensive real estate .
gorgeous beach . beautiful day . they have it all to themselves .
what could be better ? `` well , damn it , '' this guy is thinking , `` it 's august .
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is away .
i could be parking right in front of my building . ''
and he spends two weeks nagged by the idea that he is missing the opportunity , day after day , to have a great parking space .
opportunity costs subtract from the satisfaction we get out of what we choose , even when what we choose is terrific .
and the more options there are to consider , the more attractive features of these options are going to be reflected by us as opportunity costs .
here 's another example .
now this cartoon makes a lot of points .
it makes points about living in the moment as well , and probably about doing things slowly .
but one point it makes is that whenever you 're choosing one thing , you 're choosing not to do other things .
and those other things may have lots of attractive features , and it 's going to make what you 're doing less attractive .
third : escalation of expectations .
this hit me when i went to replace my jeans .
i wear jeans almost all the time .
and there was a time when jeans came in one flavor , and you bought them , and they fit like crap , and they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if you wore them long enough and washed them enough times , they started to feel ok .
so i went to replace my jeans after years and years of wearing these old ones , and i said , you know , `` i want a pair of jeans . here 's my size . ''
and the shopkeeper said , `` do you want slim fit , easy fit , relaxed fit ?
you want button fly or zipper fly ? you want stonewashed or acid-washed ?
do you want them distressed ?
you want boot cut , you want tapered , blah blah blah ... '' on and on he went .
my jaw dropped , and after i recovered , i said , `` i want the kind that used to be the only kind . ''
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying on all these damn jeans , and i walked out of the store -- truth ! -- with the best-fitting jeans i had ever had .
i did better . all this choice made it possible for me to do better .
but i felt worse .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try to explain this to myself .
the reason i felt worse is that , with all of these options available , my expectations about how good a pair of jeans should be went up .
i had very low -- i had no particular expectations when they only came in one flavor .
when they came in 100 flavors , damn it , one of them should 've been perfect .
and what i got was good , but it was n't perfect .
and so i compared what i got to what i expected , and what i got was disappointing in comparison to what i expected .
adding options to people 's lives ca n't help but increase the expectations people have about how good those options will be .
and what that 's going to produce is less satisfaction with results , even when they 're good results .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if they did , you would n't all know what this was about .
the truth is more like this .
the reason that everything was better back when everything was worse is that when everything was worse , it was actually possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
nowadays , the world we live in -- we affluent , industrialized citizens , with perfection the expectation -- the best you can ever hope for is that stuff is as good as you expect it to be .
you will never be pleasantly surprised because your expectations , my expectations , have gone through the roof .
the secret to happiness -- this is what you all came for -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
i want to say -- just a little autobiographical moment -- that i actually am married to a wife , and she 's really quite wonderful .
i could n't have done better . i did n't settle .
but settling is n't always such a bad thing .
finally , one consequence of buying a bad-fitting pair of jeans when there is only one kind to buy is that when you are dissatisfied , and you ask why , who 's responsible , the answer is clear : the world is responsible . what could you do ?
when there are hundreds of different styles of jeans available , and you buy one that is disappointing , and you ask why , who 's responsible ?
it is equally clear that the answer to the question is you .
you could have done better .
with a hundred different kinds of jeans on display , there is no excuse for failure .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about them ; they blame themselves .
clinical depression has exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
i believe a significant -- not the only , but a significant -- contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experiences that are disappointing because their standards are so high , and then when they have to explain these experiences to themselves , they think they 're at fault .
and so the net result is that we do better in general , objectively , and we feel worse .
so let me remind you .
this is the official dogma , the one that we all take to be true , and it 's all false . it is not true .
there 's no question that some choice is better than none , but it does n't follow from that that more choice is better than some choice .
there 's some magical amount . i do n't know what it is .
i 'm pretty confident that we have long since passed the point where options improve our welfare .
now , as a policy matter -- i 'm almost done -- as a policy matter , the thing to think about is this : what enables all of this choice in industrial societies is material affluence .
there are lots of places in the world , and we have heard about several of them , where their problem is not that they have too much choice .
their problem is that they have too little .
so the stuff i 'm talking about is the peculiar problem of modern , affluent , western societies .
and what is so frustrating and infuriating is this : steve levitt talked to you yesterday about how these expensive and difficult-to-install child seats do n't help . it 's a waste of money .
what i 'm telling you is that these expensive , complicated choices -- it 's not simply that they do n't help .
they actually hurt .
they actually make us worse off .
if some of what enables people in our societies to make all of the choices we make were shifted to societies in which people have too few options , not only would those people 's lives be improved , but ours would be improved also .
this is what economists call a `` pareto-improving move . ''
income redistribution will make everyone better off -- not just poor people -- because of how all this excess choice plagues us .
so to conclude . you 're supposed to read this cartoon , and , being a sophisticated person , say , `` ah ! what does this fish know ?
you know , nothing is possible in this fishbowl . ''
impoverished imagination , a myopic view of the world -- and that 's the way i read it at first .
the more i thought about it , however , the more i came to the view that this fish knows something .
because the truth of the matter is that if you shatter the fishbowl so that everything is possible , you do n't have freedom . you have paralysis .
if you shatter this fishbowl so that everything is possible , you decrease satisfaction .
you increase paralysis , and you decrease satisfaction .
everybody needs a fishbowl .
this one is almost certainly too limited -- perhaps even for the fish , certainly for us .
but the absence of some metaphorical fishbowl is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
i 'm going to talk today about energy and climate .
and that might seem a bit surprising because my full-time work at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds , about the things that we need to invent and deliver to help the poorest two billion live better lives .
but energy and climate are extremely important to these people -- in fact , more important than to anyone else on the planet .
the climate getting worse means that many years , their crops wo n't grow : there will be too much rain , not enough rain , things will change in ways that their fragile environment simply ca n't support .
and that leads to starvation , it leads to uncertainty , it leads to unrest .
so , the climate changes will be terrible for them .
also , the price of energy is very important to them .
in fact , if you could pick just one thing to lower the price of , to reduce poverty , by far you would pick energy .
now , the price of energy has come down over time .
really advanced civilization is based on advances in energy .
the coal revolution fueled the industrial revolution , and , even in the 1900s we 've seen a very rapid decline in the price of electricity , and that 's why we have refrigerators , air-conditioning , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
and so , we 're in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
but , as we make it cheaper -- and let 's go for making it twice as cheap -- we need to meet a new constraint , and that constraint has to do with co2 .
co2 is warming the planet , and the equation on co2 is actually a very straightforward one .
if you sum up the co2 that gets emitted , that leads to a temperature increase , and that temperature increase leads to some very negative effects : the effects on the weather ; perhaps worse , the indirect effects , in that the natural ecosystems ca n't adjust to these rapid changes , and so you get ecosystem collapses .
now , the exact amount of how you map from a certain increase of co2 to what temperature will be and where the positive feedbacks are , there 's some uncertainty there , but not very much .
and there 's certainly uncertainty about how bad those effects will be , but they will be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists on this several times : do we really have to get down to near zero ?
ca n't we just cut it in half or a quarter ?
and the answer is that until we get near to zero , the temperature will continue to rise .
and so that 's a big challenge .
it 's very different than saying `` we 're a twelve-foot-high truck trying to get under a ten-foot bridge , and we can just sort of squeeze under . ''
this is something that has to get to zero .
now , we put out a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
for each american , it 's about 20 tons ; for people in poor countries , it 's less than one ton .
it 's an average of about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and , somehow , we have to make changes that will bring that down to zero .
it 's been constantly going up .
it 's only various economic changes that have even flattened it at all , so we have to go from rapidly rising to falling , and falling all the way to zero .
probably , one of these numbers is going to have to get pretty near to zero .
now that 's back from high school algebra , but let 's take a look .
first , we 've got population .
the world today has 6.8 billion people .
that 's headed up to about nine billion .
now , if we do a really great job on new vaccines , health care , reproductive health services , we could lower that by , perhaps , 10 or 15 percent , but there we see an increase of about 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
this encompasses everything : the food we eat , clothing , tv , heating .
these are very good things : getting rid of poverty means providing these services to almost everyone on the planet .
and it 's a great thing for this number to go up .
in the rich world , perhaps the top one billion , we probably could cut back and use less , but every year , this number , on average , is going to go up , and so , over all , that will more than double the services delivered per person .
here we have a very basic service : do you have lighting in your house to be able to read your homework ?
and , in fact , these kids do n't , so they 're going out and reading their school work under the street lamps .
now , efficiency , e , the energy for each service , here finally we have some good news .
we have something that 's not going up .
through various inventions and new ways of doing lighting , through different types of cars , different ways of building buildings -- there are a lot of services where you can bring the energy for that service down quite substantially .
some individual services even bring it down by 90 percent .
there are other services like how we make fertilizer , or how we do air transport , where the rooms for improvement are far , far less .
and so , overall here , if we 're optimistic , we may get a reduction of a factor of three to even , perhaps , a factor of six .
but for these first three factors now , we 've gone from 26 billion to , at best , maybe 13 billion tons , and that just wo n't cut it .
so let 's look at this fourth factor -- this is going to be a key one -- and this is the amount of co2 put out per each unit of energy .
and so the question is : can you actually get that to zero ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every way we make electricity today , except for the emerging renewables and nuclear , puts out co2 .
and so , what we 're going to have to do at a global scale , is create a new system .
and so , we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term `` miracle , '' i do n't mean something that 's impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the personal computer is a miracle .
the internet and its services are a miracle .
so , the people here have participated in the creation of many miracles .
usually , we do n't have a deadline , where you have to get the miracle by a certain date .
usually , you just kind of stand by , and some come along , some do n't .
this is a case where we actually have to drive at full speed and get a miracle in a pretty tight timeline .
now , i thought , `` how could i really capture this ?
is there some kind of natural illustration , some demonstration that would grab people 's imagination here ? ''
i thought back to a year ago when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people enjoyed that .
it really got them involved in the idea of , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
so , with energy , all i could come up with is this .
i decided that releasing fireflies would be my contribution to the environment here this year .
so here we have some natural fireflies .
i 'm told they do n't bite ; in fact , they might not even leave that jar .
now , there 's all sorts of gimmicky solutions like that one , but they do n't really add up to much .
we need solutions -- either one or several -- that have unbelievable scale and unbelievable reliability , and , although there 's many directions people are seeking , i really only see five that can achieve the big numbers .
i 've left out tide , geothermal , fusion , biofuels .
those may make some contribution , and if they can do better than i expect , so much the better , but my key point here is that we 're going to have to work on each of these five , and we ca n't give up any of them because they look daunting , because they all have significant challenges .
let 's look first at the burning fossil fuels , either burning coal or burning natural gas .
what you need to do there , seems like it might be simple , but it 's not , and that 's to take all the co2 , after you 've burned it , going out the flue , pressurize it , create a liquid , put it somewhere , and hope it stays there .
now we have some pilot things that do this at the 60 to 80 percent level , but getting up to that full percentage , that will be very tricky , and agreeing on where these co2 quantities should be put will be hard , but the toughest one here is this long-term issue .
who 's going to be sure ?
who 's going to guarantee something that is literally billions of times larger than any type of waste you think of in terms of nuclear or other things ?
this is a lot of volume .
so that 's a tough one .
next would be nuclear .
it also has three big problems : cost , particularly in highly regulated countries , is high ; the issue of the safety , really feeling good about nothing could go wrong , that , even though you have these human operators , that the fuel does n't get used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
and , although it 's not very large , there are a lot of concerns about that .
people need to feel good about it .
so three very tough problems that might be solvable , and so , should be worked on .
the last three of the five , i 've grouped together .
these are what people often refer to as the renewable sources .
and they actually -- although it 's great they do n't require fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is that the density of energy gathered in these technologies is dramatically less than a power plant .
this is energy farming , so you 're talking about many square miles , thousands of time more area than you think of as a normal energy plant .
also , these are intermittent sources .
the sun does n't shine all day , it does n't shine every day , and , likewise , the wind does n't blow all the time .
and so , if you depend on these sources , you have to have some way of getting the energy during those time periods that it 's not available .
so , we 've got big cost challenges here , we have transmission challenges : for example , say this energy source is outside your country ; you not only need the technology , but you have to deal with the risk of the energy coming from elsewhere .
and , finally , this storage problem .
and , to dimensionalize this , i went through and looked at all the types of batteries that get made -- for cars , for computers , for phones , for flashlights , for everything -- and compared that to the amount of electrical energy the world uses , and what i found is that all the batteries we make now could store less than 10 minutes of all the energy .
and so , in fact , we need a big breakthrough here , something that 's going to be a factor of 100 better than the approaches we have now .
it 's not impossible , but it 's not a very easy thing .
now , this shows up when you try to get the intermittent source to be above , say , 20 to 30 percent of what you 're using .
if you 're counting on it for 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , how we 're going to go forward on this -- what 's the right approach ?
is it a manhattan project ? what 's the thing that can get us there ?
well , we need lots of companies working on this , hundreds .
in each of these five paths , we need at least a hundred people .
and a lot of them , you 'll look at and say , `` they 're crazy . '' that 's good .
and , i think , here in the ted group , we have many people who are already pursuing this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar that has some great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla 's investing in dozens of companies that are doing great things and have interesting possibilities , and i 'm trying to help back that .
nathan myhrvold and i actually are backing a company that , perhaps surprisingly , is actually taking the nuclear approach .
there are some innovations in nuclear : modular , liquid .
and innovation really stopped in this industry quite some ago , so the idea that there 's some good ideas laying around is not all that surprising .
the idea of terrapower is that , instead of burning a part of uranium -- the one percent , which is the u235 -- we decided , `` let 's burn the 99 percent , the u238 . ''
it is kind of a crazy idea .
in fact , people had talked about it for a long time , but they could never simulate properly whether it would work or not , and so it 's through the advent of modern supercomputers that now you can simulate and see that , yes , with the right material 's approach , this looks like it would work .
and , because you 're burning that 99 percent , you have greatly improved cost profile .
you actually burn up the waste , and you can actually use as fuel all the leftover waste from today 's reactors .
so , instead of worrying about them , you just take that . it 's a great thing .
it breathes this uranium as it goes along , so it 's kind of like a candle .
you can see it 's a log there , often referred to as a traveling wave reactor .
in terms of fuel , this really solves the problem .
i 've got a picture here of a place in kentucky .
this is the leftover , the 99 percent , where they 've taken out the part they burn now , so it 's called depleted uranium .
that would power the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and , simply by filtering seawater in an inexpensive process , you 'd have enough fuel for the entire lifetime of the rest of the planet .
so , you know , it 's got lots of challenges ahead , but it is an example of the many hundreds and hundreds of ideas that we need to move forward .
so let 's think : how should we measure ourselves ?
what should our report card look like ?
well , let 's go out to where we really need to get , and then look at the intermediate .
for 2050 , you 've heard many people talk about this 80 percent reduction .
that really is very important , that we get there .
and that 20 percent will be used up by things going on in poor countries , still some agriculture , hopefully we will have cleaned up forestry , cement .
so , to get to that 80 percent , the developed countries , including countries like china , will have had to switch their electricity generation altogether .
so , the other grade is : are we deploying this zero-emission technology , have we deployed it in all the developed countries and we 're in the process of getting it elsewhere ?
that 's super important .
that 's a key element of making that report card .
so , backing up from there , what should the 2020 report card look like ?
well , again , it should have the two elements .
we should go through these efficiency measures to start getting reductions : the less we emit , the less that sum will be of co2 , and , therefore , the less the temperature .
but in some ways , the grade we get there , doing things that do n't get us all the way to the big reductions , is only equally , or maybe even slightly less , important than the other , which is the piece of innovation on these breakthroughs .
these breakthroughs , we need to move those at full speed , and we can measure that in terms of companies , pilot projects , regulatory things that have been changed .
there 's a lot of great books that have been written about this .
the al gore book , `` our choice '' and the david mckay book , `` sustainable energy without the hot air . ''
they really go through it and create a framework that this can be discussed broadly , because we need broad backing for this .
there 's a lot that has to come together .
so this is a wish .
it 's a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you gave me only one wish for the next 50 years -- i could pick who 's president , i could pick a vaccine , which is something i love , or i could pick that this thing that 's half the cost with no co2 gets invented -- this is the wish i would pick .
this is the one with the greatest impact .
if we do n't get this wish , the division between the people who think short term and long term will be terrible , between the u.s. and china , between poor countries and rich , and most of all the lives of those two billion will be far worse .
so , what do we have to do ?
what am i appealing to you to step forward and drive ?
we need to go for more research funding .
when countries get together in places like copenhagen , they should n't just discuss the co2 .
they should discuss this innovation agenda , and you 'd be stunned at the ridiculously low levels of spending on these innovative approaches .
we do need the market incentives -- co2 tax , cap and trade -- something that gets that price signal out there .
we need to get the message out .
we need to have this dialogue be a more rational , more understandable dialogue , including the steps that the government takes .
this is an important wish , but it is one i think we can achieve .
thank you . thank you .
thank you . so to understand more about terrapower , right -- i mean , first of all , can you give a sense of what scale of investment this is ?
bil gates : to actually do the software , buy the supercomputer , hire all the great scientists , which we 've done , that 's only tens of millions , and even once we test our materials out in a russian reactor to make sure that our materials work properly , then you 'll only be up in the hundreds of millions .
the tough thing is building the pilot reactor ; finding the several billion , finding the regulator , the location that will actually build the first one of these .
once you get the first one built , if it works as advertised , then it 's just clear as day , because the economics , the energy density , are so different than nuclear as we know it .
and so , to understand it right , this involves building deep into the ground almost like a vertical kind of column of nuclear fuel , of this sort of spent uranium , and then the process starts at the top and kind of works down ?
bg : that 's right . today , you 're always refueling the reactor , so you have lots of people and lots of controls that can go wrong : that thing where you 're opening it up and moving things in and out , that 's not good .
so , if you have very cheap fuel that you can put 60 years in -- just think of it as a log -- put it down and not have those same complexities .
and it just sits there and burns for the 60 years , and then it 's done .
it 's a nuclear power plant that is its own waste disposal solution .
bg : yeah . well , what happens with the waste , you can let it sit there -- there 's a lot less waste under this approach -- then you can actually take that , and put it into another one and burn that .
and we start off actually by taking the waste that exists today , that 's sitting in these cooling pools or dry casking by reactors -- that 's our fuel to begin with .
so , the thing that 's been a problem from those reactors is actually what gets fed into ours , and you 're reducing the volume of the waste quite dramatically as you 're going through this process .
i mean , you 're talking to different people around the world about the possibilities here .
where is there most interest in actually doing something with this ?
bg : well , we have n't picked a particular place , and there 's all these interesting disclosure rules about anything that 's called `` nuclear , '' so we 've got a lot of interest , that people from the company have been in russia , india , china -- i 've been back seeing the secretary of energy here , talking about how this fits into the energy agenda .
so i 'm optimistic . you know , the french and japanese have done some work .
this is a variant on something that has been done .
it 's an important advance , but it 's like a fast reactor , and a lot of countries have built them , so anybody who 's done a fast reactor is a candidate to be where the first one gets built .
so , in your mind , timescale and likelihood of actually taking something like this live ?
bg : well , we need -- for one of these high-scale , electro-generation things that 's very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to deploy .
that 's sort of the deadline that the environmental models have shown us that we have to meet .
and , you know , terrapower , if things go well -- which is wishing for a lot -- could easily meet that .
and there are , fortunately now , dozens of companies -- we need it to be hundreds -- who , likewise , if their science goes well , if the funding for their pilot plants goes well , that they can compete for this .
and it 's best if multiple succeed , because then you could use a mix of these things .
we certainly need one to succeed .
in terms of big-scale possible game changes , is this the biggest that you 're aware of out there ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
it would have been , even without the environmental constraint , but the environmental constraint just makes it so much greater .
in the nuclear space , there are other innovators .
you know , we do n't know their work as well as we know this one , but the modular people , that 's a different approach .
there 's a liquid-type reactor , which seems a little hard , but maybe they say that about us .
and so , there are different ones , but the beauty of this is a molecule of uranium has a million times as much energy as a molecule of , say , coal , and so -- if you can deal with the negatives , which are essentially the radiation -- the footprint and cost , the potential , in terms of effect on land and various things , is almost in a class of its own .
if this does n't work , then what ?
do we have to start taking emergency measures to try and keep the temperature of the earth stable ?
bg : if you get into that situation , it 's like if you 've been over-eating , and you 're about to have a heart attack : then where do you go ? you may need heart surgery or something .
there is a line of research on what 's called geoengineering , which are various techniques that would delay the heating to buy us 20 or 30 years to get our act together .
now , that 's just an insurance policy .
you hope you do n't need to do that .
some people say you should n't even work on the insurance policy because it might make you lazy , that you 'll keep eating because you know heart surgery will be there to save you .
i 'm not sure that 's wise , given the importance of the problem , but there 's now the geoengineering discussion about -- should that be in the back pocket in case things happen faster , or this innovation goes a lot slower than we expect ?
climate skeptics : if you had a sentence or two to say to them , how might you persuade them that they 're wrong ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics come in different camps .
the ones who make scientific arguments are very few .
are they saying that there 's negative feedback effects that have to do with clouds that offset things ?
there are very , very few things that they can even say there 's a chance in a million of those things .
the main problem we have here , it 's kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so , when you have all sorts of urgent problems , the idea of taking pain now that has to do with a gain later , and a somewhat uncertain pain thing -- in fact , the ipcc report , that 's not necessarily the worst case , and there are people in the rich world who look at ipcc and say , `` ok , that is n't that big of a deal . ''
the fact is it 's that uncertain part that should move us towards this .
but my dream here is that , if you can make it economic , and meet the co2 constraints , then the skeptics say , `` ok , i do n't care that it does n't put out co2 , i kind of wish it did put out co2 , but i guess i 'll accept it because it 's cheaper than what 's come before . ''
and so , that would be your response to the bjorn lomborg argument , that basically if you spend all this energy trying to solve the co2 problem , it 's going to take away all your other goals of trying to rid the world of poverty and malaria and so forth , it 's a stupid waste of the earth 's resources to put money towards that when there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on the r&d piece -- say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than it is right now -- it 's not that dramatic .
it should n't take away from other things .
the thing you get into big money on , and this , reasonable people can disagree , is when you have something that 's non-economic and you 're trying to fund that -- that , to me , mostly is a waste .
unless you 're very close and you 're just funding the learning curve and it 's going to get very cheap , i believe we should try more things that have a potential to be far less expensive .
if the trade-off you get into is , `` let 's make energy super expensive , '' then the rich can afford that .
i mean , all of us here could pay five times as much for our energy and not change our lifestyle .
the disaster is for that two billion .
and even lomborg has changed .
his shtick now is , `` why is n't the r&d getting more discussed ? ''
he 's still , because of his earlier stuff , still associated with the skeptic camp , but he 's realized that 's a pretty lonely camp , and so , he 's making the r&d point .
and so there is a thread of something that i think is appropriate .
the r&d piece , it 's crazy how little it 's funded .
well bill , i suspect i speak on the behalf of most people here to say i really hope your wish comes true . thank you so much .
bg : thank you .
let 's pretend right here we have a machine .
a big machine , a cool , ted-ish machine , and it 's a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to get into it .
and you can go backwards , you can go forwards ; you can not stay where you are .
and i wonder what you 'd choose , because i 've been asking my friends this question a lot lately and they all want to go back .
i do n't know . they want to go back before there were automobiles or twitter or `` american idol . ''
i do n't know .
i 'm convinced that there 's some sort of pull to nostalgia , to wishful thinking .
and i understand that .
i 'm not part of that crowd , i have to say .
i do n't want to go back , and it 's not because i 'm adventurous .
it 's because possibilities on this planet , they do n't go back , they go forward .
so i want to get in the machine , and i want to go forward .
this is the greatest time there 's ever been on this planet by any measure that you wish to choose : health , wealth , mobility , opportunity , declining rates of disease ...
there 's never been a time like this .
my great-grandparents died , all of them , by the time they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed that number to 70 .
my parents are closing in on 80 .
so there better be a nine at the beginning of my death number .
but it 's not even about people like us , because this is a bigger deal than that .
a kid born in new delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world did 100 years ago .
think about that , it 's an incredible fact .
and why is it true ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
it reshaped the demography of the globe in a way that no war ever has .
it 's gone . it 's vanished .
we vanquished it . puff .
in the rich world , diseases that threatened millions of us just a generation ago no longer exist , hardly .
diphtheria , rubella , polio ...
does anyone even know what those things are ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , those are triumphs of the scientific method .
and to my mind , the scientific method -- trying stuff out , seeing if it works , changing it when it does n't -- is one of the great accomplishments of humanity .
so that 's the good news .
unfortunately , that 's all the good news because there are some other problems , and they 've been mentioned many times .
and one of them is that despite all our accomplishments , a billion people go to bed hungry in this world every day .
that number 's rising , and it 's rising really rapidly , and it 's disgraceful .
and not only that , we 've used our imagination to thoroughly trash this globe .
potable water , arable land , rainforests , oil , gas : they 're going away , and they 're going away soon , and unless we innovate our way out of this mess , we 're going away too .
so the question is : can we do that ? and i think we can .
i think it 's clear that we can make food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world with energy that does n't also destroy it .
i really do believe that , and , no , it ai n't wishful thinking .
but here 's the thing that keeps me up at night -- one of the things that keeps me up at night : we 've never needed progress in science more than we need it right now . never .
and we 've also never been in a position to deploy it properly in the way that we can today .
we 're on the verge of amazing , amazing events in many fields , and yet i actually think we 'd have to go back hundreds , 300 years , before the enlightenment , to find a time when we battled progress , when we fought about these things more vigorously , on more fronts , than we do now .
people wrap themselves in their beliefs , and they do it so tightly that you ca n't set them free .
not even the truth will set them free .
and , listen , everyone 's entitled to their opinion ; they 're even entitled to their opinion about progress .
but you know what you 're not entitled to ?
you 're not entitled to your own facts . sorry , you 're not .
and this took me awhile to figure out .
about a decade ago , i wrote a story about vaccines for the new yorker . a little story .
and i was amazed to find opposition : opposition to what is , after all , the most effective public health measure in human history .
i did n't know what to do , so i just did what i do : i wrote a story and i moved on .
and soon after that , i wrote a story about genetically engineered food .
same thing , only bigger .
people were going crazy .
so i wrote a story about that too , and i could n't understand why people thought this was `` frankenfoods , '' why they thought moving molecules around in a specific , rather than a haphazard way , was trespassing on nature 's ground .
but , you know , i do what i do . i wrote the story , i moved on .
i mean , i 'm a journalist .
we type , we file , we go to dinner . it 's fine .
but these stories bothered me , and i could n't figure out why , and eventually i did .
and that 's because those fanatics that were driving me crazy were n't actually fanatics at all .
they were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were exactly like the people in this room .
and it just disturbed me so much .
but then i thought , you know , let 's be honest .
we 're at a point in this world where we do n't have the same relationship to progress that we used to .
we talk about it ambivalently .
we talk about it in ironic terms with little quotes around it : `` progress . ''
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what those reasons are .
we 've lost faith in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there 's no reason we should n't have .
you can just say a few names and people will understand .
there are questions and problems with the people we used to believe were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , demand proof , demand evidence .
do n't take anything for granted .
but here 's the thing : when you get proof , you need to accept the proof , and we 're not that good at doing that .
and the reason that i can say that is because we 're now in an epidemic of fear like one i 've never seen and hope never to see again .
about 12 years ago , there was a story published , a horrible story , that linked the epidemic of autism to the measles , mumps and rubella vaccine shot .
very scary .
tons of studies were done to see if this was true .
tons of studies should have been done ; it 's a serious issue .
the data came back .
the data came back from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and it was all the same : no correlation , no connection , none at all .
it does n't matter . it does n't matter because we believe anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we think we see , what makes us feel real .
we do n't believe a bunch of documents from a government official giving us data , and i do understand that , i think we all do .
but you know what ?
the result of that has been disastrous .
disastrous because here 's a fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccine rate for measles is going down .
that is disgraceful , and we should be ashamed of ourselves .
it 's horrible .
what kind of a thing happened that we could do that ?
now , i understand it . i do understand it .
because , did anyone have measles here ?
has one person in this audience ever seen someone die of measles ?
does n't happen very much .
does n't happen in this country at all , but it happened 160,000 times in the world last year .
that 's a lot of death of measles -- 20 an hour .
but since it did n't happen here , we can put it out of our minds , and people like jenny mccarthy can go around preaching messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like `` oprah '' and `` larry king live . ''
and they can do it because they do n't link causation and correlation .
they do n't understand that these things seem the same , but they 're almost never the same .
and it 's something we need to learn , and we need to learn it really soon .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he took one of the worst scourges of mankind away from us .
no fear , no agony . polio -- puff , gone .
that guy in the middle , not so much .
his name is paul offit .
he just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a bunch of other people .
it 'll save the lives of 400 to 500,000 kids in the developing world every year .
pretty good , right ?
well , it 's good , except that paul goes around talking about vaccines and says how valuable they are and that people ought to just stop the whining .
and he actually says it that way .
so , paul 's a terrorist .
when paul speaks in a public hearing , he ca n't testify without armed guards .
he gets called at home because people like to tell him that they remember where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
i do n't need to say this , but vaccines are essential .
you take them away , disease comes back , horrible diseases . and that 's happening .
we have measles in this country now .
and it 's getting worse , and pretty soon kids are going to die of it again because it 's just a numbers game .
and they 're not just going to die of measles .
what about polio ? let 's have that . why not ?
a college classmate of mine wrote me a couple weeks ago and said she thought i was a little strident .
no one 's ever said that before .
she was n't going to vaccinate her kid against polio , no way .
fine .
why ? because we do n't have polio . and you know what ?
we did n't have polio in this country yesterday .
today , i do n't know , maybe a guy got on a plane in lagos this morning , and he 's flying to lax , right now he 's over ohio .
and he 's going to land in a couple of hours , he 's going to rent a car , and he 's going to come to long beach , and he 's going to attend one of these fabulous ted dinners tonight .
and he does n't know that he 's infected with a paralytic disease , and we do n't either because that 's the way the world works .
that 's the planet we live on . do n't pretend it is n't .
now , we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love to do it .
everyone take their vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidant to get you going .
i know you did because half of americans do every day .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative medicines , and it does n't matter how often we find out that they 're useless .
the data says it all the time .
they darken your urine . they almost never do more than that .
it 's okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine ?
i 'm totally with you .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand , we hate big pharma .
we hate big government . we do n't trust the man .
and we should n't : our health care system sucks .
it 's absolutely astonishingly cold and soul-bending to those of us who can even afford it .
so we run away from it , and where do we run ?
we leap into the arms of big placebo .
that 's fantastic . i love big placebo .
but , you know , it 's really a serious thing because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all sorts of little props here .
none of it ... ginkgo , fraud ; echinacea , fraud ; acai -- i do n't even know what that is but we 're spending billions of dollars on it -- it 's fraud .
and you know what ? when i say this stuff , people scream at me , and they say , `` what do you care ? let people do what they want to do .
it makes them feel good . ''
because i do n't care if it 's the secretary of hhs who 's saying , `` hmm , i 'm not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammograms , '' or some cancer quack who wants to treat his patient with coffee enemas .
when you start down the road where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you end up in a place you do n't want to be .
he killed 400,000 of his people by insisting that beetroot , garlic and lemon oil were much more effective than the antiretroviral drugs we know can slow the course of aids .
please , do n't tell me there are no consequences to these things .
now , the most mindless epidemic we 're in the middle of right now is this absurd battle between proponents of genetically engineered food and the organic elite .
it 's an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
it 's ideology , it 's not science .
every single thing we eat , every grain of rice , every sprig of parsley , every brussels sprout has been modified by man .
there were n't christmas trees . we made it all .
and some of it worked , and some of it did n't .
we got rid of the stuff that did n't .
now we can do it in a more precise way -- and there are risks , absolutely -- but we can put something like vitamin a into rice , and that stuff can help millions of people , millions of people , prolong their lives .
i have to say , i do n't understand it .
we object to genetically engineered food .
well , the things i constantly hear are : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we do n't want giant fields of the same thing , that 's wrong .
we do n't companies patenting life .
we do n't want companies owning seeds .
it 's true , we 've got a huge food problem , but this is n't science .
it 's law , it 's morality , it 's patent stuff .
it 's not even an idea ; it 's a process .
it 's a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it does n't , but the idea that we should not allow science to do its job because we 're afraid , is really very deadening , and it 's preventing millions of people from prospering .
you know , in the next 50 years we 're going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we do right now , 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
they need it , and we 're not giving it to them .
and why ? genetically engineered food .
we do n't want to encourage people to eat that rotten stuff , like cassava for instance .
cassava 's something that half a billion people eat .
it 's kind of like a potato .
it does n't have nutrients , it does n't have protein , and scientists are engineering all of that into it right now .
and then people would be able to eat it and they 'd be able to not go blind .
i mean , let 's ask ourselves : why are we fighting it ?
it 's not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our insistence on having bigger food , better food , singular food .
this is n't about rice krispies , this is about keeping people alive , and it 's about time we started to understand what that meant .
if we do n't , if we continue to act the way we 're acting , we 're guilty of something that i do n't think we want to be guilty of : high-tech colonialism .
there 's no other way to describe what 's going on here .
it 's selfish , it 's ugly , it 's beneath us , and we really have to stop it .
so after this amazingly fun conversation , you might want to say , `` so , you still want to get in this ridiculous time machine and go forward ? ''
we can set that time machine on anything we want .
we can move it where we want to move it , and we 're going to move it where we want to move it .
we have to have these conversations and we have to think , but when we get in the time machine and we go ahead , we 're going to be happy we do .
i know that we can , and as far as i 'm concerned , that 's something the world needs right now .
i had somebody count the number of books with `` happiness '' in the title published in the last five years and they gave up after about 40 , and there were many more .
there is a huge wave of interest in happiness , among researchers .
there is a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but in spite of all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that sort of make it almost impossible to think straight about happiness .
and my talk today will be mostly about these cognitive traps .
this applies to laypeople thinking about their own happiness , and it applies to scholars thinking about happiness , because it turns out we 're just as messed up as anybody else is .
the first of these traps is a reluctance to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word `` happiness '' is just not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there is one particular meaning to which we might restrict it , but by and large , this is something that we 'll have to give up and we 'll have to adopt the more complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion between experience and memory ; basically , it 's between being happy in your life , and being happy about your life or happy with your life .
and those are two very different concepts , and they 're both lumped in the notion of happiness .
and the third is the focusing illusion , and it 's the unfortunate fact that we ca n't think about any circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its importance .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there 's just no way of getting it right .
now , i 'd like to start with an example of somebody who had a question-and-answer session after one of my lectures reported a story , and that was a story -- he said he 'd been listening to a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music and at the very end of the recording , there was a dreadful screeching sound .
and then he added , really quite emotionally , it ruined the whole experience .
but it had n't .
what it had ruined were the memories of the experience .
he had had the experience .
they counted for nothing because he was left with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all that he had gotten to keep .
what this is telling us , really , is that we might be thinking of ourselves and of other people in terms of two selves .
there is an experiencing self , who lives in the present and knows the present , is capable of re-living the past , but basically it has only the present .
it 's the experiencing self that the doctor approaches -- you know , when the doctor asks , `` does it hurt now when i touch you here ? ''
and then there is a remembering self , and the remembering self is the one that keeps score , and maintains the story of our life , and it 's the one that the doctor approaches in asking the question , `` how have you been feeling lately ? ''
or `` how was your trip to albania ? '' or something like that .
those are two very different entities , the experiencing self and the remembering self , and getting confused between them is part of the mess about the notion of happiness .
