and , perhaps , if we see adversity as natural , consistent and useful , we 're less burdened by the presence of it .
to paraphrase : it 's not the strongest of the species that survives , nor is it the most intelligent that survives ; it is the one that is most adaptable to change .
so , again , transformation , adaptation , is our greatest human skill .
and , perhaps , until we 're tested , we do n't know what we 're made of .
so , we can give ourselves a gift .
there 's common , there 's typical . there 's no normal , and would you want to meet that poor , beige person if they existed ?
if we can change this paradigm from one of achieving normalcy to one of possibility -- or potency , to be even a little bit more dangerous -- we can release the power of so many more children , and invite them to engage their rare and valuable abilities with the community .
anthropologists tell us that the one thing we as humans have always required of our community members is to be of use , to be able to contribute .
there 's evidence that neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , carried their elderly and those with serious physical injury , and perhaps it 's because the life experience of survival of these people proved of value to the community .
they did n't view these people as broken and useless ; they were seen as rare and valuable .
a few years ago , i was in a food market in the town where i grew up in that red zone in northeastern pennsylvania , and i was standing over a bushel of tomatoes .
it was summertime : i had shorts on .
and i said , `` i 'm sorry , sir , have we met ? i do n't remember meeting you . ''
i mean , when we met i was delivering you from your mother 's womb . ''
and , but of course , actually , it did click .
this man was dr. kean , a man that i had only known about through my mother 's stories of that day , because , of course , typical fashion , i arrived late for my birthday by two weeks .
and , because i was born without the fibula bones , and had feet turned in , and a few toes in this foot and a few toes in that , he had to be the bearer -- this stranger had to be the bearer of bad news .
the extraordinary thing is that he said he had saved newspaper clippings throughout my whole childhood , whether winning a second grade spelling bee , marching with the girl scouts , you know , the halloween parade , winning my college scholarship , or any of my sports victories , and he was using it , and integrating it into teaching resident students , med students from hahnemann medical school and hershey medical school .
and he called this part of the course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
no prognosis can account for how powerful this could be as a determinant in the quality of someone 's life .
and dr. kean went on to tell me , he said , `` in my experience , unless repeatedly told otherwise , and even if given a modicum of support , if left to their own devices , a child will achieve . ''
see , dr. kean made that shift in thinking .
and there 's been a shift in my thinking over time , in that , if you had asked me at 15 years old , if i would have traded prosthetics for flesh-and-bone legs , i would n't have hesitated for a second .
but if you ask me today , i 'm not so sure .
and it 's because of the experiences i 've had with them , not in spite of the experiences i 've had with them .
and perhaps this shift in me has happened because i 've been exposed to more people who have opened doors for me than those who have put lids and cast shadows on me .
see , all you really need is one person to show you the epiphany of your own power , and you 're off .
if you can hand somebody the key to their own power -- the human spirit is so receptive -- if you can do that and open a door for someone at a crucial moment , you are educating them in the best sense .
you 're teaching them to open doors for themselves .
in fact , the exact meaning of the word `` educate '' comes from the root word `` educe . ''
it means `` to bring forth what is within , to bring out potential . ''
so again , which potential do we want to bring out ?
there was a case study done in 1960s britain , when they were moving from grammar schools to comprehensive schools .
it 's called the streaming trials . we call it `` tracking '' here in the states .
it 's separating students from a , b , c , d and so on .
and the `` a students '' get the tougher curriculum , the best teachers , etc. .
well , they took , over a three-month period , d-level students , gave them a 's , told them they were `` a 's , '' told them they were bright , and at the end of this three-month period , they were performing at a-level .
and , of course , the heartbreaking , flip side of this study , is that they took the `` a students '' and told them they were `` d 's . ''
and that 's what happened at the end of that three-month period .
those who were still around in school , besides the people who had dropped out .
a crucial part of this case study was that the teachers were duped too .
the teachers did n't know a switch had been made .
they were simply told , `` these are the ` a-students , ' these are the ' d - students . ' '' and that 's how they went about teaching them and treating them .
so , i think that the only true disability is a crushed spirit , a spirit that 's been crushed does n't have hope , it does n't see beauty , it no longer has our natural , childlike curiosity and our innate ability to imagine .
if instead , we can bolster a human spirit to keep hope , to see beauty in themselves and others , to be curious and imaginative , then we are truly using our power well .
when a spirit has those qualities , we are able to create new realities and new ways of being .
i 'd like to leave you with a poem by a fourteenth-century persian poet named hafiz that my friend , jacques dembois told me about , and the poem is called `` the god who only knows four words '' : `` every child has known god , not the god of names , not the god of do n'ts , but the god who only knows four words and keeps repeating them , saying , ` come dance with me .
come , dance with me . come , dance with me . ' '' thank you .
if i can leave you with one big idea today , it 's that the whole of the data in which we consume is greater that the sum of the parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , what i 'd like you to think about is how we can use information so that patterns pop and we can see trends that would otherwise be invisible .
so what we 're looking at right here is a typical mortality chart organized by age .
this tool that i 'm using here is a little experiment .
it 's called pivot , and with pivot what i can do is i can choose to filter in one particular cause of deaths -- say , accidents .
and , right away , i see there 's a different pattern that emerges .
this is because , in the mid-area here , people are at their most active , and over here they 're at their most frail .
we can step back out again and then reorganize the data by cause of death , seeing that circulatory diseases and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
if we go ahead and we filter by age -- say 40 years or less -- we see that accidents are actually the greatest cause that people have to be worried about .
and if you drill into that , it 's especially the case for men .
so you get the idea that viewing information , viewing data in this way , is a lot like swimming in a living information info-graphic .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not do it for content as well ?
so what we have right here is the cover of every single sports illustrated ever produced .
it 's all here ; it 's all on the web .
you can go back to your rooms and try this after my talk .
with pivot , you can drill into a decade .
you can drill into a particular year .
you can jump right into a specific issue .
so i 'm looking at this ; i see the athletes that have appeared in this issue , the sports .
i 'm a lance armstrong fan , so i 'll go ahead and i 'll click on that , which reveals , for me , all the issues in which lance armstrong 's been a part of .
now , if i want to just kind of take a peek at these , i might think , `` well , what about taking a look at all of cycling ? ''
so i can step back , and expand on that .
and i see greg lemond now .
and so you get the idea that when you navigate over information this way -- going narrower , broader , backing in , backing out -- you 're not searching , you 're not browsing .
you 're doing something that 's actually a little bit different .
it 's in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to extrapolate on this idea a bit with something that 's a little bit crazy .
what we 're done here is we 've taken every single wikipedia page and we reduced it down to a little summary .
so the summary consists of just a little synopsis and an icon to indicate the topical area that it comes from .
i 'm only showing the top 500 most popular wikipedia pages right here .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
right away , we get a sense of what are the topical domains that are most popular on wikipedia .
i 'm going to go ahead and select government .
now , having selected government , i can now see that the wikipedia categories that most frequently correspond to that are time magazine people of the year .
so this is really important because this is an insight that was not contained within any one wikipedia page .
it 's only possible to see that insight when you step back and look at all of them .
looking at one of these particular summaries , i can then drill into the concept of time magazine person of the year , bringing up all of them .
so looking at these people , i can see that the majority come from government ; some have come from natural sciences ; some , fewer still , have come from business -- there 's my boss -- and one has come from music .
and interestingly enough , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can go , jump , and take a look at all the ted prize winners .
so you see , we 're navigating the web for the first time as if it 's actually a web , not from page-to-page , but at a higher level of abstraction .
and so i want to show you one other thing that may catch you a little bit by surprise .
i 'm just showing the new york times website here .
so pivot , this application -- i do n't want to call it a browser ; it 's really not a browser , but you can view web pages with it -- and we bring that zoomable technology to every single web page like this .
so i can step back , pop right back into a specific section .
now the reason why this is important is because , by virtue of just viewing web pages in this way , i can look at my entire browsing history in the exact same way .
so i can drill into what i 've done over specific time frames .
here , in fact , is the state of all the demo that i just gave .
and i can sort of replay some stuff that i was looking at earlier today .
and , if i want to step back and look at everything , i can slice and dice my history , perhaps by my search history -- here , i was doing some nepotistic searching , looking for bing , over here for live labs pivot .
and from these , i can drill into the web page and just launch them again .
it 's one metaphor repurposed multiple times , and in each case it makes the whole greater than the sum of the parts with the data .
so right now , in this world , we think about data as being this curse .
we talk about the curse of information overload .
we talk about drowning in data .
what if we can actually turn that upside down and turn the web upside down , so that instead of navigating from one thing to the next , we get used to the habit of being able to go from many things to many things , and then being able to see the patterns that were otherwise hidden ?
if we can do that , then instead of being trapped in data , we might actually extract information .
and , instead of dealing just with information , we can tease out knowledge .
and if we get the knowledge , then maybe even there 's wisdom to be found .
so with that , i thank you .
several years ago here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design challenge called the marshmallow challenge .
and the idea 's pretty simple : teams of four have to build the tallest free-standing structure out of 20 sticks of spaghetti , one yard of tape , one yard of string and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and , though it seems really simple , it 's actually pretty hard because it forces people to collaborate very quickly .
and so , i thought this was an interesting idea , and i incorporated it into a design workshop .
and it was a huge success .
and since then , i 've conducted about 70 design workshops across the world with students and designers and architects , even the ctos of the fortune 50 , and there 's something about this exercise that reveals very deep lessons about the nature of collaboration , and i 'd like to share some of them with you .
so , normally , most people begin by orienting themselves to the task .
they talk about it , they figure out what it 's going to look like , they jockey for power .
then they spend some time planning , organizing , they sketch and they lay out spaghetti .
they spend the majority of their time assembling the sticks into ever-growing structures .
and then finally , just as they 're running out of time , someone takes out the marshmallow , and then they gingerly put it on top , and then they stand back , and -- ta-da ! -- they admire their work .
but what really happens , most of the time , is that the `` ta-da '' turns into an `` uh-oh , '' because the weight of the marshmallow causes the entire structure to buckle and to collapse .
so there are a number of people who have a lot more `` uh-oh '' moments than others , and among the worst are recent graduates of business school .
they lie , they cheat , they get distracted and they produce really lame structures .
and of course there are teams that have a lot more `` ta-da '' structures , and among the best are recent graduates of kindergarten .
and it 's pretty amazing .
as peter tells us , not only do they produce the tallest structures , but they 're the most interesting structures of them all .
so the question you want to ask is : how come ? why ? what is it about them ?
and peter likes to say that none of the kids spend any time trying to be ceo of spaghetti , inc. . right ?
they do n't spend time jockeying for power .
but there 's another reason as well .
and the reason is that business students are trained to find the single right plan , right ?
and then they execute on it .
and then what happens is , when they put the marshmallow on the top , they run out of time and what happens ?
it 's a crisis .
sound familiar ? right .
what kindergarteners do differently is that they start with the marshmallow , and they build prototypes , successive prototypes , always keeping the marshmallow on top , so they have multiple times to fix when they build prototypes along the way .
designers recognize this type of collaboration as the essence of the iterative process .
and with each version , kids get instant feedback about what works and what does n't work .
so the capacity to play in prototype is really essential , but let 's look at how different teams perform .
so the average for most people is around 20 inches ; business schools students , about half of that ; lawyers , a little better , but not much better than that , kindergarteners , better than most adults .
who does the very best ?
thirty-nine inches is the tallest structure i 've seen .
so ceos , a little bit better than average , but here 's where it gets interesting .
if you put you put an executive admin . on the team , they get significantly better .
it 's incredible . you know , you look around , you go , `` oh , that team 's going to win . ''
you can just tell beforehand . and why is that ?
because they have special skills of facilitation .
and any team who manages and pays close attention to work will significantly improve the team 's performance .
specialized skills and facilitation skills are the combination that leads to strong success .
if you have 10 teams that typically perform , you 'll get maybe six or so that have standing structures .
i thought , let 's up the ante , once .
here 's what happened : not one team had a standing structure .
if anyone had built , say , a one inch structure , they would have taken home the prize .
so there 's deep lessons for us about the nature of incentives and success .
so , you might ask : why would anyone actually spend time writing a marshmallow challenge ?
and the reason is , i help create digital tools and processes to help teams build cars and video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify the hidden assumptions .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , a common stance to build the right prototype .
and those of you who are interested may want to go to marshmallowchallenge.com .
it 's a blog that you can look at how to build the marshmallows .
there 's step-by-step instructions on this .
there are crazy examples from around the world of how people tweak and adjust the system .
there 's world records that are on this as well .
it demands that we bring all of our senses to the task , and that we apply the very best of our thinking , our feeling and our doing to the challenge that we have at hand .
and sometimes , a little prototype of this experience is all that it takes to turn us from an `` uh-oh '' moment to a `` ta-da '' moment .
now -- -- the problem -- the problem is that even those of us sympathetic with the plight of indigenous people view them as quaint and colorful but somehow reduced to the margins of history as the real world , meaning our world , moves on .
well , the truth is the 20th century , 300 years from now , is not going to be remembered for its wars or its technological innovations , but rather as the era in which we stood by and either actively endorsed or passively accepted the massive destruction of both biological and cultural diversity on the planet . now , the problem is n't change .
all cultures through all time have constantly been engaged in a dance with new possibilities of life .
the sioux indians did not stop being sioux when they gave up the bow and arrow any more than an american stopped being an american when he gave up the horse and buggy .
wherever you look around the world , you discover that these are not cultures destined to fade away ; these are dynamic living peoples being driven out of existence by identifiable forces that are beyond their capacity to adapt to : whether it 's the egregious deforestation in the homeland of the penan -- a nomadic people from southeast asia , from sarawak -- a people who lived free in the forest until a generation ago , and now have all been reduced to servitude and prostitution on the banks of the rivers , where you can see the river itself is soiled with the silt that seems to be carrying half of borneo away to the south china sea , where the japanese freighters hang light in the horizon ready to fill their holds with raw logs ripped from the forest -- or , in the case of the yanomami , it 's the disease entities that have come in , in the wake of the discovery of gold .
or if we go into the mountains of tibet , where i 'm doing a lot of research recently , you 'll see it 's a crude face of political domination .
you know , genocide , the physical extinction of a people is universally condemned , but ethnocide , the destruction of people 's way of life , is not only not condemned , it 's universally , in many quarters , celebrated as part of a development strategy .
and you can not understand the pain of tibet until you move through it at the ground level .
