dark urine . dark .
it 's cruel to millions of people .
and you know what ? you 're wrong .
you end up in thabo mbeki south africa .
hundreds of thousands of needless deaths in a country that has been plagued worse than any other by this disease .
there are . there always are .
it 's a debate about words , about metaphors .
you know , there were n't tangerines in the garden of eden .
there was n't any cantaloupe .
we made it over the last 11,000 years .
you do n't want to do that ?
why do we do that ?
and you know what my response to all of that is ?
yes , you 're right . let 's fix it .
this has nothing to do with science .
you know science is n't a company .
it 's not a country .
disgraceful . disgraceful .
it 's just a bunch of calories . it sucks .
they would n't starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it would n't be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say about this is : why are we fighting it ?
because we do n't want to move genes around ?
this is about moving genes around . it 's not about chemicals .
because , you know something ?
absolutely . absolutely , i do .
it 's stuck in the present right now , but we have an amazing opportunity .
everybody talks about happiness these days .
he had had 20 minutes of glorious music .
now , the remembering self is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a basic response of our memories -- it starts immediately .
we do n't only tell stories when we set out to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , that is , what we get to keep from our experiences is a story .
and let me begin with one example .
this is an old study .
those are actual patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i wo n't go into detail . it 's no longer painful these days , but it was painful when this study was run in the 1990s .
they were asked to report on their pain every 60 seconds .
here are two patients , those are their recordings .
and you are asked , `` who of them suffered more ? ''
and it 's a very easy question .
clearly , patient b suffered more -- his colonoscopy was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had , patient b had , and more .
but now there is another question : `` how much did these patients think they suffered ? ''
and here is a surprise .
the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the colonoscopy than patient b .
the stories of the colonoscopies were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and neither of these stories is very inspiring or great -- but one of them is this distinct ...
but one of them is distinctly worse than the other .
and the one that is worse is the one where pain was at its peak at the very end ; it 's a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people after their colonoscopy , and much later , too , `` how bad was the whole thing , in total ? ''
and it was much worse for a than for b , in memory .
now this is a direct conflict between the experiencing self and the remembering self .
from the point of view of the experiencing self , clearly , b had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually ran clinical experiments , and it has been done , and it does work -- you could actually extend the colonoscopy of patient a by just keeping the tube in without jiggling it too much .
that will cause the patient to suffer , but just a little and much less than before .
and if you do that for a couple of minutes , you have made the experiencing self of patient a worse off , and you have the remembering self of patient a a lot better off , because now you have endowed patient a with a better story about his experience .
what defines a story ?
and that is true of the stories that memory delivers for us , and it 's also true of the stories that we make up .
what defines a story are changes , significant moments and endings .
endings are very , very important and , in this case , the ending dominated .
now , the experiencing self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of experience , one after the other .
and you can ask : what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really straightforward : they are lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our life -- and i calculated , you know , the psychological present is said to be about three seconds long ; that means that , you know , in a life there are about 600 million of them ; in a month , there are about 600,000 -- most of them do n't leave a trace .
most of them are completely ignored by the remembering self .
and yet , somehow you get the sense that they should count , that what happens during these moments of experience is our life .
it 's the finite resource that we 're spending while we 're on this earth .
and how to spend it would seem to be relevant , but that is not the story that the remembering self keeps for us .
so we have the remembering self and the experiencing self , and they 're really quite distinct .
the biggest difference between them is in the handling of time .
from the point of view of the experiencing self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that 's not the way it works at all for the remembering self .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is barely better than the one-week vacation because there are no new memories added .
you have not changed the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a remembering self from an experiencing self ; time has very little impact on the story .
now , the remembering self does more than remember and tell stories .
it is actually the one that makes decisions because , if you have a patient who has had , say , two colonoscopies with two different surgeons and is deciding which of them to choose , then the one that chooses is the one that has the memory that is less bad , and that 's the surgeon that will be chosen .
the experiencing self has no voice in this choice .
we actually do n't choose between experiences , we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we do n't think of our future normally as experiences .
we think of our future as anticipated memories .
and basically you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the remembering self , and you can think of the remembering self sort of dragging the experiencing self through experiences that the experiencing self does n't need .
i have that sense that when we go on vacations this is very frequently the case ; that is , we go on vacations , to a very large extent , in the service of our remembering self .
and this is a bit hard to justify i think .
i mean , how much do we consume our memories ?
that is one of the explanations that is given for the dominance of the remembering self .
and when i think about that , i think about a vacation we had in antarctica a few years ago , which was clearly the best vacation i 've ever had , and i think of it relatively often , relative to how much i think of other vacations .
and i probably have consumed my memories of that three-week trip , i would say , for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
now , that is three weeks , and that is at most an hour and a half .
there seems to be a discrepancy .
now , i may be a bit extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have for consuming memories , but even if you do more of this , there is a genuine question : why do we put so much weight on memory relative to the weight that we put on experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine that for your next vacation , you know that at the end of the vacation all your pictures will be destroyed , and you 'll get an amnesic drug so that you wo n't remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
and if you would choose a different vacation , there is a conflict between your two selves , and you need to think about how to adjudicate that conflict , and it 's actually not at all obvious , because if you think in terms of time , then you get one answer , and if you think in terms of memories , you might get another answer .
why do we pick the vacations we do is a problem that confronts us with a choice between the two selves .
now , the two selves bring up two notions of happiness .
there are really two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the experiencing self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the experiencing self 's life ?
and they 're all -- happiness for moments is a fairly complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , now we are capable of getting a pretty good idea of the happiness of the experiencing self over time .
if you ask for the happiness of the remembering self , it 's a completely different thing .
this is not about how happily a person lives .
it is about how satisfied or pleased the person is when that person thinks about her life .
very different notion .
anyone who does n't distinguish those notions is going to mess up the study of happiness , and i belong to a crowd of students of well-being , who 've been messing up the study of happiness for a long time in precisely this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the experiencing self and the satisfaction of the remembering self has been recognized in recent years , and there are now efforts to measure the two separately .
the gallup organization has a world poll where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think of their life and about their experiences , and there have been other efforts along those lines .
so in recent years , we have begun to learn about the happiness of the two selves .
and the main lesson i think that we have learned is they are really different .
you can know how satisfied somebody is with their life , and that really does n't teach you much about how happily they 're living their life , and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of the correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
what that means is if you met somebody , and you were told , `` oh his father is six feet tall , '' how much would you know about his height ?
well , you would know something about his height , but there 's a lot of uncertainty .
you have that much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody ranked their life eight on a scale of ten , you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their experiencing self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what controls satisfaction of the happiness self .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly being satisfied with people that we like , spending time with people that we like .
there are other pleasures , but this is dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two selves , you are going to end up doing very different things .
the bottom line of what i 've said here is that we really should not think of happiness as a substitute for well-being .
it is a completely different notion .
now , very quickly , another reason we can not think straight about happiness is that we do not attend to the same things when we think about life , and we actually live .
so , if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in california , you are not going to get to the correct answer .
when you ask that question , you think people must be happier in california if , say , you live in ohio .
and what happens is when you think about living in california , you are thinking of the contrast between california and other places , and that contrast , say , is in climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important to the experiencing self and it 's not even very important to the reflective self that decides how happy people are .
but now , because the reflective self is in charge , you may end up -- some people may end up moving to california .
and it 's sort of interesting to trace what is going to happen to people who move to california in the hope of getting happier .
well , their experiencing self is not going to get happier .
we know that .
but one thing will happen : they will think they are happier , because , when they think about it , they 'll be reminded of how horrible the weather was in ohio , and they will feel they made the right decision .
it is very difficult to think straight about well-being , and i hope i have given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you . i 've got a question for you .
thank you so much .
now , when we were on the phone a few weeks ago , you mentioned to me that there was quite an interesting result came out of that gallup survey .
is that something you can share since you do have a few moments left now ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup survey is a number , which we absolutely did not expect to find .
we found that with respect to the happiness of the experiencing self .
when we looked at how feelings , vary with income .
and it turns out that , below an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans -- and that 's a very large sample of americans , like 600,000 , so it 's a large representative sample -- below an income of 600,000 dollars a year ...
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they get progressively unhappier the poorer they get .
above that , we get an absolutely flat line .
i mean i 've rarely seen lines so flat .
clearly , what is happening is money does not buy you experiential happiness , but lack of money certainly buys you misery , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in terms of the other self , the remembering self , you get a different story .
the more money you earn , the more satisfied you are .
that does not hold for emotions .
but danny , the whole american endeavor is about life , liberty , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took seriously that finding , i mean , it seems to turn upside down everything we believe about , like for example , taxation policy and so forth .
is there any chance that politicians , that the country generally , would take a finding like that seriously and run public policy based on it ?
dk : you know i think that there is recognition of the role of happiness research in public policy .
the recognition is going to be slow in the united states , no question about that , but in the u.k. , it is happening , and in other countries it is happening .
people are recognizing that they ought to be thinking of happiness when they think of public policy .
it 's going to take a while , and people are going to debate whether they want to study experience happiness , or whether they want to study life evaluation , so we need to have that debate fairly soon .
how to enhance happiness goes very different ways depending on how you think , and whether you think of the remembering self or you think of the experiencing self .
this is going to influence policy , i think , in years to come .
in the united states , efforts are being made to measure the experience happiness of the population .
this is going to be , i think , within the next decade or two , part of national statistics .
well , it seems to me that this issue will -- or at least should be -- the most interesting policy discussion to track over the next few years .
thank you so much for inventing behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
