it lives in the deep ocean , about a mile and a half deep , almost at boiling-water temperatures .
it takes co2 to methane using molecular hydrogen as its energy source .
we 're looking to see if we can take captured co2 , which can easily be piped to sites , convert that co2 back into fuel to drive this process .
so , in a short period of time , we think that we might be able to increase what the basic question is of `` what is life ? ''
we truly , you know , have modest goals of replacing the whole petrol-chemical industry -- yeah . if you ca n't do that at ted , where can you ? -- become a major source of energy ...
but also , we 're now working on using these same tools to come up with instant sets of vaccines .
you 've seen this year with flu ; we 're always a year behind and a dollar short when it comes to the right vaccine .
i think that can be changed by building combinatorial vaccines in advance .
here 's what the future may begin to look like with changing , now , the evolutionary tree , speeding up evolution with synthetic bacteria , archaea and , eventually , eukaryotes .
we 're a ways away from improving people : our goal is just to make sure that we have a chance to survive long enough to maybe do that . thank you very much .
last year i showed these two slides so that demonstrate that the arctic ice cap , which for most of the last three million years has been the size of the lower 48 states , has shrunk by 40 percent .
but this understates the seriousness of this particular problem because it does n't show the thickness of the ice .
the arctic ice cap is , in a sense , the beating heart of the global climate system .
the next slide i show you will be a rapid fast-forward of what 's happened over the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked in red .
as you see , it expands to the dark blue -- that 's the annual ice in winter , and it contracts in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , you can see is almost like blood , spilling out of the body here .
in 25 years it 's gone from this , to this .
this is a problem because the warming heats up the frozen ground around the arctic ocean , where there is a massive amount of frozen carbon which , when it thaws , is turned into methane by microbes .
compared to the total amount of global warming pollution in the atmosphere , that amount could double if we cross this tipping point .
already in some shallow lakes in alaska , methane is actively bubbling up out of the water .
professor katey walter from the university of alaska went out with another team to another shallow lake last winter .
she 's okay . the question is whether we will be .
and one reason is , this enormous heat sink heats up greenland from the north .
this is an annual melting river .
but the volumes are much larger than ever .
this is the kangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how sea level rises from land-base ice melting this is where it reaches the sea .
these flows are increasing very rapidly .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica the largest mass of ice on the planet .
last month scientists reported the entire continent is now in negative ice balance .
and west antarctica cropped up on top some under-sea islands , is particularly rapid in its melting .
that 's equal to 20 feet of sea level , as is greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest mass of ice : at the top you see new lakes , which a few years ago were glaciers .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from that melting flow .
but when they go away , so does much of the drinking water .
in california there has been a 40 percent decline in the sierra snowpack .
this is hitting the reservoirs .
and the predictions , as you 've read , are serious .
this drying around the world has lead to a dramatic increase in fires .
and the disasters around the world have been increasing at an absolutely extraordinary and unprecedented rate .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern .
if you look at in the context of history you can see what this is doing .
in the last five years we 've added 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons every day to the oceans .
look carefully at the area of the eastern pacific , from the americas , extending westward , and on either side of the indian subcontinent , where there is a radical depletion of oxygen in the oceans .
the biggest single cause of global warming , along with deforestation , which is 20 percent of it , is the burning of fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the most serious problem .
and the proposal has been to build a lot more coal plants .
but we 're beginning to see a sea change .
here are the ones that have been cancelled in the last few years with some green alternatives proposed .
and the coal industries and the oil industries spent a quarter of a billion dollars in the last calendar year promoting clean coal , which is an oxymoron .
that image reminded me of something .
around christmas , in my home in tennessee , a billion gallons of coal sludge was spilled .
you probably saw it on the news .
this , all over the country , is the second largest waste stream in america .
this happened around christmas .
one of the coal industry 's ads around christmas was this one .
frosty the coal man is a jolly , happy soul .
he 's abundant here in america , and he helps our economy grow .
frosty the coal man is getting cleaner everyday .
he 's affordable and adorable , and workers keep their pay .
this is the source of much of the coal in west virginia .
the largest mountaintop miner is the head of massey coal .
let me be clear about it . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , they do n't know what they 're talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has launched two campaigns .
this is one of them , part of one of them .
at coalergy we view climate change as a very serious threat to our business .
that 's why we 've made it our primary goal to spend a large sum of money on an advertising effort to help bring out and complicate the truth about coal .
the fact is , coal is n't dirty .
we think it 's clean -- smells good , too .
so do n't worry about climate change .
leave that up to us .
clean coal -- you 've heard a lot about it .
so let 's take a tour of this state-of-the-art clean coal facility .
amazing ! the machinery is kind of loud .
but that 's the sound of clean coal technology .
and while burning coal is one of the leading causes of global warming , the remarkable clean coal technology you see here changes everything .
take a good long look : this is today 's clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative meshes with our economic challenge and our national security challenge .
america is in crisis -- the economy , national security , the climate crisis .
the thread that links them all : our addiction to carbon based fuels , like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there is a bold new solution to get us out of this mess .
repower america with 100 percent clean electricity within 10 years .
a plan to put america back to work , make us more secure , and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that 's big enough to solve our problems .
repower america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it 's about repowering america .
one of the fastest ways to cut our dependence on old dirty fuels that are killing our planet .
future 's over here . wind , sun , a new energy grid .
new investments to create high-paying jobs .
repower america . it 's time to get real .
there is an old african proverb that says , `` if you want to go quickly , go alone .
if you want to go far , go together . ''
we need to go far , quickly .
i 'd like to share with you a discovery that i made a few months ago while writing an article for italian wired .
i always keep my thesaurus handy whenever i 'm writing anything , but i 'd already finished editing the piece , and i realized that i had never once in my life looked up the word `` disabled '' to see what i 'd find .
let me read you the entry .
`` disabled , adjective : crippled , helpless , useless , wrecked , stalled , maimed , wounded , mangled , lame , mutilated , run-down , worn-out , weakened , impotent , castrated , paralyzed , handicapped , senile , decrepit , laid-up , done-up , done-for , done-in cracked-up , counted-out ; see also hurt , useless and weak .
antonyms , healthy , strong , capable . ''
i was reading this list out loud to a friend and at first was laughing , it was so ludicrous , but i 'd just gotten past `` mangled , '' and my voice broke , and i had to stop and collect myself from the emotional shock and impact that the assault from these words unleashed .
you know , of course , this is my raggedy old thesaurus so i 'm thinking this must be an ancient print date , right ?
but , in fact , the print date was the early 1980s , when i would have been starting primary school and forming an understanding of myself outside the family unit and as related to the other kids and the world around me .
and , needless to say , thank god i was n't using a thesaurus back then .
i mean , from this entry , it would seem that i was born into a world that perceived someone like me to have nothing positive whatsoever going for them , when in fact , today i 'm celebrated for the opportunities and adventures my life has procured .
so , i immediately went to look up the 2009 online edition , expecting to find a revision worth noting .
here 's the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it 's not much better .
i find the last two words under `` near antonyms , '' particularly unsettling : `` whole '' and `` wholesome . ''
so , it 's not just about the words .
it 's what we believe about people when we name them with these words .
it 's about the values behind the words , and how we construct those values .
our language affects our thinking and how we view the world and how we view other people .
in fact , many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , believed that to utter a curse verbally was so powerful , because to say the thing out loud brought it into existence .
so , what reality do we want to call into existence : a person who is limited , or a person who 's empowered ?
by casually doing something as simple as naming a person , a child , we might be putting lids and casting shadows on their power .
would n't we want to open doors for them instead ?
one such person who opened doors for me was my childhood doctor at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington , delaware .
his name was dr. pizzutillo , an italian american , whose name , apparently , was too difficult for most americans to pronounce , so he went by dr. p .
and dr. p always wore really colorful bow ties and had the very perfect disposition to work with children .
i loved almost everything about my time spent at this hospital , with the exception of my physical therapy sessions .
i had to do what seemed like innumerable repetitions of exercises with these thick , elastic bands -- different colors , you know -- to help build up my leg muscles , and i hated these bands more than anything -- i hated them , had names for them . i hated them .
and , you know , i was already bargaining , as a five year-old child , with dr. p to try to get out of doing these exercises , unsuccessfully , of course .
and , one day , he came in to my session -- exhaustive and unforgiving , these sessions -- and he said to me , `` wow . aimee , you are such a strong and powerful little girl , i think you 're going to break one of those bands .
when you do break it , i 'm going to give you a hundred bucks . ''
now , of course , this was a simple ploy on dr. p 's part to get me to do the exercises i did n't want to do before the prospect of being the richest five-year-old in the second floor ward , but what he effectively did for me was reshape an awful daily occurrence into a new and promising experience for me .
and i have to wonder today to what extent his vision and his declaration of me as a strong and powerful little girl shaped my own view of myself as an inherently strong , powerful and athletic person well into the future .
this is an example of how adults in positions of power can ignite the power of a child .
but , in the previous instances of those thesaurus entries , our language is n't allowing us to evolve into the reality that we would all want , the possibility of an individual to see themselves as capable .
our language has n't caught up with the changes in our society , many of which have been brought about by technology .
certainly , from a medical standpoint , my legs , laser surgery for vision impairment , titanium knees and hip replacements for aging bodies that are allowing people to more fully engage with their abilities , and move beyond the limits that nature has imposed on them -- not to mention social networking platforms allow people to self-identify , to claim their own descriptions of themselves , so they can go align with global groups of their own choosing .
so , perhaps technology is revealing more clearly to us now what has always been a truth : that everyone has something rare and powerful to offer our society , and that the human ability to adapt is our greatest asset .
the human ability to adapt , it 's an interesting thing , because people have continually wanted to talk to me about overcoming adversity , and i 'm going to make an admission : this phrase never sat right with me , and i always felt uneasy trying to answer people 's questions about it , and i think i 'm starting to figure out why .
implicit in this phrase of `` overcoming adversity '' is the idea that success , or happiness , is about emerging on the other side of a challenging experience unscathed or unmarked by the experience , as if my successes in life have come about from an ability to sidestep or circumnavigate the presumed pitfalls of a life with prosthetics , or what other people perceive as my disability .
but , in fact , we are changed . we are marked , of course , by a challenge , whether physically , emotionally or both .
and i 'm going to suggest that this is a good thing .
adversity is n't an obstacle that we need to get around in order to resume living our life .
it 's part of our life .
and i tend to think of it like my shadow .
sometimes i see a lot of it , sometimes there 's very little , but it 's always with me .
and , certainly , i 'm not trying to diminish the impact , the weight , of a person 's struggle .
there is adversity and challenge in life , and it 's all very real and relative to every single person , but the question is n't whether or not you 're going to meet adversity , but how you 're going to meet it .
so , our responsibility is not simply shielding those we care for from adversity , but preparing them to meet it well .
and we do a disservice to our kids when we make them feel that they 're not equipped to adapt .
there 's an important difference and distinction between the objective medical fact of my being an amputee and the subjective societal opinion of whether or not i 'm disabled .
and , truthfully , the only real and consistent disability i 've had to confront is the world ever thinking that i could be described by those definitions .
in our desire to protect those we care about by giving them the cold , hard truth about their medical prognosis , or , indeed , a prognosis on the expected quality of their life , we have to make sure that we do n't put the first brick in a wall that will actually disable someone .
perhaps the existing model of only looking at what is broken in you and how do we fix it , serves to be more disabling to the individual than the pathology itself .
by not treating the wholeness of a person , by not acknowledging their potency , we are creating another ill on top of whatever natural struggle they might have .
we are effectively grading someone 's worth to our community .
so we need to see through the pathology and into the range of human capability .
and , most importantly , there 's a partnership between those perceived deficiencies and our greatest creative ability .
so it 's not about devaluing , or negating , these more trying times as something we want to avoid or sweep under the rug , but instead to find those opportunities wrapped in the adversity .
so maybe the idea i want to put out there is not so much overcoming adversity as it is opening ourselves up to it , embracing it , grappling with it , to use a wrestling term , maybe even dancing with it .
this year we celebrate the 200th birthday of charles darwin , and it was 150 years ago , when writing about evolution , that darwin illustrated , i think , a truth about the human character .
conflict is the genesis of creation .
from darwin 's work , amongst others , we can recognize that the human ability to survive and flourish is driven by the struggle of the human spirit through conflict into transformation .
maybe that 's what adversity gives us : a sense of self , a sense of our own power .
we can re-imagine adversity as something more than just tough times .
maybe we can see it as change .
adversity is just change that we have n't adapted ourselves to yet .
i think the greatest adversity that we 've created for ourselves is this idea of normalcy .
now , who 's normal ?
there 's no normal .
i do n't think so .
i hear this guy , his voice behind me say , `` well , if it is n't aimee mullins . ''
and i turn around , and it 's this older man . i have no idea who he is .
he said , `` well , you would n't remember meeting me .
oh , that guy .
and so my mother 's prenatal physician had gone on vacation , so the man who delivered me was a complete stranger to my parents .
he said to me , `` i had to give this prognosis to your parents that you would never walk , and you would never have the kind of mobility that other kids have or any kind of life of independence , and you 've been making liar out of me ever since . ''
he understood that there 's a difference between the medical condition and what someone might do with it .
i aspired to that kind of normalcy back then .
