so paralysis is a consequence of having too many choices .
but here 's what you 're supposed to be thinking .
here 's this couple on the hamptons .
very expensive real estate .
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is away .
third : escalation of expectations .
so i went to replace my jeans after years and years of wearing these old ones , and i said , you know , `` i want a pair of jeans . here 's my size . ''
and the shopkeeper said , `` do you want slim fit , easy fit , relaxed fit ?
you want button fly or zipper fly ? you want stonewashed or acid-washed ?
do you want them distressed ?
you want boot cut , you want tapered , blah blah blah ... '' on and on he went .
my jaw dropped , and after i recovered , i said , `` i want the kind that used to be the only kind . ''
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying on all these damn jeans , and i walked out of the store -- truth ! -- with the best-fitting jeans i had ever had .
i did better . all this choice made it possible for me to do better .
but i felt worse .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try to explain this to myself .
the reason i felt worse is that , with all of these options available , my expectations about how good a pair of jeans should be went up .
i had very low -- i had no particular expectations when they only came in one flavor .
when they came in 100 flavors , damn it , one of them should 've been perfect .
and what i got was good , but it was n't perfect .
and so i compared what i got to what i expected , and what i got was disappointing in comparison to what i expected .
adding options to people 's lives ca n't help but increase the expectations people have about how good those options will be .
and what that 's going to produce is less satisfaction with results , even when they 're good results .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if they did , you would n't all know what this was about .
the truth is more like this .
the reason that everything was better back when everything was worse is that when everything was worse , it was actually possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
nowadays , the world we live in -- we affluent , industrialized citizens , with perfection the expectation -- the best you can ever hope for is that stuff is as good as you expect it to be .
you will never be pleasantly surprised because your expectations , my expectations , have gone through the roof .
the secret to happiness -- this is what you all came for -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
i want to say -- just a little autobiographical moment -- that i actually am married to a wife , and she 's really quite wonderful .
i could n't have done better . i did n't settle .
but settling is n't always such a bad thing .
finally , one consequence of buying a bad-fitting pair of jeans when there is only one kind to buy is that when you are dissatisfied , and you ask why , who 's responsible , the answer is clear : the world is responsible . what could you do ?
when there are hundreds of different styles of jeans available , and you buy one that is disappointing , and you ask why , who 's responsible ?
it is equally clear that the answer to the question is you .
you could have done better .
with a hundred different kinds of jeans on display , there is no excuse for failure .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about them ; they blame themselves .
clinical depression has exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
i believe a significant -- not the only , but a significant -- contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experiences that are disappointing because their standards are so high , and then when they have to explain these experiences to themselves , they think they 're at fault .
and so the net result is that we do better in general , objectively , and we feel worse .
so let me remind you .
this is the official dogma , the one that we all take to be true , and it 's all false . it is not true .
there 's no question that some choice is better than none , but it does n't follow from that that more choice is better than some choice .
there 's some magical amount . i do n't know what it is .
i 'm pretty confident that we have long since passed the point where options improve our welfare .
now , as a policy matter -- i 'm almost done -- as a policy matter , the thing to think about is this : what enables all of this choice in industrial societies is material affluence .
there are lots of places in the world , and we have heard about several of them , where their problem is not that they have too much choice .
their problem is that they have too little .
so the stuff i 'm talking about is the peculiar problem of modern , affluent , western societies .
and what is so frustrating and infuriating is this : steve levitt talked to you yesterday about how these expensive and difficult-to-install child seats do n't help . it 's a waste of money .
what i 'm telling you is that these expensive , complicated choices -- it 's not simply that they do n't help .
they actually hurt .
they actually make us worse off .
if some of what enables people in our societies to make all of the choices we make were shifted to societies in which people have too few options , not only would those people 's lives be improved , but ours would be improved also .
this is what economists call a `` pareto-improving move . ''
income redistribution will make everyone better off -- not just poor people -- because of how all this excess choice plagues us .
so to conclude . you 're supposed to read this cartoon , and , being a sophisticated person , say , `` ah ! what does this fish know ?
you know , nothing is possible in this fishbowl . ''
impoverished imagination , a myopic view of the world -- and that 's the way i read it at first .
the more i thought about it , however , the more i came to the view that this fish knows something .
because the truth of the matter is that if you shatter the fishbowl so that everything is possible , you do n't have freedom . you have paralysis .
if you shatter this fishbowl so that everything is possible , you decrease satisfaction .
you increase paralysis , and you decrease satisfaction .
everybody needs a fishbowl .
this one is almost certainly too limited -- perhaps even for the fish , certainly for us .
but the absence of some metaphorical fishbowl is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
i 'm going to talk today about energy and climate .
and that might seem a bit surprising because my full-time work at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds , about the things that we need to invent and deliver to help the poorest two billion live better lives .
but energy and climate are extremely important to these people -- in fact , more important than to anyone else on the planet .
the climate getting worse means that many years , their crops wo n't grow : there will be too much rain , not enough rain , things will change in ways that their fragile environment simply ca n't support .
and that leads to starvation , it leads to uncertainty , it leads to unrest .
so , the climate changes will be terrible for them .
also , the price of energy is very important to them .
in fact , if you could pick just one thing to lower the price of , to reduce poverty , by far you would pick energy .
now , the price of energy has come down over time .
really advanced civilization is based on advances in energy .
the coal revolution fueled the industrial revolution , and , even in the 1900s we 've seen a very rapid decline in the price of electricity , and that 's why we have refrigerators , air-conditioning , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
and so , we 're in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
but , as we make it cheaper -- and let 's go for making it twice as cheap -- we need to meet a new constraint , and that constraint has to do with co2 .
co2 is warming the planet , and the equation on co2 is actually a very straightforward one .
if you sum up the co2 that gets emitted , that leads to a temperature increase , and that temperature increase leads to some very negative effects : the effects on the weather ; perhaps worse , the indirect effects , in that the natural ecosystems ca n't adjust to these rapid changes , and so you get ecosystem collapses .
now , the exact amount of how you map from a certain increase of co2 to what temperature will be and where the positive feedbacks are , there 's some uncertainty there , but not very much .
and there 's certainly uncertainty about how bad those effects will be , but they will be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists on this several times : do we really have to get down to near zero ?
ca n't we just cut it in half or a quarter ?
and the answer is that until we get near to zero , the temperature will continue to rise .
and so that 's a big challenge .
it 's very different than saying `` we 're a twelve-foot-high truck trying to get under a ten-foot bridge , and we can just sort of squeeze under . ''
this is something that has to get to zero .
now , we put out a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
for each american , it 's about 20 tons ; for people in poor countries , it 's less than one ton .
it 's an average of about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and , somehow , we have to make changes that will bring that down to zero .
it 's been constantly going up .
it 's only various economic changes that have even flattened it at all , so we have to go from rapidly rising to falling , and falling all the way to zero .
probably , one of these numbers is going to have to get pretty near to zero .
now that 's back from high school algebra , but let 's take a look .
first , we 've got population .
the world today has 6.8 billion people .
that 's headed up to about nine billion .
now , if we do a really great job on new vaccines , health care , reproductive health services , we could lower that by , perhaps , 10 or 15 percent , but there we see an increase of about 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
this encompasses everything : the food we eat , clothing , tv , heating .
these are very good things : getting rid of poverty means providing these services to almost everyone on the planet .
and it 's a great thing for this number to go up .
in the rich world , perhaps the top one billion , we probably could cut back and use less , but every year , this number , on average , is going to go up , and so , over all , that will more than double the services delivered per person .
here we have a very basic service : do you have lighting in your house to be able to read your homework ?
and , in fact , these kids do n't , so they 're going out and reading their school work under the street lamps .
now , efficiency , e , the energy for each service , here finally we have some good news .
we have something that 's not going up .
through various inventions and new ways of doing lighting , through different types of cars , different ways of building buildings -- there are a lot of services where you can bring the energy for that service down quite substantially .
some individual services even bring it down by 90 percent .
there are other services like how we make fertilizer , or how we do air transport , where the rooms for improvement are far , far less .
and so , overall here , if we 're optimistic , we may get a reduction of a factor of three to even , perhaps , a factor of six .
but for these first three factors now , we 've gone from 26 billion to , at best , maybe 13 billion tons , and that just wo n't cut it .
so let 's look at this fourth factor -- this is going to be a key one -- and this is the amount of co2 put out per each unit of energy .
and so the question is : can you actually get that to zero ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every way we make electricity today , except for the emerging renewables and nuclear , puts out co2 .
and so , what we 're going to have to do at a global scale , is create a new system .
and so , we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term `` miracle , '' i do n't mean something that 's impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the personal computer is a miracle .
the internet and its services are a miracle .
so , the people here have participated in the creation of many miracles .
usually , we do n't have a deadline , where you have to get the miracle by a certain date .
usually , you just kind of stand by , and some come along , some do n't .
this is a case where we actually have to drive at full speed and get a miracle in a pretty tight timeline .
now , i thought , `` how could i really capture this ?
is there some kind of natural illustration , some demonstration that would grab people 's imagination here ? ''
i thought back to a year ago when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people enjoyed that .
it really got them involved in the idea of , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
so , with energy , all i could come up with is this .
i decided that releasing fireflies would be my contribution to the environment here this year .
so here we have some natural fireflies .
i 'm told they do n't bite ; in fact , they might not even leave that jar .
now , there 's all sorts of gimmicky solutions like that one , but they do n't really add up to much .
we need solutions -- either one or several -- that have unbelievable scale and unbelievable reliability , and , although there 's many directions people are seeking , i really only see five that can achieve the big numbers .
i 've left out tide , geothermal , fusion , biofuels .
those may make some contribution , and if they can do better than i expect , so much the better , but my key point here is that we 're going to have to work on each of these five , and we ca n't give up any of them because they look daunting , because they all have significant challenges .
let 's look first at the burning fossil fuels , either burning coal or burning natural gas .
what you need to do there , seems like it might be simple , but it 's not , and that 's to take all the co2 , after you 've burned it , going out the flue , pressurize it , create a liquid , put it somewhere , and hope it stays there .
now we have some pilot things that do this at the 60 to 80 percent level , but getting up to that full percentage , that will be very tricky , and agreeing on where these co2 quantities should be put will be hard , but the toughest one here is this long-term issue .
who 's going to be sure ?
who 's going to guarantee something that is literally billions of times larger than any type of waste you think of in terms of nuclear or other things ?
this is a lot of volume .
so that 's a tough one .
next would be nuclear .
it also has three big problems : cost , particularly in highly regulated countries , is high ; the issue of the safety , really feeling good about nothing could go wrong , that , even though you have these human operators , that the fuel does n't get used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
and , although it 's not very large , there are a lot of concerns about that .
people need to feel good about it .
so three very tough problems that might be solvable , and so , should be worked on .
the last three of the five , i 've grouped together .
these are what people often refer to as the renewable sources .
and they actually -- although it 's great they do n't require fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is that the density of energy gathered in these technologies is dramatically less than a power plant .
this is energy farming , so you 're talking about many square miles , thousands of time more area than you think of as a normal energy plant .
also , these are intermittent sources .
the sun does n't shine all day , it does n't shine every day , and , likewise , the wind does n't blow all the time .
and so , if you depend on these sources , you have to have some way of getting the energy during those time periods that it 's not available .
so , we 've got big cost challenges here , we have transmission challenges : for example , say this energy source is outside your country ; you not only need the technology , but you have to deal with the risk of the energy coming from elsewhere .
and , finally , this storage problem .
and , to dimensionalize this , i went through and looked at all the types of batteries that get made -- for cars , for computers , for phones , for flashlights , for everything -- and compared that to the amount of electrical energy the world uses , and what i found is that all the batteries we make now could store less than 10 minutes of all the energy .
and so , in fact , we need a big breakthrough here , something that 's going to be a factor of 100 better than the approaches we have now .
now , this shows up when you try to get the intermittent source to be above , say , 20 to 30 percent of what you 're using .
if you 're counting on it for 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , how we 're going to go forward on this -- what 's the right approach ?
is it a manhattan project ? what 's the thing that can get us there ?
well , we need lots of companies working on this , hundreds .
