there 's never been a time like this .
think about that , it 's an incredible fact .
and why is it true ?
it 's gone . it 's vanished .
we vanquished it . puff .
in the rich world , diseases that threatened millions of us just a generation ago no longer exist , hardly .
diphtheria , rubella , polio ...
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , those are triumphs of the scientific method .
so that 's the good news .
unfortunately , that 's all the good news because there are some other problems , and they 've been mentioned many times .
i really do believe that , and , no , it ai n't wishful thinking .
not even the truth will set them free .
and this took me awhile to figure out .
i did n't know what to do , so i just did what i do : i wrote a story and i moved on .
people were going crazy .
i mean , i 'm a journalist .
they were exactly like the people in this room .
and it just disturbed me so much .
but then i thought , you know , let 's be honest .
we talk about it in ironic terms with little quotes around it : `` progress . ''
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what those reasons are .
we 've lost faith in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there 's no reason we should n't have .
you can just say a few names and people will understand .
there are questions and problems with the people we used to believe were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , demand proof , demand evidence .
do n't take anything for granted .
but here 's the thing : when you get proof , you need to accept the proof , and we 're not that good at doing that .
and the reason that i can say that is because we 're now in an epidemic of fear like one i 've never seen and hope never to see again .
about 12 years ago , there was a story published , a horrible story , that linked the epidemic of autism to the measles , mumps and rubella vaccine shot .
very scary .
tons of studies were done to see if this was true .
tons of studies should have been done ; it 's a serious issue .
the data came back .
the data came back from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and it was all the same : no correlation , no connection , none at all .
it does n't matter . it does n't matter because we believe anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we think we see , what makes us feel real .
we do n't believe a bunch of documents from a government official giving us data , and i do understand that , i think we all do .
but you know what ?
the result of that has been disastrous .
disastrous because here 's a fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccine rate for measles is going down .
that is disgraceful , and we should be ashamed of ourselves .
it 's horrible .
what kind of a thing happened that we could do that ?
now , i understand it . i do understand it .
because , did anyone have measles here ?
has one person in this audience ever seen someone die of measles ?
does n't happen very much .
does n't happen in this country at all , but it happened 160,000 times in the world last year .
that 's a lot of death of measles -- 20 an hour .
but since it did n't happen here , we can put it out of our minds , and people like jenny mccarthy can go around preaching messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like `` oprah '' and `` larry king live . ''
and they can do it because they do n't link causation and correlation .
they do n't understand that these things seem the same , but they 're almost never the same .
and it 's something we need to learn , and we need to learn it really soon .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he took one of the worst scourges of mankind away from us .
no fear , no agony . polio -- puff , gone .
that guy in the middle , not so much .
his name is paul offit .
he just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a bunch of other people .
it 'll save the lives of 400 to 500,000 kids in the developing world every year .
pretty good , right ?
well , it 's good , except that paul goes around talking about vaccines and says how valuable they are and that people ought to just stop the whining .
and he actually says it that way .
so , paul 's a terrorist .
when paul speaks in a public hearing , he ca n't testify without armed guards .
he gets called at home because people like to tell him that they remember where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
i do n't need to say this , but vaccines are essential .
you take them away , disease comes back , horrible diseases . and that 's happening .
we have measles in this country now .
and it 's getting worse , and pretty soon kids are going to die of it again because it 's just a numbers game .
and they 're not just going to die of measles .
what about polio ? let 's have that . why not ?
a college classmate of mine wrote me a couple weeks ago and said she thought i was a little strident .
no one 's ever said that before .
she was n't going to vaccinate her kid against polio , no way .
fine .
why ? because we do n't have polio . and you know what ?
we did n't have polio in this country yesterday .
today , i do n't know , maybe a guy got on a plane in lagos this morning , and he 's flying to lax , right now he 's over ohio .
and he 's going to land in a couple of hours , he 's going to rent a car , and he 's going to come to long beach , and he 's going to attend one of these fabulous ted dinners tonight .
and he does n't know that he 's infected with a paralytic disease , and we do n't either because that 's the way the world works .
that 's the planet we live on . do n't pretend it is n't .
now , we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love to do it .
everyone take their vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidant to get you going .
i know you did because half of americans do every day .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative medicines , and it does n't matter how often we find out that they 're useless .
the data says it all the time .
they darken your urine . they almost never do more than that .
it 's okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine ?
i 'm totally with you .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand , we hate big pharma .
we hate big government . we do n't trust the man .
and we should n't : our health care system sucks .
it 's absolutely astonishingly cold and soul-bending to those of us who can even afford it .
so we run away from it , and where do we run ?
we leap into the arms of big placebo .
that 's fantastic . i love big placebo .
but , you know , it 's really a serious thing because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all sorts of little props here .
none of it ... ginkgo , fraud ; echinacea , fraud ; acai -- i do n't even know what that is but we 're spending billions of dollars on it -- it 's fraud .
and you know what ? when i say this stuff , people scream at me , and they say , `` what do you care ? let people do what they want to do .
it makes them feel good . ''
because i do n't care if it 's the secretary of hhs who 's saying , `` hmm , i 'm not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammograms , '' or some cancer quack who wants to treat his patient with coffee enemas .
when you start down the road where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you end up in a place you do n't want to be .
he killed 400,000 of his people by insisting that beetroot , garlic and lemon oil were much more effective than the antiretroviral drugs we know can slow the course of aids .
please , do n't tell me there are no consequences to these things .
now , the most mindless epidemic we 're in the middle of right now is this absurd battle between proponents of genetically engineered food and the organic elite .
it 's an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
it 's ideology , it 's not science .
every single thing we eat , every grain of rice , every sprig of parsley , every brussels sprout has been modified by man .
there were n't christmas trees . we made it all .
and some of it worked , and some of it did n't .
we got rid of the stuff that did n't .
now we can do it in a more precise way -- and there are risks , absolutely -- but we can put something like vitamin a into rice , and that stuff can help millions of people , millions of people , prolong their lives .
i have to say , i do n't understand it .
we object to genetically engineered food .
well , the things i constantly hear are : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we do n't want giant fields of the same thing , that 's wrong .
we do n't companies patenting life .
we do n't want companies owning seeds .
it 's true , we 've got a huge food problem , but this is n't science .
it 's law , it 's morality , it 's patent stuff .
it 's not even an idea ; it 's a process .
it 's a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it does n't , but the idea that we should not allow science to do its job because we 're afraid , is really very deadening , and it 's preventing millions of people from prospering .
you know , in the next 50 years we 're going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we do right now , 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
they need it , and we 're not giving it to them .
and why ? genetically engineered food .
we do n't want to encourage people to eat that rotten stuff , like cassava for instance .
cassava 's something that half a billion people eat .
it 's kind of like a potato .
it does n't have nutrients , it does n't have protein , and scientists are engineering all of that into it right now .
and then people would be able to eat it and they 'd be able to not go blind .
i mean , let 's ask ourselves : why are we fighting it ?
it 's not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our insistence on having bigger food , better food , singular food .
this is n't about rice krispies , this is about keeping people alive , and it 's about time we started to understand what that meant .
if we do n't , if we continue to act the way we 're acting , we 're guilty of something that i do n't think we want to be guilty of : high-tech colonialism .
there 's no other way to describe what 's going on here .
it 's selfish , it 's ugly , it 's beneath us , and we really have to stop it .
so after this amazingly fun conversation , you might want to say , `` so , you still want to get in this ridiculous time machine and go forward ? ''
we can set that time machine on anything we want .
we can move it where we want to move it , and we 're going to move it where we want to move it .
we have to have these conversations and we have to think , but when we get in the time machine and we go ahead , we 're going to be happy we do .
i know that we can , and as far as i 'm concerned , that 's something the world needs right now .
i had somebody count the number of books with `` happiness '' in the title published in the last five years and they gave up after about 40 , and there were many more .
there is a huge wave of interest in happiness , among researchers .
there is a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but in spite of all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that sort of make it almost impossible to think straight about happiness .
and my talk today will be mostly about these cognitive traps .
this applies to laypeople thinking about their own happiness , and it applies to scholars thinking about happiness , because it turns out we 're just as messed up as anybody else is .
the first of these traps is a reluctance to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word `` happiness '' is just not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there is one particular meaning to which we might restrict it , but by and large , this is something that we 'll have to give up and we 'll have to adopt the more complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion between experience and memory ; basically , it 's between being happy in your life , and being happy about your life or happy with your life .
and those are two very different concepts , and they 're both lumped in the notion of happiness .
and the third is the focusing illusion , and it 's the unfortunate fact that we ca n't think about any circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its importance .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there 's just no way of getting it right .
now , i 'd like to start with an example of somebody who had a question-and-answer session after one of my lectures reported a story , and that was a story -- he said he 'd been listening to a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music and at the very end of the recording , there was a dreadful screeching sound .
and then he added , really quite emotionally , it ruined the whole experience .
but it had n't .
what it had ruined were the memories of the experience .
he had had the experience .
they counted for nothing because he was left with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all that he had gotten to keep .
what this is telling us , really , is that we might be thinking of ourselves and of other people in terms of two selves .
there is an experiencing self , who lives in the present and knows the present , is capable of re-living the past , but basically it has only the present .
it 's the experiencing self that the doctor approaches -- you know , when the doctor asks , `` does it hurt now when i touch you here ? ''
and then there is a remembering self , and the remembering self is the one that keeps score , and maintains the story of our life , and it 's the one that the doctor approaches in asking the question , `` how have you been feeling lately ? ''
or `` how was your trip to albania ? '' or something like that .
those are two very different entities , the experiencing self and the remembering self , and getting confused between them is part of the mess about the notion of happiness .
