the eu has spent a considerable amount of time and energy on tearing down borders and creating a single market .
let us together ensure that the summer of 2000 is the last summer with chaos in the skies over europe .
mr president , madam vice-president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , there has hardly ever been such a topical report as this one .
just in time before the summer break , when everyone goes on holiday and more and more people also travel by plane , today parliament is considering questions of air traffic .
eurocontrol must satisfy all these safety requirements , but that means we also have to create the necessary framework conditions .
we must make it very clear that not all delays are due to the management of air traffic ; almost half of all delays are due to air companies , airports and sometimes weather conditions .
however , it is the case that 50 % , or perhaps a little more , of delays are due to problems in the management of air traffic .
in any event , we must make the military and civil use of airspace more flexible , improve the efficiency of management and provide air traffic controllers , who are currently working in very complicated circumstances , with an easier environment which will allow them to do their work more effectively .
the ' single european sky ' initiative in no way implies the removal of eurocontrol .
on the contrary , eurocontrol is absolutely essential ; it is an essential element which must be strengthened and supplemented since , within the european union , we can go much further than the scope of eurocontrol .
furthermore , ladies and gentlemen , we must think in terms of a strong european common regulator and we must forget - because , of course , it is not going to appear in the commission ' s communication or proposals - the controversy , which in my view is artificial , between privatisation and non-privatisation .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
it is out of date because the 1952 ilo convention has just been revised and there is an expectation that most countries in the world will substantially improve their maternity protection .
but not everything is out of date , because in terms of organisation of work , there have been shortcomings in transposing the directive and even greater shortcomings in implementing it .
by way of example , i must tell you that in some countries , not even a minimum period of recuperation is allowed for the mother , which the experts say should be around 45 days for a normal birth for a woman working in a normal job .
nevertheless , there are countries that are not complying with these rules at all , on the pretext that they are guaranteeing women a choice .
we think that women must be guaranteed the option of enjoying an appropriate period of maternity leave , which they can share with the father , but that the leave should be assessed and guaranteed according to the risk to her own health .
furthermore , this directive does not provide for a link between its own risk assessment provisions and other directives , particularly the framework directive on risk assessment and information for workers .
the commission ' s report on the 1992 directive is only concerned with the technical transposition of the directive and does not look at the situation at the workplace , which has to some extent changed , or at the changed role of women in society .
the commission must submit a proposal for revision of the directive that takes account of all these changes , and it must do so as quickly as possible , this very year .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , today we are debating the implementation of council directive 92 / 85 / eec of 19 october 1992 , which is one of the most important directives in the field of the technical and health protection of workers .
really it is very sad for a society to find we have to pay much greater attention to this area in particular .
with a view to eastward enlargement and protection in those countries , let me also point out that the single market must not lead to discrimination against pregnant women and new mothers .
madam president , commissioner , i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her thorough , responsible and unreserved report .
the 1992 directive , whose implementation in the member states we are assessing today , is intended precisely to introduce minimum measures to encourage the improvement of the health and safety of pregnant women and women who have recently given birth and are breastfeeding .
the commission 's evaluation report shows that the directive has proved its utility in that it has been of some benefit in a number of member states in certain areas of the issue , such as leave on grounds of health and safety , etc .
the delay in the production of an evaluation report - and i would remind you that , precisely because of the low minimum standards set , italy was only persuaded to approve the directive on the condition that its implementation would be monitored very soon afterwards - should have led the commission to put forward a proposal to revise the directive , particularly in relation to certain aspects referred to by the rapporteur : the length of maternity leave , the increase in the duration of maternity leave where risks are involved , a more precise definition of the concept of an adequate allowance , the prohibition of dismissal of women during pregnancy or maternity leave with effective penalties , the prohibition of any form of discrimination with regard to women 's careers or the improvement of working conditions , the implementation of all the measures necessary to safeguard the health and safety of woman and unborn child , without prejudice to the woman 's right to work or her career and encouraging breastfeeding through diverse measures .
we have a directive from 1992 which establishes minimum rights for maternity leave and women ' s entitlements to financial compensation when they are absent from the labour market due to childbirth .
the existing rules make for great flexibility , and most countries guarantee women better conditions than the common regulations require .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the european commission is required to submit a directive proposal on measures for workers during pregnancy , birth and breastfeeding by the end of 2000 .
we are asking for the rights of pregnant and breastfeeding women to be extended .
mr president , at a time when europe , with the beijing + 5 conference in new york , is emphasising its pioneering role in the implementation of the principle of equality between men and women , it seems equally important to guarantee their freedom .
this freedom is achieved through a right to specific protection for women , a right that is always related to their bodies , in particular to maternity and , more specifically , pregnancy .
we do not view pregnancy as a social resource and there is one other point on which we would like to see a separate vote in order to improve the report .
lastly , i would urge all christian-democrat members to endorse this report by my socialist colleague .
mr president , i wish at this point to express my disappointment at the commission ' s failure to adopt any position on the revision , assessment and notification of directive 92 / 85 on maternity protection as yet .
the european community must strive to gain the support of applicant countries to ensure that awareness is raised as rapidly as possible , so that the measures recommended in this report can be adopted , since there may be greater resistance in those countries , which could be difficult to overcome .
lastly , i wish to sound a warning about point 9 of this report , because measures for protecting new mothers , such as very long maternity leave , may have unwanted effects , as it may become disadvantageous for employers to employ women , and they may consequently prefer to take on men .
according to the commission ' s assessment , the situation regarding the health and safety of pregnant women looks fine , but that is certainly only on paper , for is that also the way it looks in reality ?
the commission must go back to the drawing board , set to work again and table the necessary proposals .
the damiao report contains many good proposals , but we in the swedish liberal party still have fundamental objections to the report .
every member state should have full responsibility and the right to make its own decisions regarding its social security systems .
i know several women who have gone back to work earlier - there must be freedom of choice !
as a matter of fact , in the discussions held in the parliamentary committees , we tabled various amendments designed to guarantee the statutory right to take breaks from work for breastfeeding , to ensure non-discrimination in the workplace against pregnant women and women who have just given birth or who are breastfeeding , particularly in terms of salary , and to guarantee career progression and employment , with particular emphasis on the situation of working women who have temporary or atypical contracts .
i hope that parliament will adopt this amendment .
mr president , madam vice-president of the commission , the incorporation of women into the labour market means that at some time their working life will coincide with a pregnancy , which sometimes means that they are obliged to take additional leave so as not to endanger their own health or the health of the unborn child .
pregnancy is a natural state for women which society must respect , defend and protect .
society must care for working women in particular by ensuring that they remain in their jobs .
the protection of maternity and breast-feeding cannot be considered as a form of unequal treatment between men and women , since maternity is exclusive to women and it is women who must be protected , independently of the fact that some parental leave can be granted to men .
the directive must include a minimum leave of 20 weeks , with an obligatory period of at least eight weeks after giving birth .
in no circumstances must pregnancy be a cause for discrimination against women .
it must provide for new working situations and also the new family situation of single parent families .
the pregnant worker must be provided with adequate protection , which is designed for their specific circumstances , but this should not mean discrimination or a reduction in their work opportunities , but quite the opposite .
mr president , in today ' s europe there is no room for a divorce between women and employment , and much less a divorce between women and maternity .
it seems to me that , in this proposal for a revision of the directive that we are asking the commission to present quickly , it is essential to preserve the reality of three fundamental principles for women and their well-being : the prohibition of dismissal for pregnant women or women on maternity leave , the right to a mandatory minimum leave and allowance during this leave to be taken into account for the purposes of acquiring pension entitlements .
furthermore , it seems to me that this new directive should comprise substantial improvements , in particular all women must be offered the opportunity to take 20 weeks ' maternity leave , without necessarily being obliged to take the entire period , but the employer shall be obliged to offer it , and a minimum of 8 weeks after the birth , in order to foster development of the bond between mother and child .
finally , it is recommended that this text should correlate and reinforce the formal prohibition of dismissal during pregnancy and maternity leave .
this is why it is necessary to have a sufficiently long period of rest from work before giving birth and even longer afterwards , when there is a child to breastfeed , look after and bring up .
the community legislation and the jurisprudence of the european court of justice still do not offer a sufficient framework although they are undoubtedly key elements to making further progress in this aspect which is essential to safeguarding the rights of pregnant workers .
directive 92 / 85 was adopted before the treaty of amsterdam .
that is what we propose and to this end we are going to prepare a supplementary report on the implementation of this directive , which we will present in 2002 .
as the honourable members know well , the commission last week approved its new social agenda for 2000-2005 and it is within this framework that we hope to offer an adequate solution , not only to this specific problem , but also to a whole series of other issues .
the report on the feira summit was issued on tuesday morning , the report on tuesday morning ' s discharge sitting was issued at 9.12 p.m .
the report on zimbabwe , tuesday afternoon , was issued at 10.55 p.m .
the report on the european central bank on wednesday morning was issued at 8.00 p.m .
i would ask you , mr president , to revert back to the old system and to ensure that the press releases , the daily press releases , not only appear on time , but also afford a general overview - in a decentralised manner - for each language .
mr staes , your comments will , of course , be passed on to our staff so that we can work as efficiently as possible .
i would like to know exactly from the commission - because this compromise has been concluded with the commission - whether a ) the commission is prepared to implement amendment no 51 which has been added to the compromise and b ) whether the commission is prepared , in consultation with the council , to bring up for discussion the special position of belgian , dutch and northern french flax growers .
we referred the report back on 16 may and in the meantime it has been improved .
mr president , commissioners , ladies and gentlemen , i really want to give warm thanks , not just to the commission but also to all those involved , to all my colleagues on the committee on agriculture , for enabling us jointly to achieve this compromise !
if the socialist group does not support compromise amendment no 10 - and that is up to the group - then let me tell you that this will be a very grave decision it is taking here today . ( applause from the ppe-de group ) mr poettering , as you are aware , explanations of vote are made after the vote .
yes , mr president , i note that the law is not equal for all , because i wanted to speak along the same lines , in the previous sitting , on the resolution on feira , and i was not given the authorisation to do so , and i did it at the right time in the end .
on behalf of my group , i would like to point out that it is absolutely unacceptable , firstly , that a non-existent agreement be cited , and secondly that my group be threatened .
furthermore , and i will end , mr president , by saying that there is no mention by name of any group in the kuhne report .
secondly , i myself proposed in my original report , which was adopted in committee in march and voted on here in april , to include a problem relating to my group in that report .
at that time , my group and the greens voted in committee to resolve that problem .
let me now make a very fundamental comment as rapporteur for a discharge procedure .
no rapporteur for a discharge procedure , in which the groups are involved , can have this discharge taken from him by an agreement between group chairmen , whether or not such an agreement exists .
amendments nos 5 and 6 are not here .
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 and 10 ( first part ) , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 ( the first , third and fourth part of 15 ) , 16 , 17 and 18 .
explanations of vote mr president , in view of the vote on the papayannakis report i should like to ask the commission to convene a conciliation committee next week so that we sort this out before the 1 september deadline .
we voted against extra money for military advisers because we believe a peace policy needs peace experts and non-violent conflict resolution .
it will be hard to explain to the citizens of europe why eur 14 million of taxes were squandered on the flechard case and why parliament is letting itself be fobbed off with empty promises .
on behalf of my group , i therefore want to state that we voted against the discharge to the commission for that reason . - ( da ) on 6 july 2000 , members of the union for a europe of nations group voted against giving discharge to the commission in respect of implementation of the general budget of the european union for 1998 .
unacceptable pressure has been placed upon a number of rapporteurs , and the shady operators who have an interest in preventing the serious examples of fraud and deception in the commission ' s administration from coming to light have not held back from making physical threats .
this firm was suspected of fraud as early as 1992 .
but the commissioner for budgets does not have the right to refuse to tell us how many millions the commission has paid to this firm over the past years .
faced with the need to finally make a decision on whether or not to grant discharge , we eventually gave the current european commission the benefit of the doubt for 1998 .
mr president , i would like to ask for the vote on the report on the protection of forests to be postponed until the next sitting , because today , for unavoidable reasons , i must leave this parliament at 5 p.m .
the votes on certain resolutions , such as the european council of feira , zimbabwe and the trafficking of human beings took a relatively short time .
we will take note of your comment and pass it on to the conference of presidents , for , in the order of voting , according to the procedure we have been following , out of all the recommendations for second reading - which engage our capacity as a legislative house - priority is given to the drafts which engage our power of colegislation .
mr arvidsson - all this relates to what i know about - will , i hope , also agree .
ruhle report ( a5-0167 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted against the ruhle report .
apart from this , i would like to stress that , in addition to the other aspects which are inadequate as the rapporteur himself states in his report - which begs the question of why he does not conclude the report with a recommendation to vote against it - it would be appropriate to give at least part of these funds to voluntary organisations , which include many pensioners and elderly people who are willing to go out into the world and assist developing countries . . ( fr ) the european parliament , during its sitting of 13 april 2000 , quite rightly decided to delay the decision giving discharge to the european commission on the implementation of the budget for the year 1998 .
this decision was legitimate , insofar as the citizens of our nations have the right to be told how the money of the european union , their money , is being spent .
there is no question , however , of accepting that , on the pretext of better monitoring , in order to achieve a more honest and rational use of the european funds - and i am thinking of african , caribbean and pacific countries in particular , that our action should be a pretext for also organising the unfounded trial of certain countries of the european union - incidentally one of the main net contributors ( i am talking about france ) - by means of a witch hunt which , it is said , targets certain high-ranking civil servants of that nationality .
kuhne report ( a5-0189 / 2000 ) - ( de ) i voted against giving a discharge to the secretary-general because he gave misleading information to the political decision-making bodies about the purchase of the asp building in brussels .
today , on the basis of a unanimous agreement within the council , we finally have the opportunity to show a little determination .
indeed , the common position submitted to us includes a large number of the amendments adopted by this house at first reading .
certain fellow members have explained , in good faith , that this statement does nothing to contribute to tracing beef .
on the contrary , this labelling is just as important as establishing health guarantees .
these two types of information are not in competition ; they are complementary and contribute , each at their own level , to restoring the confidence of european consumers .
the confidence of our consumers cannot be decreed , it must be won .
what we are discussing here today is the revision of the original 1993 regulation which put in place the community eco-management and audit scheme .
under the new regulation which we are discussing here today easier access will be made for small- and medium-sized enterprises to apply for accreditation under the emas scheme .
i fully support this programme and commend this report .
recommendation for second reading : breyer ( a5-0166 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the recommendation , which sets limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in the ambient air .
this draft recommendation establishes minimum criteria to be applied in the organising , carrying out , following up and publicising of the results of environmental inspections .
two types of inspections are foreseen , in particular , routine inspections carried out as part of a planned inspection programme and non-routine inspections as a follow-up to complaints in connection with the issue and renewal or modification of various licences .
under this draft recommendation , each plan should define the geographical area which it covers , cover a defined period of time , include specific provisions for its revision , identify the specific sites or types of installations covered , prescribe the programmes for routine environmental inspections , provide for and outline the procedures for non-routine environmental inspections , provide for coordination between the different inspecting authorities .
i would like to commend the rapporteur , caroline jackson , for her report .
the rapporteur believes that only a directive can force the member states to introduce these inspection systems .
the european union also has competence in environmental matters under article 130 of the maastricht treaty .
santa maria da feira european council of 19 and 20 june 2000 mr president , the feira council of 19 and 20 june 2000 showed a certain hypocrisy regarding a goodly number of subjects , and i will cite four of these .
this matter is particularly serious as it clearly shows that the powers of coercion given to the european union can easily be used against national democratic expression .
on the draft charter of fundamental rights , the heads of state and government have mostly pretended not to know yet whether they wanted to include social rights and make the document binding in nature .
earlier today , at the constitutional affairs committee , i asked joschka fischer a question on this subject , but he wriggled out of replying .
fourthly , the lisbon summit , midway through the portuguese presidency , gave another sign in favour of abandoning the european welfare model and changing to the american model . - ( da ) the danish social democrats in the european parliament have voted today in favour of the resolution concerning the conclusions from the european council ' s summit in feira on 19-20 june 2000 .
i know that opinion on the tax compromise that we just managed to negotiate in feira is divided .
not only is closer cooperation itself vigorously denounced , and rightly so , by the small- and medium-sized member states , as damaging to their integrity , whereas sovereignty is a principle that guarantees the equality and respect of each .
in order to put an end to a situation where poverty forces thousands of human beings to leave for lands where they hope to have a slightly better life , we must put an end to a social system which , in order to concentrate extraordinary riches in the hands of the few , enforces poverty on the majority of the planet .
it is disgusting that , even in areas where current national and european institutions could actually do something , they do nothing .
the dover tragedy happened between two european countries .
mr president , i shall explain my vote in writing .
previously , when members were present for the vote and an explanation of vote was made in writing , it was possible to leave , as the president used to state that he had received such and such a written explanation of vote on such and such a report .
now , we have to wait .
if all the members here had given their explanations of vote in writing you would have had your chance rather earlier .
however , your fellow members have the right to give explanations of vote on all the reports that we put to the vote .
mr president , i would like to comment on points 2 and 3 , in which it is claimed that the intergovernmental conference is the key issue in the run-up to enlargement of the eu .
i would also like to comment on point 10 , the contents of which i think involve an unfortunate development in the direction of militarisation of the european union .
i am saying this also as a representative of a country that is non-aligned .
first of all , mr maaten , the article you are talking about only refers to one group or 32 members .
in both fiji and the solomon islands democratic government and law and order have been undermined .
the beleaguered inhabitants of fiji are looking to the european union , which they see as the beacon of democracy and racial equality , to come to their aid .
we also warn the solomon islands that a suspension of aid may be needed there to restore democracy , peace and stability .
madam president , i want to concentrate on the solomon islands , but first just a word on fiji .
this situation is unsustainable .
that aid is 25 % of their gdp .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , it is true that the pacific always evokes images of paradise : beaches , coconut palms , sun .
moreover , in spite of these differences , all these people are at home in fiji .
this practice is only possible because the population is poor and suffers from a lack of knowledge of other groups .
in the solomon islands , a sham parliamentary vote brought a new prime minister to power , elected by the power of the gun .
these two examples support our vision of the conflict .
from this point of view , if we want to be really effective , we must prevent further conflicts and to do so , we must genuinely aid the development of education , the local economy and local democracy .
the commission is currently preparing a proposal to the council on the application of article 366a of the lome convention because , in its the view , the fundamental principles of the convention - democracy , the rule of law and respect for human rights - are no longer guaranteed in fiji .
tibet is occupied , tibet was invaded by chinese troops in 1949 and since then has been occupied and colonised by the chinese .
we must oblige them and , through political action by parliament , assert our determination to see this matter , which has lasted 50 years , finally resolved .
china is a large country which has a right to democracy .
first of all , why is it that there is still no real dialogue at official level between the chinese government and the tibetan government in exile ?
secondly , how can a renowned institution such as the world bank be on the brink of financing a chinese programme which is tantamount to a common or garden colonisation of tibet ?
mr president , commissioner verheugen , ladies and gentlemen , tomorrow the world bank will be taking a decision with very serious implications for tibet .
a fortnight ago , the members of our intergroup on tibet and many other meps urged the president of the world bank in washington not to go against the bank ' s own principles for the protection of endangered peoples .
but that also implies an obligation to act more responsibly than before and , for instance , to apply the concept of " one china - many systems " .
on behalf of the epp group and the intergroup on tibet , i call on all the members of the european parliament to support our resolution .
i hope you will help us bring about a u-turn , as requested by my fellow meps in the amendment ; a u-turn which prescribes that , if there is no change in three years ' time , we will eventually decide to recognise tibet ' s provisional government rather than continue to tread water .
i would like to address the commissioner and say that i hope that the commission has very good relations with the representatives of the world bank .
we have therefore only got an extremely short time in which to influence the world bank , to which this resolution is , of course , primarily directed .
the council is , of course , not represented here to any great extent .
madam president , the commission , like parliament , is deeply concerned about the human rights situation in tibet .
we are particularly concerned about respect on the part of the chinese authorities for the cultural , linguistic and religious identity of the autonomous region of tibet .
in particular , the european union has called on china to resume the dialogue with the dalai lama as soon as possible .
in our view , a direct dialogue between the dalai lama and the chinese authorities is the only realistic way of achieving a lasting and peaceful solution to the issue of tibet .
with regard to cooperation , the european union takes the view that it is in the interest of the tibetan people that we support aid projects in tibet , provided the group of ethnic tibetans benefits directly from them and is given priority in the management of the projects .
if any influence at all can still be brought to bear , it would be up to the member states to do so .
firstly , i hope , in particular , that the council and the commission will be active when it comes to also taking up this issue in the security council when the action plan concerning children in armed conflicts will be debated at the end of this month .
i would also like the eu jointly to take up the issue in the security council at the end of this month during the follow-up to the general debate on children in armed conflicts .
madam president , the situation in northern uganda and southern sudan is the setting for the drama of the child-soldiers .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , war is always cruel , and civil war even more so .
this is why we must increase aid and support for unicef , which has set up an action programme enabling children to return to a normal life .
sudan must stop supporting the lra .
and parliament must intervene to urge the ugandan government to find a peaceful solution to this conflict in the north of uganda , which , let me remind you , has been the cause of 100 000 deaths in 15 years .
some weeks ago , a documentary from southern sudan was shown on swedish television .
we must , as is stated in point 8 of the resolution , strongly urge these companies to cease their activities in sudan until a peaceful solution to the conflict has been found .
i would ask commissioner verheugen specifically whether he is absolutely clear about the point mentioned in the resolution , that of bringing the investments in both oil and oil pipelines in sudan to a halt for the time being .
we do a great deal financially in this respect in different countries .
however many finely-worded resolutions we have , as long as we in the community fail to get to grips with the issues relating to children in our own community , we do not have a strong voice to raise our concerns about this .
many of our policies affect children 's rights and interests but this week commissioner prodi said he did not feel it was necessary to have a dedicated unit looking at children 's rights within the community .
situation in the moluccas madam president , the moluccas require our attention once again .
the brave attitude of president wahid should not go unmentioned .
finally , i would like to ask your attention for the victims of these conflicts , namely the ordinary citizens .
the lack of political and economic interests in that region should not determine the level of aid .
it is therefore vital that the international community offer immediate financial and moral support in order to solve the problems in indonesia .
after a few months of peace and quiet in that area , violence has flared up again over the past few weeks , and once again , dozens of people have been killed and once again , thousand of people have fled .
it seems that the jihad militiamen are being financed and armed by these groups , and sometimes backed by regional military forces , which are , in fact , supposed to protect the population .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , it is becoming increasingly clear that the violence on the moluccas is not a chaotic , spontaneous fight between the local population , between local muslims and christians .
in other words , the security apparatus which should guarantee stability , is divided over two camps .
however , we must also let him know that we support him in his fight against those sections of the army which are of course trying to undermine democratic reform , in his battle against people like amien rais , the chairman of the people ' s consultative assembly who , for example , referred to young people devoted to the laskar jihad as the heart of the nation .
i think that certain forces are at work behind these actions , and there is a significant similarity between a certain type of behaviour that we are now seeing in the moluccas and the events we recently witnessed in east timor .
madam president , we can all put our signatures to what is written in the resolution .
we must also question the actions of the european union and its ability to pursue this initiative in favour of the international moratorium alongside the united nations and the international community .
to avoid repeating last year ' s failure at the united nations , we must urgently coordinate the actions of the european union .
to this end , i have presented an amendment asking that this policy within the united nations in favour of the establishment of a universal moratorium be coordinated by the high representative for common foreign and security policy .
i therefore urge my fellow members to support these amendments .
mr president , this house is appealing to the governor of virginia to spare the life of a man , derek rocco barnabei , sentenced to death , who is in all probability innocent .
as we debate our resolution , in a death cell in the same state , they are sterilising the needles which will be used to administer the lethal injection which , in a few hours ' time , will kill michael clagget , probably guilty of multiple murders committed many years ago .
we have adopted countless resolutions during these last two parliamentary terms in a vain attempt to put an end to the death penalty in the united states and elsewhere .
what is certain is that many other executions will be performed at an increasingly high rate before august in virginia and other states , in particular texas , whose governor - who will almost certainly be the next president of the united states of america - holds the world record of having put 132 human beings to death in the last five years .
bush boasts of this record , but i do know - because he told me in a letter he sent me dated 22 march - that he is confident that he will be able to fulfil the highest obligations of a fair and errorless justice .
the resolution before parliament notes the fresh debate which is currently in progress in the united states , not on the abolition of the death penalty at all but on a moratorium intended to ensure a more reliable but no less merciless system .
it is therefore a horrible irony that the united states is one of the few countries in the developed world which still retains and practises the use of the death penalty .
we face today a particular case , that of derek rockwell barnabei : each human being is an individual in her or his own right and must be stood up for as such .
mr president , the case of derek rocco barnabei makes our resolution all the more urgent .
serious riots broke out , especially before and after the germany-england match .
germany set a good example in this respect .
mr president , this debate is not entitled hooligans but euro 2000 , and this is great .
i also want to make sure that we actually condemn hooligans in a very strong way in this house ; all hooligans whatever country they come from and whatever their background .
in denmark when galatasaray played arsenal , a number of arsenal fans were arrested yet not charged with hooliganism .
so all these factors actually led to a number of people thinking : " well this euro 2000 championship is a soft touch .
we must therefore be concerned when the game is unduly weighed down by either economic interests or excessively emotive behaviour , neither of which must be encouraged in any way by the political world .
the item on the agenda as approved by the house is ' hooligans ' .
notably , the rotterdam incident does not alter our view of the human rights record or the quality of democracy in holland , which i consider to be among the most liberal countries in the world , although it was treated as serious , both in terms of the shameful treatment of the disabled people and because of the violence against the journalists who were merely doing their duty .
i would strongly urge the italian delegates , and also the italian press , but mainly the italian meps to refrain from drawing any comparison with the heysel tragedy .
the measures taken by the belgian authorities served to limit the clearly racist , xenophobic and homophobic violence of the hooligans .
i therefore believe that parliament can provide a real impetus for the member states and the uefa to implement such measures immediately , as the red card , mr president , must admittedly be applied on the pitch , but must also be applied with regard to hooligans , both in and outside the stadium .
all member states should , in consultation with each other , take appropriate measures .
not only was euro 2000 a superb festival of football , it was also a festival of solidarity among the citizens of the european union , whom it brought closer together .
mr president , on monday , the liberal group voted against including this item on the agenda and if i now consider the resolution , i believe we were right to do so .
extending congratulations in a resolution is very civilised , of course , but hardly the task of this parliament .
the dutch public prosecutor is involved in this matter and so it is completely premature on the part of this parliament to pass a verdict on the incident at this stage .
iraq mr president , the united nations has been emasculated by two members of the security council on the issue of sanctions on iraq .
kofi annan is a good and honourable man .
the alleged purpose of the sanctions is to get rid of saddam hussein .
i am a friend of islam and i think we should stop , in this european union and the european parliament , demonising the arabs and demonising islam .
mr president , we had originally submitted a text on the same subject and with the same purport , but this text gives a far more balanced view than the text of the so-called joint resolution .
mr president , iraq was at war with iran from 1980 to 1989 .
iraq invaded kuwait on 2 august 1990 .
in 1994 , iraq recognised the territorial integrity of kuwait .
the un representative reported to the un in 1997 that unscom 's work had covered virtually everything about iraq .
in 1998 the international atomic energy agency declared that iraq no longer had a nuclear capacity .
the oil for food programme started in 1996 has been excessively bureaucratic and incompetent , resulting in long delays in procuring essential medicines and food supplies .
if the sanctions were intended to dislodge saddam hussein , this has not still been achieved after ten years .
however , ten years of sanctions have caused enormous suffering and hardship for the 22 million people of iraq .
the intellectual embargo has deprived doctors , teachers and other professionals of the advances in science and technology .
i hope that this house will vote in favour of this resolution .
mr president , on 15 april this year , following a full debate with the council and the commission , we adopted a resolution that was endorsed by an overwhelming majority of this house .
secondly , we propose that our parliament should take the initiative in sending a fact-finding mission on the ground .
in particular we must ask iraq to cooperate with the international committee of the red cross on tracing the 604 kuwaiti citizens who disappeared as a result of the illegal iraqi occupation of kuwait .
if there is to be any eu visit to iraq it must include a visit to those families in kuwait who are still waiting to know ten years later what happened to their loved ones .
what a contrast and what hypocrisy between so-called humanitarianism and this holocaust that we are collectively carrying out due to simple cowardice in the face of american power , that great empire that this house in particular and europe in general are incapable of opposing on any subject , as yesterday ' s vote on echelon showed once again .
it is precisely this obsession of saddam hussein ' s which reveals the very risky naivety of paragraph 3 of the joint resolution , because the lifting of the no-fly zone in the north of iraq - remember this is the international guarantee for the kurds against their arch enemy saddam - will probably drive millions of kurds to take flight once again .
on the question of human rights let me therefore sum up by saying that the commission ' s foreign policy remains , as ever , directed at helping to prevent conflicts , prevent infringements of human rights and promote democracy and human rights .
wherever we encounter violent conflicts and infringements of human rights , we resolutely apply the means at our disposal , be it through dialogue , be it through diplomatic measures or be it in the form of economic cooperation and aid to these countries , in order to play a positive part in resolving the conflicts and promoting democracy and human rights .
but everyone in this house also knows that the oil for food programme has certain weaknesses , which once again the iraqi regime has to answer for , and that is also why we are still using echo as an instrument in iraq .
i would like to say a little more on an issue that is being discussed here for the first time today , namely hooligans and football .
one important instrument is the handbook the council adopted in june 1999 on cooperation between police authorities and measures to prevent violence at international football matches .
the handbook sets out practical rules of conduct for the police , which were applied for the first time at the euro 2000 championship in the netherlands and belgium .
the evaluation of the euro 2000 championship will provide a great deal of useful information on improving the measures to combat hooliganism .
its findings on the police action during the euro 2000 championship will be useful for similar future events .
the commission will await the findings of this project before putting forward practical proposals to improve the existing measures .
once the euro 2000 championship has been evaluated , the commission and these two countries will establish more concrete contacts .
mr president , let me say that i am shocked and horrified at the commission reply on the issue of iraq and the dismissive way in which they dealt with it .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
i hope it will thereby be possible to finance , in a significant way , the programme for recovery of the areas affected and that it will be drawn up according to the models for this type of action .
this issue of venezuela is serious and urgent .
i hope the commission is capable of mobilising the necessary human resources to deal with the priorities indicated by this parliament and i am sure that , if the commission , as it has proposed in its preliminary draft budget for 2001 , is going to be able to spend eur 815 million in the balkans , it will also be able to spend eur 50 million in venezuela .
mr president , this issue raises a problem which goes much further than the resolution on venezuela .
the problem involves the preservation of parliament ' s capacity to respond to this type of situation .
mr president , the three points which the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left wishes to make on the aid which the european union can and must give to venezuela as a result of the terrible flood disaster are : first , we should throw ourselves economically and technically into resolving the consequences suffered , and not reduce this aid , as the commission intends , in order to fund another catastrophe , this time artificial , caused by us in the balkans , in kosovo and in yugoslavia .
finally , last but not least , we should reflect on our methods of production and our consumption of natural resources , because this lies behind these catastrophes , and we should not be regularly lamenting them .
of course , we have had good experiences with the european union ' s contribution to central america after the mitch disaster , and we also saw a good initial reaction on the part of the commission , which quickly allocated eur 400 000 for emergency humanitarian aid to venezuela when the disaster mentioned by previous speakers happened .
we must remember for example that the european union is the main foreign investor in venezuela and that we have many cultural and social ties with those countries .
as a member of the european parliament ' s ad hoc delegation , i was able to witness the terrible effects of what is considered to be the worst natural disaster that has ever occurred in latin america .
this aid is directed at two things .
the disaster-prevention measures are very much in need of improvement , as we have indeed learned from this disaster in venezuela .
i believe the best way we can help the people in the long term is for us to concentrate on that .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
i believe that what happened to mr pelinka , a renowned academic respected by the scientific community , is indicative of the true nature of the coalition in power in austria .
there certainly is an urgent need to call on all the governments - as i propose - to support the monitoring centre .
mr president , i will tell you immediately that the eldr group refused to sign the joint resolution for a very simple reason : we find it a little over-emotional , while not forceful enough , and does not offer the possibility of a more political and more balanced choice in the name of parliament .
i do not understand their agreement on the text in its current form , in relation to the initial text that they themselves introduced .
i am sad to see the ovp members also giving us a sample here of the way they deal with government critics in their own country ; in fact attempting to present them as traitors to their country .
a policy that does not respect the independence of the judiciary does not , in the final analysis , respect the principle of the separation of powers and thus violates a basic principle of democracy .
the commission services have already requested the austrian authorities to appoint a new member of the management board .
the commission emphasises the importance of the independence of members of the management board , as provided for in the regulation on setting up the centre .
we are firmly convinced that the monitoring centre plays an important role in combating racism , xenophobia and anti-semitism .
before the vote on venezuela : mr president , the same applies here as to the one i just spoke about .
the president has already replied .
vote mr president , i simply wish to express our enormous sadness at the news we have just received concerning a horrendous accident on the spanish roads , in which a lorry has collided with a school bus transporting catalan school children , with an initial toll of 20 dead and 30 injured , some of whom are very seriously injured .
mr president , as rapporteur for the previous item , i have the task of explaining on behalf of the members of the group of the europe people 's party and european democrats that we abstained from voting on the legislative resolution because amendment 6 to article 2 of the directive has been adopted .
a written explanation of vote will be submitted .
this concerns amendments nos 4 , 5 , 6 , 18 , 21 , 33 , 36 , 40 , 42 and 46 , some of which directly imply policy down to individual schools in member states .
explanations of vote - redondo jimenez report ( a5-0152 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the redondo report which regulates european union interventions in the event of fires and atmospheric pollution .
i voted for the motion but i would prefer it if , in future , in implementing the proposal , we took into consideration the fact that many pensioners and elderly people live near forests and they are often the only people left in remote and countryside areas .
the amendments to the regulation on protecting forests against fires are particularly important for portugal .
for portugal , where fires have destroyed large areas of forest , it is vital to increase appropriations in order to supplement national investment in building infrastructure , for example , and to help local authorities , private landowners ' associations or wasteland management bodies to buy fire prevention equipment .
this is why the increase to eur 77 million in community appropriations proposed by the rapporteur as opposed to the eur 50 million proposed by the commission is so important .
i know the committee on agriculture tells us that we are having the wrong debate in defending an increase in the budget in the context of these reports .
personally , i consider that we have a political responsibility to send strong political signals to the commission , the council and the citizens .
in december 1999 , part of the european union was hit by terrible storms which devastated a large proportion of the forests in southern and eastern france and created despair among the victims , in particular small-holders .
regulation no 3582 / 86 is about the protection of forests against atmospheric pollution and regulation no 2158 / 92 has established a framework for the protection of forests against fires .
the rapporteur proposes increasing the sums allocated to both of these programmes , whereas the commission proposal seeks to cut them drastically .
the problem is identifying whether there actually is added value .
subsidiarity works in favour of community action in this specific context .
so , the nordic countries , which since 1998 have comprised most of europe ' s forested areas , are affected most of all by atmospheric pollution , stresses due to climatic factors and soil acidification whereas the countries of southern europe are more subject to the effects of desertification , drought and fires .
now , when the commission ' s communication of 2 february 2000 advocates resorting to the all-out precautionary principle and a community action programme in favour of civil protection instituted by the council decision of 9 december 1999 is waiting only to be implemented , is not the time to cut off funding for regulation no 2158 / 92 .
the heart of the problem is political , however .
some member states have expressed doubts as to the importance of forests , even though the forestry industry employs 2.2 million people in europe , and forests cover 36 % of the surface area of the european union !
we call on the european parliament to stand by its repeated votes and positions on the need to strengthen measures to prevent and fight fires and protect and enhance the value of our forest heritage in all areas of the union .
mr president , i abstained from the vote on the arvidsson report on restrictions on the use of phthalates .
the members of the group of the europe people 's party and european democrats choose to abstain from voting on the legislative resolution because amendment 6 to article 2 has been adopted .
reason : marking toys designed for children between 3 and 6 years of age and childcare articles manufactured completely or partially from soft pvc plastic containing phthalates , and their packaging , with a warning label is very difficult and in reality is likely to be tantamount to an indirect , extended ban .
i was a rapporteur on this subject in 1992 and i am particularly interested in following legislative developments on the subject .
to avoid encouraging children to suck or chew on their toys , we should add a clause to prevent flavouring substances being added .
consumer product safety commission , only rarely , if at all , among children is there a risk of exposure to harmful chemicals , as the quantities of phthalates in toys do not exceed that level which could be considered harmful .
although it was found in the 1980s that very large quantities of phthalates caused liver tumours in rats and mice , official agencies in europe and the united states have not confirmed that phthalates present a risk of cancer in humans .
in practice the problem is a minor one , however , as the european toy industry has , in the main , stopped using phthalates .
hieronymi report ( a5-0186 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the media report but i feel that , since pensioners and the elderly watch television more than anyone else and are therefore extremely interested in this european union aid , it would be beneficial if they were able to watch a european television channel broadcasting european programmes .
i therefore hope that my proposal will be taken into account when the document is implemented . - ( sv ) the swedish christian democrats have fundamental objections , based on the principle of subsidiarity as laid down in the maastricht and amsterdam treaties , to eu funds being used in any way to develop , produce or market what are known as european films and film training .
at no point in the texts , though , is this priority stated , but more especially , in none of the countries of the european union is it applied .
mombaur report ( a5-0180 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the motion partly because one of the recitals states that competition does not prevent the states from imposing public service obligations in the general interest on the parties involved .
as you will be aware , at the santa maria da feira european council , the commission was asked to present a report by march 2001 on developments in the energy markets under the lisbon strategy , so that we could assess progress in the liberalisation of the electricity market at the stockholm summit in march 2001 .
the energy sector is crucial to the economic development of a country and vital to its defence .
radwan report ( a5-0169 / 2000 ) mr president , the 1999 annual report of the european central bank is not terribly forthcoming on the subject of the main question that all observers are asking : why has the euro , which was presented as a strong currency , turned out in the end to be a weak currency ?
this will not change a great deal in the short term .
as i explained at a recent symposium of the french national assembly , the charter of fundamental rights is intended to serve , among other things , to put an even greater stranglehold on the peoples of europe in relation to community law and hence also in relation to the single currency .
this report reflects the concern felt by many leaders in the face of the public ' s virtually total lack of interest in the implementation of the euro .
we are , however , eighteen months away from a crucial deadline : the withdrawal of national currencies and the start of the physical circulation of euro notes and coins .
in order to make up for this omission , the european parliament is demanding that the information policy be stepped up , increasing appropriations by approximately 30 % , to eur 38 million per annum .
let me mention , incidentally , that we have always challenged the commission ' s option to make expenditure commitments without a legal basis , and we also challenged this interinstitutional agreement which the council was weak enough to accept in contravention of the customary principles of proper management of public monies .
in our vote , we attached importance to information being provided in the individual countries by the member states and to special agreements being entered into with the member states concerning this issue .
the karas report mainly intends to instil more confidence in the euro among the public at large by , inter alia , involving sports associations and education .
so when the honourable members reject the amendment tabled by william abitbol , simply asking that this integrationist objective be clearly stated in the commission ' s communication programmes , they are contributing to a propaganda operation which their voters will most certainly punish them for .
the resolution of the karas report claims that women for some reason do not share the general enthusiasm which should have greeted the implementation of the euro .
the principle of subsidiarity must be applied here , and each member state must retain control of the organisation of air traffic control .
in conclusion , i support the proposals to strengthen the role of eurocontrol , the pan-european agency responsible for the management of the airspace of european states , be they members of the european union or not , in its capacity as regulatory authority .
we must also measure the problems due to the air companies or the limited european civil airspace with regard to the number of overflights .
air traffic control does not play a very significant part in causing delays , in the final analysis , and , in any case , improvement of the system involves improving the organisation of the coordination of the various member state control systems , supporting eurocontrol in this role .
from this critical stance , we tabled 11 amendments .
since it is true that effective cooperation is required and since technical and disciplinary measures are essential in this area , we do not support these guidelines , which are even more radically in favour of liberalisation than those suggested by the commission .
we , on the other hand , are in favour of the harmonised development of transport on a european level , prioritising the fulfilment of real social needs , and opting for railways as the best solution for most needs , particularly for distances of less than 500 kilometres .
it is for all these reasons that i voted against this report .
damiao report ( a5-0141 / 2000 ) i voted for the damiao report , mr president , partly because i voted for the amendment which stipulated that women on maternity leave should receive a full allowance .
if there is enough money to spend on dogs and cats , there ought to be enough for women on maternity leave , who are not ill but people who have the right to a full allowance .
mr president , this report on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the health and safety at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding is very valid and is a step in the right direction .
it is a very important part of the cultural and social identity which every nation and every country creates .
moreover , we should not like our vote in favour of the specific protection of women night-workers during pregnancy to be interpreted as legitimising women ' s working night shifts .
the prohibition of night work for women is a right acquired by the working movement in france .
to speak of equality between men and women is hypocrisy .
we wish to point out and highlight the risks inherent in a strict prohibition on dismissal , especially under the present , extended regime of generalised atypical employment contracts and the indirect exclusion of pregnant women from jobs , a regime in which we need not just to maintain and consolidate but to increase maternity leave , define the maternity allowance more clearly and apply strict and more substantive controls on night work by pregnant and breastfeeding working women .
a strict european framework must be established to protect pregnant women against any form of discrimination during recruitment , regarding issues of their working conditions , access to maternity leave or its duration : 20 weeks including 8 mandatory weeks after the birth .
finally , night work must be prohibited for both men and women in sectors where it is not absolutely essential , rather than seeking to modify the conditions for pregnant women .
however , after five years , it has become clear that short shipping is still merely an empty promise which has not been kept , despite the verbal support by the transport council of 8 december 1999 , which considered short sea shipping as a priority .
it is a fact that transport shipping will increase by 70 % in the next decade .
it is impossible to meet this growing demand by road transport alone .
parliament and your rapporteur have looked at the commission plans with a critical eye and tried , in consultation with all parties involved , as befits a parliament , to compile this report .
once again , short sea shipping can only take off in europe if it is considered an integral part of the transport chain .
innovation in the construction of specialist ships will prove decisive here and this could give our shipbuilding industry a shot in the arm .
for example , the road transport monopoly springs to mind , with the impact this has on the levels at which short sea shipping should pitch its prices to tie in with bilbao ' s short sea port .
the market is still fragmented at present .
the setting up of these new lines requires critical mass and it could be one or two years before these resources are available .
the european union will need to help out by providing cheap loans from the european investment bank in order to overcome this difficulty .
furthermore , i wish to say that there are two things which i am regretting right now : firstly , that i am not able to hear the opinion of our friend mr fatuzzo on how short sea shipping affects the interests of european pensioners , and secondly , that so few members are present because , considering the egotistical interests of this house , it is probable that one day they will regret not having found out about the issue of short sea shipping , because they will perhaps have to use it one day to travel to and from strasbourg .
i would like to highlight the fact that in the last two years there have been a series of actions which have had positive effects on short sea shipping .
this has made it possible , as the commission ' s report points out , for intra-community sea transport activity to increase by 23 % between 1990 and 1997 .
all of this indicates therefore that we not only need more vigorous quantitative measures but that we probably need a different qualitative focus .
this means a revitalisation of the whole area , as is well known by the people who live in those cities , in those regions , in which the ship-building industry is a very active element in the local economy .
first , we can improve the interfaces with other modes of transport by introducing modern systems of transhipment - especially to inland shipping - standardising containers , promoting transport logistics services for the entire transport chain and by many other means mentioned in the report .
i hope that the next progress report in two years ' time will tell us that we have moved a little closer to our vision , our vision of a successful intermodal transport system in europe .
my group endorses amendments nos 1 and 4 accordingly .
if we were to interpret the regulation on maritime cabotage sensibly , we would say : of course these peninsulas are functionally equivalent to islands , and public service obligations apply in these cases as well .
mr president , mrs peijs , ladies and gentlemen , the commission ' s communication on the development of short sea shipping in europe and the very good report on it by mrs peijs give a realistic picture of the development of this environmentally-friendly mode of transport in europe over the past two years .
the development and promotion of short sea shipping are a particularly important step on the way to developing a system of multimodal transport for the european union and bordering regions .
efficiency , cost-effectiveness , environmental compatibility and sustainability distinguish this form of transport from road transport and can offer a serious alternative in coastal regions .
the integration of short sea shipping in the logistics chain of door-to-door delivery can be an effective means of sustaining the growing economic cooperation between the eu and its neighbouring states and satisfying the growing need for transport that accompanies it .
mr president , i would like to say the following on behalf of mr van dam .
transport policy requires choices .
the mode of transport we are discussing here , short sea shipping , has the reputation of being a mode of transport which can counter the negative effects of the transport sector , especially in terms of the space occupied and environmental pollution , in more than one way .
given the developments in the road transport sector as a result of new european emission standards for fuels , i am of the opinion that in order to boost the environmental performance of short sea shipping , we need to lay down a european directive concerning maximum permitted emission levels generated by ships ' engines .
mr president , commissioner , living as i do in a country with an extensive coastline and many islands - in fact i live on an island - , i have first-hand experience of the value of short sea shipping .
it is worth noting that , although the volume of traffic carried by this form of transport has risen over recent years , road transport has fared better , meaning that special attention needs to be given to this more environmentally-friendly form of transport .
developing cabotage has an immediate impact on social and economic development in our regions and hence on the cohesion of the european union .
as always , i would like to remind you that the regional and structural policy of the union , as a whole , is a response to the specific disadvantages suffered by certain european regions , such as the so-called outermost regions .
in this way , we could correct the error made by the commission when it drew up the two-yearly report on the development of this type of transport , of employing an incomplete definition of short sea shipping .
what is most peculiar about our situation is , however , that our shipping always comes to a halt in the winter unless certain measures are taken , because the sea freezes .
that is the problem .
it is an important addition to the reports on railways and air traffic .
for the measures proposed in the report to be implemented , good levels of co-operation will be required between the union , member states , players at local level , and companies too , as will genuine investment of time and money in short sea shipping .
mr president , first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report .
to be competitive ports have to be more efficient and for this they will certainly require more support .
mr president , mrs peijs , i should first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of her report .
there are , however , two points in your report that i have a problem with .
firstly , the proposal to draw up a list of ports particularly suitable for short sea shipping .
moreover , there is a suggestion that the logistical services offered to users should be combined in a single unit .
in this context and in this spirit , the member states should moreover harmonise their regulations so as to prevent distortions , which , particularly in the case of mainland transport , often cause hold-ups .
several bottlenecks hamper the development of short sea shipping .
national short sea promotion offices should play an essential role in implementing this policy .
thank you for ensuring that we all move in the same direction .
mr president , i should like to express my disappointment that on a matter on which i have had a written question before the commission for more than six weeks , and which i raised in the debate , i have had no acknowledgement , far less a reply .
thank you very much , mr maccormick .
the vote will take place tomorrow , friday , at 9 a.m .
civil dialogue the next item is the oral question to the commission ( b5-0533 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs , on the future financing of the civil dialogue .
firstly , it is indisputable that non-governmental organisations play a vital role in member states , in the european union and outside of the european union .
also , article 136 of the european treaty , in combination with declarations 23 and 38 , underlines that cooperation with wohlfahrtsverbande ( welfare associations ) is necessary , and these are also non-governmental organisations , of course .
the european parliament has always put its money where its mouth is and has for some time , for some considerable time , created a line , b3 4101 in order to finance non-governmental organisations .
the six million dollar question now is how we can translate the finely worded ideas we have all expressed into reality .
we might otherwise run the risk of failing to implement not just a core task stipulated in the european treaty , but also what has been stated by the european council in feira , because ngos - and this is the only problem - are extremely sensitive , at least the majority of them , to breaks in payments to them .
they are far more sensitive to this than other organisations , and certainly member states .
the court of justice ' s ruling on case c 106 / 96 together with the interinstitutional agreement of 13 october 1998 on the legal bases have altered the conditions for financing social non-governmental organisations .
moreover , the new rules on financing must be observed to the letter in all programmes and budget lines .
against this background , organisations financed in the past will continue to be financed in future only if they satisfy the conditions set out in the decisions on certain action programmes , which will form the legal basis for the budget line in question .
the commission will then approve the annual grants on the basis of detailed work plans and funding plans .
the ngos have already welcomed the guideline for the administration of financial aid that entered into force in 1999 as progress .
the conditions set out in it will be incorporated in the budgetary rules and their implementing provisions in due course .
the two programmes proposed by the commission - combating discrimination and social exclusion - should basically cover the running costs of the social ngos that operate on a europe-wide basis .
the commission also takes the view that civil society plays a most important role in the european union .
that have helped build up a stronger partnership , as was emphasised in the working document on the commission and the ngos adopted on 18 january 2000 .
in line with these priorities , the president and several members of the commission have made it clear on many occasions how much importance they attach to the civil dialogue .
the president of the commission intends to consider the question of the dialogue with the citizens in the framework of the white paper on strengthening democracy in europe .
finally , because we are of course involved in the development of ngos in the new member states , in the context of enlargement , we believe that this should be given extremely high priority .
the role of the non-governmental organisations in the democratic construction of the union and the economic and social role they play in europe , the entire social economy sector , the third sector , is now acknowledged in practice as well as in documents - if we consider that approximately nine million workers are employed in this sector - as a major sector of fundamental importance .
earlier today we discussed the annual report of the committee on petitions , that is the complaints end of the process of evaluating what is going on within the european union .
they make us think of new things and they are essential to our process .
the work we have been doing in various committees over the last few weeks on article 13 , the anti-discrimination article , would have been impossible without the input of those bodies .
i believe that if we set to work on a task like this with a certain diplomatic tactfulness , the member states would react positively to the proposal .
you must be aware of the problems experienced by a good number of smaller ngos in being able to respond to a number of invitations to tender .
the work they do in terms of relations and competencies is , however , just as important as that of the major ngos , but some of them do not have the same administrative facilities that some major ngos have .
it was not until the dutroux case that we were able to obtain a budget line enabling two programmes to be run : daphne and stop .
this is precisely why , given that social matters are essentially part of the remit of ngos , we must make progress in the matter of civil dialogue .
since the 1998 budget crisis which saw the freezing of funds destined for ngo work with some of the most vulnerable people in europe and the developing world , much progress has been made .
but words are not enough and two years after the 1998 budget crisis , the difficulties continue .
with our pre-accession aid , we are working very closely with the non-governmental organisations in the candidate countries ; moreover our communications strategy , the organisational and financial framework of which has now been established , is also very much targeted at non-governmental organisations in candidate countries , since the aim is precisely to fully involve civil society in this important political process .
the reason for the delay is that we have more than 200 pages of roll-call votes , which have cost parliament ' s budget the modest sum of bef 4 million .
i think that what went on there last night must be investigated at any rate .
at the beginning of the topical and urgent debate , we had a discussion on the application of rule 146 of the rules of procedure , that is to say adjournment of a debate .
mr maaten , rule 50 ( 6 ) stipulates that rules 143 , 144 and 146 shall not apply to those resolutions .
i would like to inform you that , as you are aware , yesterday a tragic road accident occurred in spain , near soria , in which 2 drivers and 25 teenagers died .
working document no 4 specifically deals with the actual mechanics of the plenary session , and i think that would be the appropriate environment for this type of discussion and for making improvements to our working methods .
mr mann , this week at least , the verbatim report of proceedings has been available to all members from 10 a.m .
vote mr president , although we consider the prospect of developing short sea shipping in europe , as well as inland waterway transport , as something positive , armonia bordes , chantal cauquil and i have chosen , nevertheless , to abstain from voting on this proposal .
however , as the commission report and the report of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism point out , short sea shipping is suffering from a poor public image in terms of its cost , slowness and inefficiency .
finally , i would have liked the report to have included the proposal made by the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy , according to which short sea shipping must be considered neither as an alternative to road transport nor as a competitive system .
the sole purpose of this proposal for a framework decision is to speed things up , at least with regard to the 15 member states .
first of all , this framework decision allows european countries to raise fines to make this offence - environmental crime - unprofitable .
by means of administrative cooperation between the member states , it is also possible to obtain such information as can be of use in enabling us to combat environmental crime .
it is important to try to cooperate as much as possible in this area .
i am in favour of the framework decision and of the amendments which have been tabled .
i also wish to praise this initiative by denmark , which seeks to ensure that a framework decision on combating serious environmental crime is approved .
it is therefore imperative that the methods for combating serious environmental crimes are strengthened and coordinated between member states .
furthermore , i must stress the need for educating and training the personnel who will be responsible for investigating and prosecuting environmental crimes , the need to highlight preventative measures and the need for all the member states to ratify the 1998 convention of the council of europe .
it is a logical continuation of the treaty of amsterdam and the council of ministers ' summit in tampere .
these are very complicated , very interesting and very important questions .
in many cases companies use the argument of negligence rather than saying it is deliberate but in fact negligence in its way is deliberate .
the other thing i would like to point out is that there are companies , such as british nuclear fuels , who have absolutely no sense of public responsibility or environmental awareness .
the erika is another example of negligence .
on an international level we have seen many many disasters in the past , just to take bhopal as an example .
the crimes are often committed by a corporate body .
having said that , if , as many of the members have said , the council of europe convention is more comprehensive and more consistent , perhaps in these cases we should also ask ourselves how the european union might be able to consider the council of europe texts directly in order to make legislation more homogeneous , both within and outside the union .
in the council of europe - and this has already been echoed by others - a convention was concluded in 1998 to fight international environmental crime .
and of course in the not-so-distant past there was chernobyl , the memory of which still haunts us .
mr president , i would first like to congratulate the danish government on taking the initiative to propose the council framework decision that we are discussing , which aims to equip us with more effective tools for combating serious environmental crime .
my colleague and compatriot carmen cerdeira contributed ideas and amendments that are now part of the text on which we are going to vote .
the first aspect is that it is recognised that a country may act against criminals when the crime against the environment has been committed on its own territory , but also when it has been committed in another country , if the consequences of that crime affect the former .
the second matter is the need to consider the international dimension of the crime .
obviously , this is , in the first place , a responsibility of the member states , and there should be international cooperation in this area .
environmental crime , whether it be the illegal trade in endangered species of flora and fauna or their products , or whether it be the illegal export and dumping of toxic waste in other countries , either inside or outside the european union , is a growing and increasingly a cross-border problem .
it is important that we have legislation in place to protect us against serious environmental crime before we see further enlargement of the european union .
some difficulties exist in resolving all of these to the satisfaction of the 15 member states of the union .
this proposal suffers from the same problems we have too often in the european union .
penalties are therefore essential , and they need to be designed to act as a deterrent and to be proportional to the damage to citizens ' quality of life .
in the committee on petitions , we are aware of the terrible frustration felt by those citizens who take the trouble to report environmental crimes and see that , in europe , we are incapable of coming to their aid in order to improve the natural environment in which they live and to prevent these crimes .
the worst environmental crimes are those perpetrated by companies , for which it is just part of their business .
i therefore think that when people start having to face the consequences , progress will be made in the matter both within the union and in other respects .
the initiative mainly focuses on this part , which in essence corresponds to the provisions of a convention which was adopted by the council of europe in november 1998 .
in accordance with this , a council working group - one speaker has gone into it already - is currently working just on the first part of the initiative , that is , on substantive criminal law .
there are already several initiatives and proposals on improving cooperation in criminal law matters , which are not limited to environmental criminal law .
with this in mind , the european judicial network was established in 1998 through a joint action .
while some member states have specified particular environmental offences in their criminal law , this is not the case with others .
a serious breach of environmental law is therefore not necessarily punishable in every member state .
the overall lack of enforcement in environmental protection cannot , of course , be corrected by criminal law measures alone , but here too , this framework decision would certainly provide new impetus .
under the first pillar , it is in principle up to the member states whether they regard sanctions of administrative law as adequate or whether they take up the sharper sword of criminal law .
irrespective of this , however , the persons responsible for serious environmental offences should , of course , also be subject to criminal law .
unfortunately , this gives the overall impression that perhaps many member states do not take the area of environmental protection and environmental law so seriously after all .
thank you very much , mrs schreyer .
the debate is closed .
after all , fighting and prosecuting environmental crimes is not a priority for many member states .
so what are you doing for those of us who live in liguria , in genoa , and although we have the sea , it is polluted ? " " do not worry " , i said , " today is friday 7 july .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday , 7 july 2000 .
i propose a minute ' s silence as a last tribute to these victims , as an expression of our support for their families and friends and , indeed , to all democratic men and women in spain , and particularly in the spanish basque country , who , despite the climate of terror , continue to believe in political dialogue , the fundamental values of civilised society and the ultimate victory of democracy .
this is much more than a metaphysical quotation from hegel .
we in euskal herritarrok also regret profoundly the loss of human lives and share with all basque citizens the shocked feelings of our people at the moment .
the action of eta is a righteous expression of the struggle for recognition of something quite elementary . ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr gorostiaga atxalandabaso , in view of the circumstances , i must say , personally , and this is perhaps not quite in keeping with my duties as president , that i find your contribution quite unacceptable here . ( loud applause ) tribute addressing more particularly those members of parliament that were members of the previous legislature , it is my very sad duty to inform you of the deaths , this summer , of vassilis ephremidis and staffan burenstam linder .
i should like to thank the 300 members who sent in their completed questionnaires .
madam president , we andalusians are proud to receive this broken-down vessel in our waters , but we are very concerned about the united kingdom ' s stubborn determination to repair the fault there .
mr bautista ojeda , i should like to point out that next thursday , in the topical and urgent debate , the safety of nuclear submarines will be discussed .
the execution is to take place in ten days time on 14 september , and i therefore feel that it is important that you , madam president , who are well-known for your sensitivity , write to the governor of the state of virginia on behalf of this house and request a stay of execution .
madam president , i am not about to enter into this debate , but i would just like to draw your attention and my fellow members ' attention to another matter concerning this city , which is the extremely sensitive and worrying situation of a group of hungarian gypsies who arrived in strasbourg on 24 july , following persecution and racial discrimination in their own country , and who are seeking political asylum not only in our country , but also in other european union countries .
i do not wish to go into the details of the situation , but the essence of the problem is of very direct concern to us since , on the one hand it provides a very tangible and specific illustration of the problems involved in applying the copenhagen criteria , which require urgent solutions , and on the other hand , the problems that certain countries that are candidates for membership of the european union have in fulfilling the terms of the treaty .
then again , it also forces us to state , once again , that respect for minorities and human rights must be assessed in the same way and on a par with compliance with the economic criteria .
the group of 46 people who are here , madam president , the zamoli gypsies , are placing all their hope in the ability of this house to achieve progress in these matters .
thank you , mrs gillig .
madam president , i am one of those meps who need to travel for 24 hours in order to be here by 5.00 p.m .
however , the amendment has not been correctly translated into spanish since , where it talks about the peripheral regions , i wished to refer , and i in fact did refer , to the outermost regions of the european union .
madam president , since a colleague has mentioned the name of gibraltar could i remind the house that sunday , 10 september is the national day in gibraltar and some of us will be there .
yesterday , the ministers of the 15 imposed sanctions on burma , and there has been a siege of the elected leader of burma , aung san suu kyi , and an outburst of violence around her home .
lord bethell , i have , myself , already made a statement on this subject because we are extremely concerned about the highly insecure situation of the winner of the european parliament sakharov prize and we are monitoring this situation extremely closely .
i would ask this house to give urgent consideration to the exclusion of those citizens and to secure their representation in this parliament so they can bring their concerns to this house themselves .
i should also like to express my respect , however , for those who do smoke , and to defend their right to smoke .
for example , it would appear appropriate to place an ashtray at the point which marks the end of a smoking area and the start of a non-smoking area in order to avoid cigarette butts burning the floor , but this is a question of common sense .
madam president , i would like to speak against this proposal .
we had initially heard that it was not possible to vote on the valdivielso report because commissioner patten was not here .
it now turns out that commissioner patten is here and it seems to me that any technical problem that there may have been , and i am aware of that possibility , could be resolved by the parliament services within no more than 2 or 3 hours .
i would therefore ask that the vote on the meda regulation be included in this part-session and if the services really need one more day to resolve the technical problems , that the vote be delayed for one day .
mrs terron , there is clearly a technical problem here .
it will not therefore be possible to vote tomorrow at noon because not all members will have had time to see the amendments .
a suitable time for it to speak on this matter would be tomorrow morning when the council and the commission make their statements on the union 's external action priorities .
but i would ask the commission to ensure that our position on the enlargement of the european union is the one which we have always held , namely that by the year 2003 we in the european union wish to be capable of enlargement , and to ensure that these principles are upheld here !
first of all , in our view , the enlargement of the union , the incorporation of other european countries in the liberal order of europe , is the number one priority that we face in the next few years .
we have to go out and sell the case for enlargement to public opinion in all the member states of the european union .
it would be wrong if it seemed to some of our voters in the fifteen member states that enlargement was an issue for the political elites of europe .
i will relay it to commissioner verheugen . ( applause ) madam president , i am very grateful to the commissioner for his statement .
i applaud the view expressed by the commissioner that we all share the task of selling this historic challenge but i deplore the fact that someone as pre-eminent as commissioner verheugen , at least according to a number of newspapers today , should say the member states should not leave the commission to do the dirty job alone .
it is important to understand that a commissioner , commissioner verheugen in this case , has a role to speak for europe .
madam president , there was a lot of animated discussion in our group about the position commissioner verheugen has adopted , and our main conclusion was that transparency , more than anything , is now required in the negotiations on enlargement .
i am speaking here as a german and as the acting chairman of my group .
my group has always believed that not only the commission as a whole but also all of the individual commissioners must justify themselves before this parliament , and this regardless of their nationality and regardless of any affiliation to a political party .
i should like to say that my own group is in favour not only of " selling " enlargement or other major projects to public opinion but also of getting our fellow citizens closely involved in all the major phases of european construction , including by means of referenda .
we are , however , totally opposed to the idea of using the referendum as a sort of threat which could be abused by some " stirrers " , exploiting fears and , in particular , unwillingness to open up to others .
consequently , in order to ensure that enlargement is a success in the eyes of public opinion in our respective countries and in the eyes of the citizens of the countries of central and eastern europe , i am in favour of dispelling any misunderstanding , and thus of giving commissioner verheugen the opportunity to offer parliament a clear explanation .
i think the most suitable time would be on tuesday , when the council and commission will be making their statement on the european union ' s priorities for external action .
madam president , i would like to speak in favour of enrique baron crespo 's proposal for the reasons he has outlined so eloquently .
madam president , my group takes the opposite view , to the effect that it is important to vote upon a resolution .
in the first place , it is not the first time that parliament has given an opinion on the subject of human cloning .
if anyone adopted a unilateral stance on these occasions , it was the british government which , without any prior consultation whatsoever , adopted a position in favour of therapeutic cloning .
i refer to rule 118 of the rules of procedure .
in actual fact we have already discussed this and parliament has always been opposed to it .
but a majority of parliament has always adopted an uncompromising position .
madam president , i support this proposal and justify it on the basis of the fact that quite a lot has been said about iran recently .
the situation is very delicate and a lot is happening there , but there has been discussion about it .
we would very much like to see a place on the agenda to discuss the nuclear power plant at temelin , as in many member states , especially in austria , obviously , as it is next door to it , the situation is very tense .
if you are looking for support , then i would be pleased to support this proposal from the ppe because it concerns an extremely positive development in macedonia , which could in fact be further consolidated by a swift endorsement from parliament .
i shall then give my opinion of the proposed regulation , as well as the report as a whole .
specifically , this economic and financial aid must facilitate the completion of a free trade area by 2010 , to which end aid programmes have been implemented , both for macroeconomic reforms and for sectoral reforms and structural adjustments .
we must remember that the ratio between the per capita income of the european union and the meda countries is 1 to 10 , that is to say a very considerable gap .
meanwhile , measures are also being considered to facilitate private investment in these 12 countries , which in 1994 amounted to eur 3 500 million , particularly by means of updating legislation and administration , as well as by means of meetings between companies belonging to the meda countries and the european union .
the meda programme seeks to clear the way towards a definitive and lasting peace in that part of the world by means , amongst other things , of economic stability .
we are talking about a population of around 230 million people which , given the current rate of growth , will reach 300 million in 10 or 12 years time .
the barcelona agreement signed by 27 countries , those of the european union plus the 12 countries of the southern mediterranean : algeria , cyprus , egypt , israel , jordan , lebanon , malta , morocco , the palestinian authority , syria , tunisia and turkey .
the three main objectives involve the political and security dimension , the economic and financial dimension and the social , cultural and human dimension .
there has been particular criticism of sub-contracting associations such as rtm .
above all , the european parliament must take part in the process and must be kept informed more regularly , particularly through the euro-mediterranean forum .
it would be appropriate to speed up the signing of the association agreements , which to date have been signed only with 7 countries .
this particularly concerns lebanon , algeria , syria , etc .
secondly , project selection must be more democratic and must , to a greater extent , involve greater participation by civil society and ngos , who continually expressed this desire , especially at the european parliament round table held in brussels on 29 june this year , entitled ' towards a sustainable meda ' .
we would therefore ask that a report on the human rights record of each of the signatory or candidate countries be presented to parliament annually to be taken into consideration in the selection of projects .
we must therefore comment on the volume of appropriations dedicated to regional schemes which , we acknowledge , are harder to negotiate and implement but which correspond to the objective of efficiency , particularly in improving south-south relations and , above all , in safeguarding more extensive action for decentralised cooperation , which we all consider to be an important goal .
fifthly , on the subject of the six priority areas of partnership , the environment , water policy , industry , energy , transport and the information society , we think it essential to reactivate programmes disregarded until now , the smap adopted in helsinki in 1997 on the environment .
at least eur 10 million must be allocated annually for water .
i should also like to stress the interest which commissioner busquin has taken in our work , reactivating mediterranean cooperation in the field of research , particularly at the forthcoming informal summit on capri , on 29 september .
firstly , mr valdivielso de cue added , and i congratulate him on this , a fundamental idea , namely the need to make a real commitment to the mediterranean by granting this region aid comparable with that granted to the countries of eastern europe .
mr valdivielso de cue has done excellent work on all these points .
i do , however , feel that one fundamental matter , immigration , has not been sufficiently taken into account by this proposal for a regulation .
let me , in conclusion , quote mr prodi who said that immigration must become a factor in development .
i would urge the house to support the two amendments tabled to the pietrasanta report in the name of this group .
our friends in these countries understandably question our sincerity .
i accept that free access to europe for mediterranean products poses problems for producers in our southern member states , but surely this problem could be compensated at least to some extent in the cap .
i would like to remind you , commissioner , that the barcelona agreements talk about an area of free trade and economic cooperation and of security and they also talk a great deal about the cultural and human dimension .
to this end , commissioner , we ask , and my group will act in accordance with this request in the budgetary debate , for the restoration in the regulation of the amounts allocated to meda , so that these will remain at least equal in real terms to those allocated during the previous period .
while the problems in the mediterranean remain serious , and there has been considerable delay in implementing the barcelona decisions that were designed to tackle them , we cannot accept a reduction in investment .
eliminating tension and promoting balanced development in the mediterranean third countries leads to greater security , prosperity and prospects for the european union .
therefore , mediterranean policy must be a fundamental pillar of the union ' s external action , which will benefit the european union itself .
the different aspects mentioned in each report must be taken into account because they make a wonderful contribution to achieving this .
too frequently i meet people who have extensive experience of the local association movement , who feel let down by the procedures they have to follow in order to receive subsidies .
the meda programme also raises fundamental questions about our euro-mediterranean policy in general .
the growth in competition could eat away at the industrial fabric of these countries , which in some cases consists of vulnerable small and medium-sized enterprises .
an evaluation of meda i and the wording of meda ii clearly demonstrate the need for this .
it would appear from the conclusions of the european council of feira ( 19 and 20 june 2000 ) that the eu ' s mediterranean policy is founded on ' the partnership ' .
may these reports and this debate help to realise these lofty ambitions .
mr president , i too wish to stress how important relations with the southern countries are for europe , in particular with those in the mediterranean basin .
we have been working in this area for almost ten years and for the last five , the significant meda programme has been available to us .
mr president , in the development of relations with the mediterranean , europe cannot fail to give due importance to this geographical area of the world .
the mediterranean sea is the testing ground for the european parliament ' s capacities to act outside the borders of the union .
it is a well-known fact that the great europe which is a dream of so many cannot be achieved without the political and economic involvement of this major , fundamental part of the union .
mr president , now that all the honourable members ' wishes have been voiced , i feel we must resolve to make urgent changes to the way in which the implementation of the meda programmes is organised .
mr president , while discussing the meda programme it might also be important to consider the balance that is supposed to exist throughout the union .
new initiatives to support cohesion policy , such as the union ' s northern dimension that stepped into the limelight during the finnish presidential term , must also be seen as important projects for the union as a whole , especially with regard to the challenges of eastward enlargement .
mr patten , stick to your guns !
parliament ought to support you on this .
the council or the member states have a right to be consulted , but they do not have a right to co-decision .
you will be judged on enlargement towards the east , but also on whether you create your own room for manoeuvre in external policy .
mr president , as someone who lives in the mediterranean , under the mediterranean sun and who enjoys mediterranean traditions and culture , i would like to speak up for the countries of that area .
the meda programme , which largely failed in the first stage , perhaps did not appreciate that the situation of the mediterranean countries , given the direction that european politics are taking , is extremely difficult .
it is extremely difficult in those countries to change the agricultural system and , nevertheless , they have to share their products with other countries of north africa , of the mare nostrum , which belongs to everyone at the same time .
therefore , we must have a fair policy , and to this end the meda programme may be a start , although i believe that , in many cases , it is based on criteria that are important to the northern countries .
i therefore support a process of industrialisation based on innovation - we must not turn to the old industries but to innovation - and of supporting projects relating to technological innovation and training .
in this respect , i believe it is a mistake to turn to large projects .
i thought that mr linkohr made some extremely pertinent and challenging points .
mr pietrasanta 's report is also favourable towards the 1998 meda programme report .
the commission proposes to reduce excessive scrutiny arrangements for individual projects in the management committee by introducing strategic programmes through the yearly adoption of national financing plans and a regional financing plan and simplifying decision making .
the simplifications that we have requested would bring meda programming procedures in line with those of other financial instruments of eu external relations programmes .
the economic growth of these countries is of key importance to their political and social stabilisation .
in that spirit , we can fully endorse amendments nos 2 , 8 , 9 , 11 , 12 , 15 , 17 , 19 , 20 , 30 , 33 , 37 and 41 and we can partially accept amendment nos 4 , 5 , 6 , 10 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 26 , 28 , 31 , 35 , 38 and 40 providing some slight verbal modifications .
however we cannot support amendment no 25 , which proposes an individual examination of financing proposals by the med committee .
we think this is contrary to the spirit of our overall proposal on the revision of the meda regulation , because we want to streamline and simplify procedures .
enough staff to do the job is one of the key principles underlying the commission 's efforts to reform its external assistance services .
our programmes in the mediterranean are at the core of my agenda , along with the reinvigoration of the barcelona process .
our funding of programmes in the mediterranean between now and 2006 is probably the largest of all our programmes representing over 20 % of our efforts externally .
but we will be tested by what we do with meda and what we do in the balkans and by how these programmes actually work on the ground .
the vote will be taken on wednesday at 12 noon .
mr president , i believe that we all agree that in 2000 , obviously , the community already enjoys numerous and fundamental competencies in the external field .
with the cfsp , the union ' s external activity takes on a new dimension , definitively going beyond the economic field in order to participate actively in external policy .
secondly , we wish to clarify and develop the legal status of the commission ' s current external delegations , their role and their relationship with the various community institutions .
we therefore propose that the commission delegations become community delegations so that their relations with the council may be closer , through the high representative of the cfsp , as well as their relations with the european parliament and its members , thereby guaranteeing greater efficiency and political control of their activities .
thirdly and lastly , we intend to improve the coordination between the delegations and the external services of the member states .
in particular , i would like to express my gratitude for the other contributions which , in committee and with tomorrow ' s vote in parliament , greatly enrich the initial proposal .
mr president , this report on a european parliament initiative highlights an extremely important issue that we are facing , not only in the field of common foreign and security policy but in the context of enlargement of the european union itself .
it would be strange - not to say dangerous - if the european union did not at the same time strive to improve its common diplomatic instruments .
there is no excuse for lagging behind in this area , even if we take the factor of each member state ' s national interest into account as well as the almost purely economic nature of the history of the community ' s institutions between the treaty of rome and the treaty of maastricht .
it is no exaggeration to state with all certainty that diplomatic activity is becoming more and more involved in the economic sphere and to say that , in turn , economic interests cannot be protected without diplomatic activity .
it is quite clear that , amongst other obstacles , organising matters according to pillars and the fact that the european union has no legal personality both make it more difficult to achieve this aim and forced this report ' s proposals to perform some clever balancing tricks .
the wealth and diversity of diplomatic experience in the various countries of europe is also recognised throughout the world .
it would be a mistake to think that any of the proposals put forward in this report could harm processes that are under way in the field of cfsp in general , or in the field of diplomacy in particular .
the underlying aim of this report , as we understand it , following on from several discussions held over a period of months , is to bring together all relevant current experiences and processes and to direct them towards a common goal , which is , by and large , to create a genuine common european diplomatic service .
mr president , we in the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party set great store by the fact that this is not an attempt to set up a single diplomatic corps to replace the member states ' external services .
rather , it is a question of improving the quality of the external service the community already has and of improving cooperation between that service and the member states ' external services .
this means that the message we send to the european citizens can only be contradictory .
second : the accidental occurrence of contradictions in interventions by different countries on issues affecting the interests of the european union .
third : the insufficient coordination in the defence of points of view , interests and responsibilities of the european union in international bodies of a political , economic , cultural nature etc . , such as the un , the international monetary fund , the world trade organisation , the who etc .
fourth : we have also noted that the presence of the european union is weak in relation to its economic importance and also in relation to the significant presence of the united states .
we therefore believe it is important to proceed with the proposal presented in the report and , furthermore , to take more cohesive action , make a greater impact and make greater progress in that direction .
therefore , as i said at the beginning , our group will broadly support mr galeote quecedo ' s report .
the only reason for this college ' s existence is to create a common diplomatic service and to do so in a completely transparent way , as outlined in the galeote quecedo report .
the issue is of fundamental importance and there is a powerful taboo in this parliament which we are never prepared to confront : that we have fifteen national diplomatic services , which have been strengthened over years of integration by gradually taking over the competencies of all the national ministries and which have become the real powers , the main power blocking any possible reform of foreign affairs and diplomacy , because it is their power that would ultimately be under threat .
i am rather disappointed that the report does not discuss these issues and somewhat surprised that the epp has adopted this position given that , tomorrow , in another report on the union ' s political priorities , it will probably adopt a more forthright position on the communitisation of external policy .
the rapporteur rationalises his intention at the very beginning of his report .
mr galeote quecedo makes the same point himself in his explanatory statement .
mr president , the question i am dying to ask is this : to what extent do the member states themselves actually share the rapporteur ' s views ?
i believe that this report represents a move in the right direction .
this means that their specific importance in many cases , given the significant quantities they have to distribute , is greater than that of the ambassadors and of the member states .
i hope , mr president , that these initiatives will contribute effectively to the creation of a more visible and coherent external policy for european union action .
i would like to speak on behalf of the non-federalists in our group who actually feel that europe is centralising far too much and more and more powers are being taken away from people at local and national levels , basically without any proper democratic control .
i am not being nationalistic and saying that i want the irish embassy , but there is a certain amount of danger in this , particularly because it is geared towards the common foreign and security policy , which is not in the interest of the developing world or of the peoples that have been persecuted and exploited by member states of this union .
the proposal to create a community diplomatic corps and a college of diplomacy is not intended to fill a vacuum in community legislation .
there are many points of detail in the report which are particularly controversial , not least the idea of european union embassies and the suggestion that the european union should have " coordinated representation in international bodies such as the un . "
the commission 's external assistance programmes account for nearly eur 10 billion this year , and the priority task of the community delegations is to administer these programmes properly and efficiently .
he said that there is an urgent need to focus activities on core tasks and that additional staff needs will be concentrated in the area of project and programme implementation , in particular within delegations .
mr president , the informal meeting of foreign ministers in evian has , in fact , already anticipated to some degree the excellent proposals in mr galeote quecedo ' s report .
when i go on foreign trips , i always ask for a meeting to be arranged which will be attended by all the eu ambassadors , i.e .
and then there are complaints that the joint policy of the eu member states is not in the limelight enough , and that although people in indonesia know full well what japan and the united states are doing there , they do not have a clear enough idea as to what the 15 member states of the european union are doing there .
paragraph 1 - the setting up of a college of european diplomacy .
but i am taking the floor as someone who until last april was a very ordinary civil servant in the german diplomatic service , and so people might perhaps think that i would be certain to be relatively sceptical about an approach of this kind because it will surely tend to erode the powers of national colleagues .
i can say without any reservation that the commission has benefited from the report and it is bound to make a permanent impression on the way we run our external service in the future .
the fact that we called all our heads of delegation to brussels at this time is a sign of our determination to give a firm lead to the external service and to provide it with the career structure and the leadership that it deserves and needs .
members will have seen the communication on the development of the external service that was adopted by the commission on 18 july .
it recommends continuing to rebalance delegation staff between officials and local agents and continuing the regionalisation of our representation in a way that will free up 32 official posts immediately to be redeployed to delegations that need reinforcement .
however , even though some of these are urgent priorities , our first concern must be to use available resources to reinforce some of our existing delegations .
the communication also describes the measures we are taking to devolve authority from brussels to delegations in the field , known in jargon as " deconcentration . "
this is closely linked to our efforts to reform our external assistance programmes .
if we get through our reform proposals and if they are supported by the budgetary authority , in the scr and the bureau d 'assistance technique combined we will have fewer people managing our external programmes , though we will have more than at present in the scr .
but we will have fewer people in brussels and more people in the field .
a number of the points raised by the resolution , for example on regionalisation and on the evaluation of our network of external representations , are already covered in our own communication .
the report stresses the role of the commission and its delegations in the community 's external activities and it is , of course , essential that the commission 's external service be able to continue to contribute properly .
the first step must be to develop the training of officials in the commission who deal with external relations .
on the legal status of delegations i should say that although delegations are formally delegations of the commission they are under clear instructions to give all possible assistance to all the institutions of the european union and indeed to member states .
we have made it absolutely clear to our delegations that they should regard themselves as working for the high representative and for the other institutions of the european union , both when it comes to reporting and when it comes to logistical issues .
in our 1998 communication on the external service , we made it clear that any member state that wished to keep a presence in a third country without maintaining an embassy was welcome to use the commission 's delegations .
there is already a considerable degree of cooperation between member states ' embassies and commission delegations .
the commission also supports and , when appropriate , seeks to participate in co-location projects where more than one member state and / or the commission agree to occupy premises jointly .
there are ten in our delegations at the moment , with a few more due in the near future .
the restriction on the development of this programme is not lack of will on our part - i want to make that clear - but to some extent a lack of resources and also a certain reluctance on the part of the member states to respond to our invitation to second diplomats to the delegations .
we have to cooperate better without finding ourselves in a situation in which everything we do is second-guessed , not just in brussels , but in other countries as well .
all this discussion about coordination and about the future of the external service takes place against the backdrop of a treaty which talks about a common foreign and security policy , not a single foreign and security policy in a union of fifteen member states , each with its own foreign minister .
in welcoming this report and in promising active cooperation in following its recommendations i must stress that if the external service is to carry out the role which parliament wants for it , it must have the resources to do so ; that is , not just resources to place officials in third countries but also to ensure that they are properly trained , that they are equipped with the necessary information technology and that they have secure means of communication .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the debate is closed .
in this case , we have almost 600 projects which were approved in due time and which are to be financed by the ecip .
the commission has therefore proposed - after a delay which we condemn in our report , caused , of course , by the events of 1999 - to extend , not the legal basis itself , but the existence of the technical assistance offices and the means which are essential for the management of the sizeable remainder of the ecip - 590 projects - and to do so for two years .
i have to say , commissioner , that the committee on development and cooperation has been faced with the opinions of the other parliamentary committees - the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control - on this matter .
we , the committee on development and cooperation , have understood the commission ' s message , the request to assist the ecip project - which , i repeat , has contributed , along with other projects , to the creation and growth of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in third world countries and has , in effect , raised the profile of the union and enabled it to penetrate a new sector , which is therefore important to the commission - and we have therefore decided not to go along with the more restrictive opinions of the other committees or to make amendments to the commission ' s principal request to be granted two years to bring this major economic cooperation instrument to the best possible conclusion and to honour the agreements , signed before 31 december 1999 .
however , at the same time , commissioner , we have made a request : we have called upon you to inform parliament of what the commission intends to be the future of this instrument and to do so in good time for us to be able to reflect on the matter , together if possible .
we are aware of the differences of opinion and the possible conflicts of responsibilities between external relations and development and therefore between the responsibilities of the individual directorates-general , and possibly even between the responsibilities of the individual commissioners , but we are also aware that , during restructuring , the responsibility for external relations is extremely carefully reviewed by yourself , in particular , commissioner , and by the entire commission .
mr president , the committee on budgetary control unanimously supports the objectives of the ec investment partners programme .
the first point to note is that the commission is currently operating in a legal vacuum , because the proposal to continue the programme - which has after all already been extended twice - was only tabled at the end of january , that is , one month after the regulation had expired , and will not be able to be adopted until late autumn .
we endorse the legislative proposal as a stopgap measure until the end of 2001 , because we do not deny that , according to the figures published , 34 000 firms have been involved as partners , creating over 1 300 joint ventures and 42 000 jobs .
so , clearly , when you look at facilities 2 , 3 , 4 and 1b , you soon realise that the work was not done by somebody who was a banker , but by somebody who perhaps was a bureaucrat and knew nothing about finance and lending to projects which could be viable .
the socialist group supports all cooperation measures which , like this one , help to make companies , and economies in general , more dynamic , by means of private initiative .
according to the external evaluation it has been subjected to , the ecip has demonstrated a significant multiplier effect , creating jobs and joint ventures .
we now hope , commissioner , that the future programme that will replace it will add better management to these positive effects .
nevertheless , we have to say that although we are happy with the successes of this programme , we socialist members of the committee on development and cooperation suggest that the main objective of any instrument for aid , including those in the private sector , must be to reduce poverty in those countries , which is ultimately the objective of these instruments .
we cannot say that in the evaluations control has always been exercised over the quality of aid via the ecip .
for example , when a bank is established in a beneficiary country by means of ecip funds , how can we be sure that these funds are directed towards attracting investment and not simply to subsidising the presence of the bank in that country ?
now that the agreement on free trade , political concertation and cooperation between the european union and mexico has just entered into force , it is a good time to remember that we should continue with this type of financial instrument which , in some cases , such as mexico , has been used intensively and positively , and is ideally suited to strengthening commercial ties between particular blocks , such as the european union and the countries involved .
in my opinion , this requires a strengthening of human resources in the commission ' s offices in the countries involved .
mr president , the proposed ecip development programme provides a pretty picture of the european commission ' s mismanagement .
it appears that , last year , the eur 90 million that were budgeted for this programme were not even used , due to a lack of human resources available to study the dossiers , which are piled up on a desk somewhere in brussels .
lastly , the criteria for the distribution of funds between the different foci of the programme , particularly the social rights of workers , have remained impenetrably vague .
mr president , i shall be voting against the dell 'alba report , and more generally against the ecip and meda programmes , which were basically designed to finance subsidies and loans to private companies investing in latin america , asia , the mediterranean and in south africa .
the stated political aim of these programmes is to encourage the opening up of these countries ' markets to european capital .
i therefore object to these programmes across the board , because in spite of a few hypocritical phrases about fighting poverty , they all seek to provide the imperialism of the great european powers with additional instruments for getting a foothold in poorer countries and then dominating them .
mr president , we are holding a debate on an issue which is of relatively modest importance in budgetary terms , ambitious in its objectives , relatively encouraging in its results , inefficient because of its cumbersome management procedures , at times contradictory and , in short , there is clearly room for improvement in the future .
we have already talked a lot about this in relation to the acp countries and we must apply the same criteria in relation to the countries of latin america and the southern mediterranean .
let me thank mr dell 'alba and the development and cooperation committee very sincerely for their excellent work on the commission proposal on the future of the european community investment partners .
the ecip instrument operated successfully for 12 years , from 1988 to 1999 .
from 1991 , the commission sent annual reports on the implementation and on the results of ecip to parliament and to the council , of which the last covered operations in 1999 .
parliament also received the independent evaluation report that was completed in december 1999 , but , as honourable members will know , from 1997 ecip began to run into trouble .
the lack of sufficient staff to ensure the smooth management of an ever-increasing number of actions resulted in delays in the implementation of the programme , which in turn caused growing discontent among its beneficiaries .
the commission decided not to extend the instrument beyond 31 december 1999 .
this will allow better coordination with other similar european union instruments and ensure improved management and financial procedures in the light of the new commission guidelines on development policy and the management of external aid .
the approval of the proposed regulation will make possible the continued sound management of existing ecip projects and their orderly closure and winding-down as they reach completion .
as far as the suggested amendments are concerned , the commission agrees with amendment nos 1 and 2 , which correspond with our views on the need to reassess , improve and redesign the existing financial instruments for the support of private investment .
as regards amendment no 3 , the commission agrees with the principle behind it but is not in a position to provide the legislative proposals requested by parliament by the end of this year .
it will allow the commission to bring this programme to an end in a responsible manner and to launch renewed and improved initiatives for promotion of the private sector in developing countries .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the debate is closed .
this is why we have proposed - and i hope that commissioner patten , who is not listening to me at the moment , will take this proposal on board with due consideration - that an information campaign be mounted to inform the public of our countries how our money is being spent and how our resources are being used , and we propose that this information campaign should not , of course , be financed out of echo funds but out of the ad hoc funds .
mr president , the rapporteur , mr imbeni , has done an excellent job .
the united nations ' intergovernmental panel on climate change , ipcc , has reported , for example , that we can already see a , " discernible human influence on global climate . "
our concepts of crisis management ought therefore , in my opinion , also to have a socio-political dimension and be integrated into development policy and , for example , economic policy strategy .
otherwise we will , in many cases , only be repairing the damage inflicted as a consequence of our own policy , and the people in the countries of the south , in particular , will suffer as a result of the disasters which we have caused .
the second problem is directly linked to the first and yet is of a very practical nature .
mr president , commissioner , i would like to congratulate mr imbeni because i believe he has produced a splendid report and , while we were debating it in committee , we were already in complete agreement with his proposals .
the socialist group believes that aid policy must be the flagship of the european union ' s external activities insofar as it reflects the ideas which must inspire the construction of the european union , that is to say , solidarity and cohesion on a global level .
in these times of commission reform , when many community policies and procedures are being questioned , humanitarian aid has been evaluated positively by different bodies and , of course , on a political level , by parliament .
however , we , who have seen and evaluated what echo has done , believe that its work has been very positive .
this report therefore serves to ratify the principle of humanitarian aid as a right for people involved in disasters and an obligation on the part of the international community , in which the european union is a major player , in both quantitative and qualitative terms .
we have seen this in the case of mozambique and other disasters .
in this respect , the commission and the council ' s budgetary proposals are far from meeting what we believe to be the humanitarian needs .
we believe that it is essential that , when a humanitarian catastrophe occurs , whether natural or caused by man , instruments are already in place .
in this respect , we wish to highlight the importance of dipecho .
the socialist group supports the principles which govern humanitarian aid and its future in the terms which i expressed earlier .
more to the point , it can , and must , take a leading role in this field in view of the added value it offers compared with the individual states .
in order to mobilise the necessary public support for emergency aid , it would be a good idea to give greater publicity to what europe does and why .
and what this means in terms of echo , which is the seed , is that although it does not have to handle all the reconstruction work itself , it does have to make all the necessary preparations .
a number of speakers have already said as much this evening .
unfortunately , humanitarian aid cannot play this role and must not serve only to bail out a liberal policy which at the same time murders the populations of the countries in receipt of aid .
systematic training in how to deal with earthquakes and floods as well as in preventing violence would be welcome in many parts of the world .
these could also initiate cooperation with other worldwide organisations in the field of humanitarian aid , beginning with those in member states , since there is a considerable lack of coordination in their actions .
venezuela has been waiting since last december for the aid it was promised .
surely there is nothing more important in developing countries than education .
debt relief programmes for third world countries must be put in place permanently .
the joint united nations programmes on aids has already estimated that 95 % of all hiv-infected individuals live in developing countries .
the ugandan president has set up a massive programme to deal with the aids pandemic in his own country .
european union leaders are meeting in nice in december to discuss the reform of eu policy programmes .
i must remind you that in rwanda , in kosovo , in mozambique , in central america , the sacrifices , sometimes of their lives , of those working in cooperation with us , have been some of the most inspiring stories in the history of the european union .
in the small amount of time i have for this intervention i must add that i agree with the imbeni report and , in particular , i would like to highlight the following issues .
i have already referred to the problem of human resources , as well as the problem of visibility , and the objectives must be clarified .
in certain cases , in cuba for example - as you know , commissioner - in the guise of humanitarian aid , programmes are implemented which are no such thing , but simply a form of concealed cooperation , sometimes for reasons of ' ideological solidarity ' with the castro regime .
but , it is also important that we should acknowledge the enormous amount of good that our help does , day-in day-out , often in extremely difficult circumstances , often in very difficult situations right across the world .
we are the biggest providers of this humanitarian assistance in the world and it is important , occasionally , that we remember that .
in this context , the commission has decided to focus echo 's interventions based on a definition of the term " humanitarian " which is , in my judgement , generous and flexible but is not infinitely elastic .
both commissioner nielson and i want to help countries and peoples in emergencies .
the ngo sector is an extremely important channel , but the united nations and the red cross movement are also valued partners .
mr imbeni mentioned the important issue of visibility .
the humanitarian aid we give will continue to be governed by the principles of impartiality and non-discrimination laid down in our regulation and accepted by the humanitarian community worldwide .
it is an element of our external identity demonstrating that europe can act worldwide with one voice and that it can make a difference on the ground .
as the biggest single source of humanitarian aid funding worldwide , as i said earlier , the european union has a responsibility to be not just the biggest in terms of quantity but the best in terms of delivery .
that is our clear and ambitious goal .
what has most depressed me about the international scene over the years is that , in practice , our ability to deliver humanitarian relief rapidly in the most unpromising circumstances has increased a great deal more than our ability to prevent that humanitarian assistance being necessary in the first place .
the honourable member 's report will make a significant contribution to that .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the debate is closed .
welcome ladies and gentlemen , it is my great pleasure to welcome a group of municipal councillors from malaga this morning .
our visitors include the wife and daughter of jose maria martin carpena , a popular party municipal councillor in malaga , who was assassinated by eta on 15 july .
ladies , allow me to say that your presence with us here today illustrates your courage in coping with this horrendous experience , which was made all the more painful by your witnessing this heinous murder .
in all sincerity , i can do no more than offer you our deepest sympathy .
yesterday , as you know , this house paid its respects to the victims of terrorism in spain and observed a minute ' s silence in their memory .
faced with this , under the rule of law , we democrats can only unite to defend our system of freedom from the tyranny of terror and trust in judicial action .
for sixteen years i had the honour of being mayor of the city to which martin carpena dedicated his life and of presiding over the council in which he worked .
therefore , when all the social and communication institutions of europe can react with the courage of this parliament and when the fifteen different populations have the same attitude to eta ' s attacks , terrorism will be all but finished .
on behalf of the socialist group then , madam president , i would like to pay the warmest of tributes to the memory of martin carpena and also offer my best wishes to the family and colleagues of this murdered councillor .
madam president , the presence of the group of councillors from malaga and , in particular , the presence of the widow of martin carpena can help us to regain that sense of hope which eta wants to stamp out .
i believe that their presence is without doubt something which will allow us to believe that the basque people can regain its capacity for dialogue and can return to peace .
madam president , on behalf of the group of the european united left , i would also like to pay tribute to councillor martin carpena and express my admiration and gratitude to him , his family , his wife , his friends and , through them , to all the families of those people who , in the course of their duties , have lost their lives to terrorism .
i would like to say to his family and friends that his sacrifice has not been in vain and that they have been at the front line in the defence of democracy , through their bravery and courage , not only in the basque country and in spain , but also in europe .
that is why all the political groups , in unison , are today reaffirming their commitment to the defence of democracy and thanking those friends and families of people like martin carpena for the example they set .
please be assured that the sacrifice of martin carpena has not been in vain .
i therefore hope that all countries will join forces even more emphatically than in the past in order to find these paths of peace and dialogue and that nobody will try to seek political gain from such attacks .
the middle east the next item is the council and commission statements on the middle east .
this is an issue which we addressed at our informal meeting of ministers of foreign affairs in evian on saturday and sunday .
you quite rightly decided , madam president , ladies and gentlemen , to address the question of the situation in the middle east .
this decision was all the more timely given that this region , which has been the scene of a number of particularly striking events over recent months , is approaching what may prove to be an historical watershed .
i also see their , to my knowledge , unprecedented visit as a gesture of recognition of the european union ' s unceasing efforts to promote peace in the region , a recognition which is also accompanied by high expectations of europe .
i shall now endeavour to explain our analysis of recent developments and of the current state in the region and future prospects of the peace process .
we have witnessed a number of extremely important incidents in the middle east over recent months , such as the camp david summit and israel ' s withdrawal from southern lebanon .
the death of the syrian president , hafez el assad , under whom syria became an important player in the region , occurred at the same time .
the accession to power in israel of ehud barak , who was elected on a platform of peace , and yasser arafat ' s unstinting determination to keep the dialogue alive allowed the peace negotiations to resume , thereby helping to resolve the stalemate which had dogged the peace process for several years .
the second redeployment was completed on 24 march 2000 , i.e .
other provisions have not been properly implemented .
the recent camp david summit was held in response to this situation and , even though it did not achieve the hoped-for agreement , it did open new prospects on all aspects of permanent status and , as such , cannot be considered a failure .
it was in fact the first time that they had debated all aspects of permanent status without any taboos and neither hesitated in advancing and relaxing the positions of principle which they had hitherto presented as non-negotiable .
the progress achieved at camp david needs to be consolidated and final concessions are necessary , especially on the question of jerusalem , refugees and , above all , the holy places .
camp david opened up new possibilities .
the israeli prime minister , who was elected on a platform of peace , wants an agreement , and an agreement is just as much in his interests as it is in the interests of president arafat , who has stood by his decision to become involved in the oslo process .
as for the deadline of 13 september set in the sharm el-sheikh agreement for concluding permanent status negotiations , it cannot be postponed indefinitely unless the negotiations show some tangible sign of progress and the prospect of an early outcome .
if the hope raised by camp david is to be made reality , the parties must , first and foremost , continue to be involved and to demonstrate the same commitment and will as they have shown hitherto .
the european union is prepared in this context to do whatever it can to guarantee that the efforts being made will be successful .
you also noticed how just how strong expectations of europe still were .
it was this concern to affirm the role of europe and meet the parties ' expectations which prevailed when a special european union envoy was appointed back in 1996 .
ambassador moratinos - whom i greet and who has held this post for the last four years - has managed to give europe a profile in the middle east by cultivating daily contacts with all the leaders in the region .
finally , europe has developed a cooperation policy with all the countries in the middle east in a bid to create the right conditions for harmonious economic and social development and , at the same time , strengthen regional integration , which is crucial if peace is to gain a permanent foothold .
as a result , as you all know , europe has underwritten nearly half the financial commitments to international aid to palestine since 1993 .
it is , of course , and i should like to stress this point , prepared to help with the full implementation of the agreements that have been concluded when the time comes .
however , the camp david discussions give us an initial idea of what the outlines of a future agreement may be .
i should like to say in this context that , in our view , a palestinian state will inevitably emerge , but it must be a viable , peaceful and democratic state .
this right to a state and , hence , to proclaim statehood must not be subject to any veto .
however , as the european union has already stated , it would obviously prefer a palestinian state to emerge from a completed process of negotiation .
its position on this question is as stated in the berlin declaration of march 1999 .
as you may have noticed , even the palestinians are now questioning the advisability , the conditions and , most importantly , the timing of their proclamation of statehood in the light of current developments .
the exchange of views between the ministers of foreign affairs of the fifteen during the recent informal meeting in evian , which i referred to earlier confirmed that the european approach in support of the peace process hitherto is the right one .
it is vital but it alone cannot guarantee peace and stability in the middle east .
in addition , it is time , as the president of the french republic recently stressed , for syria and israel to return to the negotiating table , given that the present status quo is in the interests of neither country .
israel ' s withdrawal from southern lebanon on 24 may of this year put an end to 22 years of occupation and , as a result , ' re-dealt the cards ' , as it were .
this withdrawal , which was certified by the secretary-general of the united nations on 16 june , is a positive factor on more than one count .
so far , the difficulties have been overcome and it has been possible to implement the provisions of resolution 425 .
the question of israeli incursions along the blue line was settled after two months of wrangling .
on 27 july , the security council adopted resolution 1310 extending the unifil mandate for a further six months .
on 5 august , the lebanese government agreed for the force to be redeployed in the former occupied zone and , since then , unifil has set up a number of permanent posts in the zone and taken up its position along the israeli-lebanese border .
the redeployment of unifil and the lebanese government ' s dispatch of a mixed security force to the south are , in our view , positive developments .
the situation along the border with israel is , however , still volatile .
the lebanese government therefore needs to accept all its responsibilities here in order to create the conditions needed so that unifil can exercise its mandate in full .
the situation in southern lebanon can only be stabilised if this region , which has suffered enormously from the occupation and the war , is rehabilitated and reintegrated into lebanon ' s economic and social fabric .
the european union is of course more than ready to help reconstruct southern lebanon as soon as conditions on the ground allow .
it intends to give very precise expression to its aid to lebanon at the donors ' conference for the reconstruction of southern lebanon which is scheduled for the autumn under our presidency .
in addition , the changes taking place in the region give cause , we hope , to anticipate a gradual change in relations between syria and lebanon ; here too the situation is no less volatile and we are convinced that only an israeli-syrian agreement , in application of security council resolution 242 and the principle of land for peace , will allow fair and lasting peace to be established in the region .
we must admit that circumstances do not appear to augur well for the resumption of negotiations between israel and syria , at least not in the short term .
during his investiture address on 7 july , president bashar al-assad indicated that he was anxious to conclude an agreement with israel , reiterating that everything was negotiable except the line of 4 june 1967 .
ehud barak , for his part , called on syria to conclude what he called a ' peace of the brave ' , an expression with which we concur .
my reading is that recent developments in the region are not linked solely to developments in the peace process , even if it does play a vital part .
it comes first and foremost within the wider context of the barcelona euro-mediterranean process , which is an expression of the european union ' s wish to develop a global strategy for this region which is so close to and so inextricably bound up with us .
gentlemen , your joint presence in our house and the addresses which you will shortly give are a highly symbolic gesture .
madam president , i should like to begin by associating the commission wholeheartedly with the moving remarks that you made yesterday about terrorism and about the courage of those who have been martyred for democracy and also with the remarks made this morning by members of this house .
i should also like to say what an honour it is to discuss the question of a peace settlement in the middle east in the presence of some of those who have it in their hands to bring about this historic development .
i am sure we would all want to pay tribute to the skilful and persistent diplomacy of president clinton and secretary of state madeline albright .
it is a great pleasure to see our own representative , who has done so much to ensure that the european union 's presence in the region is felt .
the berlin european council declaration remains the position of the european union .
president arafat has received wise advice to postpone the planned declaration of an independent palestinian state on 13 september .
we have a key role to play in syria in terms of actively encouraging economic reform and modernisation in the interests of syria and in the interests of regional stability .
i had an extremely good visit to syria , albeit too brief , earlier in the year , at which we significantly moved forward our dialogue on economic issues and on the assistance we can provide .
the european union will assist with the reconstruction of southern lebanon as soon as the commission conditions permit .
the lebanese government must maintain order in the south and in addition it must translate its generic aid requests into concrete and realistic proposals .
we will outline our strategies as soon as these conditions are met and , as many members know , we have had an assessment mission in the area to see exactly what we can do on the ground as soon as possible .
it will not surprise the house to know that we intend to work in areas like mine clearance where we have so much experience , areas which are vital to the restoration of normal economic life and decent social conditions in south lebanon .
at the same time as we are preparing for a possible role in implementing any peace agreement , we are also focusing on the regional scenario after a peace settlement .
when conflict is a thing of the past , it is important to recognise that a peace settlement would transform everybody 's prospects .
sustained economic growth and economic stability are the keys to regional peace and consolidation of that peace in the years ahead .
people are more likely to support peace if they feel that their living conditions are improving .
disparities are growing both within the region and , as was said in the debate that we had yesterday on meda , between the region and the european union .
in addition , the regional labour market will come under strong pressure because of high population growth resulting from the welcome incorporation of more women into the labour market and the future integration of palestinian refugees into the economies of the region .
i referred to the interesting debate that we had yesterday evening on meda and our attempts to speed up and simplify the regulation so that we can deliver our assistance in the region much more rapidly .
the european union as a whole , the commission , member states , and the eib , are responsible for about 50 % of all the economic assistance in the region .
over the last few years our assistance in the region has been averaging about eur 800 million , that is from the commission and the eib , about eur 450 million from the commission and the rest from the eib .
that is a substantial investment in the future prosperity and well-being of the region , but i am still seeking to ensure that the resources available are spent more effectively and more rapidly .
in that document we will be stressing the vital significance of greater regional cooperation and more trade and cooperation between the countries to the south and not just between europe and the countries of the south .
i repeat : this is clearly a historic opportunity to secure a peace that would bring prosperity as well as stability to our neighbours to the south .
we stand ready to help them both to achieve peace and to build on the foundations that a peace settlement would lay .
madam president , since the creation of the state of israel , we have surely never been so close to a lasting and stable peace agreement in the middle east .
the withdrawal of the israeli troops from southern lebanon , the will demonstrated by the new syrian president and the clear progress made at camp david - as has been mentioned here this morning - seem to offer us a panorama in which peace is actually within reach .
of course we offer our services by means of the european union ' s special envoy , ambassador moratinos , whom i welcome .
we undoubtedly offer a guarantee in terms of the future economic development of the region , which would no doubt result from the peace agreement , through our cooperation and investment , as commissioner patten has correctly reminded us .
however , we should ask ourselves whether this is worthy of the responsibility and aspirations of the european union on an international level .
no group is offering greater support than the european people ' s party to the governments promoting the peace process , especially to the united states .
from this point of view we propose that next year , when we celebrate the tenth anniversary of the conference which gave rise to this peace process , the european union should once again bring together , in a repeat of the madrid meeting , the leaders who participated in that conference .
meanwhile , we should reaffirm the european union ' s full commitment to the peace process and our willingness to honour our historic , economic and also political responsibilities in the region .
i would ask the two presidents to deliver a message to their people : they have come here and they have seen how the representatives of peoples who have been age-old enemies and who have waged war for centuries , can work together and in peace , and can share values .
above all , i believe that we should point out the importance of what is at stake at the moment because , until now , there had been no real negotiation of the situation of the palestinian refugees since 1948 , the continuation of the israeli settlements and the establishment of definitive borders .
as some experts have said , on religious issues there are no half measures , but , if we are talking about the religions of the book , which preach the love of god and our fellow man , it must be possible to find a solution between people .
lastly , madam president , i believe that , from the point of view of european union action , we must try to strengthen the euro-mediterranean process , bring syria out of its isolation , strengthen the process in the whole of the region and , above all , send a message to the middle east which indicates that the european union , as a union of age-old enemies , wishes to participate fully in the creation of a shared peaceful future in the middle east .
we all very much regret that the camp david negotiations came to nothing .
as far as the european union is concerned , we hope that it will speak with one voice and assume a more pro-active role - and i particularly refer to a more pro-active role in the political field - and will thus contribute to the peace process .
madam president , i have been present in jerusalem as a provisional member of parliament ' s delegation for relations with israel .
at the same time , everyone appreciates that the un decisions cannot directly be implemented by peaceful means .
the palestinians are prepared to make concessions over territory .
it is therefore important that the eu should stick by the berlin decision to recognise a palestinian state without conditions as soon as the palestinians see fit to declare such a state , to which they are entitled .
madam president , my group asked for a major debate on the situation in the middle east to be included in this part-session .
it also suggested that high-ranking israeli and palestinian leaders be invited jointly to the european parliament .
we are therefore delighted by the initiatives taken in this direction and warmly welcome the speakers of the two assemblies who have honoured us with their presence .
i think the time is right to clearly reiterate the terms of the unequivocal declaration adopted by the berlin european council in march 1999 , in which the fifteen stated that they were ready to recognise a palestinian state .
so let the european union clearly reaffirm the position which it took in berlin and encourage the palestinians to make precisely this gesture .
i think that europe ' s third message should contain a guarantee that the future global agreement will be implemented to the end , unlike - alas - all the partial agreements which have succeeded each other since oslo .
the united states alone cannot provide this guarantee .
madam president , thank you very much indeed for arranging this very important debate at this particular time .
we should fully recognise that the palestinians and the israeli government are now negotiating on bottom line issues , including the status of jerusalem , the borders of the palestinian state , the fate of jewish settlements and the right of return of palestinian refugees .
i very much hope that the middle east will resume peace talks in the near future .
permanent status negotiations resumed in september 1999 .
eu heads of state have affirmed on a number of occasions that the security of the israeli and palestinian people both collectively and individually must always be protected .
i support the principle of exchanging land for peace and the continuing and unqualified palestinian right to self-determination .
i am calling on the israeli government and the palestinian leadership to take the necessary steps to re-establish mutual confidence , accept the need to make concessions and focus on the overriding goal of achieving lasting peace and stability in the region .
the peace talks between israel and the palestinians are not the only matter up for discussion within the middle east .
there has been peaceful progress on the lebanese-israeli border since the lebanese government gained authority within the region , and we all must certainly welcome the fact that southern lebanon is now at peace .
the first step in the current peace process was taken when israel and egypt concluded the camp david peace treaty in 1979 .
we can all take solace from the fact that the key protagonists in this difficult political equation are now addressing the most vexed and thorny bottom line issues that have to be resolved if a permanent peace agreement is to be put in place in the middle east .
in popular speech , arafat has inherited this dubious arab title of honour from saddam hussein .
it is exactly this palestinian homage after camp david 2000 which shocked amos oz , a recognised israeli champion of peace and noted author .
earlier this week , arafat reiterated this palestinian political claim in the context of the meeting of the arab league in cairo : " we will not accept an agreement without obtaining all the rights we are entitled to pursuant to international resolutions " .
so this includes un resolution 194 which stipulates the right to return on the part of palestinian refugees .
madam president , as a representative of a christian political party , i am not an unquestioning defender of israel ' s political interests .
madam president , europe has a special historical responsibility for the peace process in the middle east .
the fact that the foreign minister himself responded to the last peace negotiations by stepping down , serves as a reminder to us that above all in israel , which is the stable democracy in the region , every step taken by the politicians must have the backing of the majority of the israeli people .
madam president , mr president-in-office , commissioner , this is not the first time that the house has concluded that the situation in the middle east is critical .
it is critical both for the middle east itself and for the european union because , apart from all the important issues which the peace process encompasses , it represents a new challenge for the common european foreign policy .
in other words , the european union must play a more active , more systematic and more intensive role in projects in the region and , of course , in the peace process .
let us not forget that the highly important un resolution 242 was devised mainly by europe .
mr president , will the united nations millennium summit which took place this week be the last chance summit ?
six weeks after talks broke down at camp david , bill clinton is due to meet ehud barak and yasser arafat in new york tomorrow , after a month of intensive , albeit less media-attracting negotiation .
everyone has his or her own interpretation of the outcome of camp david and of the responsibilities incumbent upon either side .
the gulf is still wide , although certain historical taboos have been broken .
it is our historical and moral duty as well as our desire to become a full political partner very quickly , tomorrow if possible , and the simultaneous presence here of avraham burg , the speaker of the knesset , and ahmed qurie , the speaker of the palestinian legislative council , both of whom i welcome , cannot but augur well in this respect .
mr president , i arrived back yesterday from palestine and israel , where over a thousand italians - representatives of district , provincial and regional councils - have been spending a week building peace bridges between palestinians and israelis and setting up projects for cooperation with the palestinian people .
jerusalem is at the centre of the conflict , and it is one of the key factors in the peace process .
for the israelis , before camp david , no part of jerusalem could be touched .
yet the israeli negotiators are still extremely uncompromising , for the problem is not that the palestinians do not want to make concessions but that they have the right to the return of the territories occupied in 1967 which is enshrined in the un resolutions .
as commissioner patten said , the israeli government has many times failed in its obligations following the oslo negotiations : they have not adhered to the timetable laid down in the agreements for the withdrawal of troops from the occupied territories .
however , a genuine tragedy for the peace process and the future of the palestinian state is the continued increase in israeli settlements : under the barak government , over 41 000 settlers moved into in the occupied territories .
it is on everyone 's lips , but peace can only be achieved if each person is allowed to exercise his right of citizenship in his own free state .
as europeans , we must make every possible endeavour - over and above the economic efforts which we are already making , we must increase our political role - to ensure that the law prevails and that the palestinians are able to live in their democratic state , which we must recognise as we recognise the israeli state , so that jerusalem becomes an open city , a city of the world , the capital city of two peoples and two states .
as for weapons of mass destruction , i agree that somebody like saddam hussein should not have control of them , but there are others in the region who should not either .
the market in weapons is now so competitive that some of the most horrific despots are getting bargain basement deals for weapons of mass destruction .
they believe that the oslo negotiations and the various camp david discussions would have conferred legitimacy on such a step .
it is a unique problem which requires a unique response .
jerusalem should not be regarded as an arab city or a jewish city , a christian city or a muslim city .
just as we were delighted to remove berlin walls in europe , we do not want to see similar walls erected in jerusalem .
mr president , as far as the middle east and the israeli-palestinian peace process is concerned , i have always counted myself among those in the house who say that it is up to the people of the region and their leaders to define the terms of their peaceful coexistence , just as it is up to them to make the efforts and sacrifices needed on both sides in order to do so .
as a european , i set great store by the euro-mediterranean balance and if , like many others , i have somewhat regretted the european union ' s lack of political clout in this process , i have likewise always refused to sit here in parliament and play at being teacher , to coin a phrase .
that is why i am in total agreement with the position stated by pierre moscovici and what i would say today is that we shall not help to bring about peace by taking sides in the debate and in the difficult negotiations under way .
it can be summarised in three points : we want a peace agreement in the middle east , we shall support and guarantee a peace agreement once it has been signed and we shall use every possible means , including but not only financial means , to help ensure that it is implemented .
to conclude , we know full well that peace is always a difficult process .
however , we feel - and here we agree with the report - that this peace agreement which is being drawn up has increased the possibilities and that there is a way forward .
we feel that everything that can be possibly be done now and in the future , including in terms of equal opportunities , must be done and followed up : the palestinian people has the right to self-determination , without prejudice to the rights of the state of israel .
europe must become a political body and negotiate to achieve peace in this case as well , doing everything in its power to ensure that lasting peace is established in the mediterranean .
i will illustrate the importance of this with a historical reference : in the 1980 venice declaration , proposed by ministers genscher and colombo , the community first of all established the need for a solution to be found to the palestinian question through negotiations .
following his visit to rome in 1982 for the conference of the interparliamentary union , things at last started to move and not only did arafat obtain his visa but - following the preparatory work carried out in oslo - the united states started to play an active part in the palestinian question .
by an international statute i do not mean that the city would have an international administration , but merely that , as an international community , we must direct this initiative so that the statutory instrument - irrespective of who has territorial sovereignty over jerusalem - commits all parties to a system of international control , so that every believer - whether christian , jew or muslim - is , at last , guaranteed access to the holy sites .
mr president , arabs and palestinians have committed terrible historical errors and injustices , but they have also paid the price for them .
you have all naturally focused in your interventions on the peace process and the negotiations , which are without doubt the key to progress in this region of the middle east .
and so , i repeat , we have an historic opportunity to put an end to this conflict which has lasted so very long .
having said which , every historic opportunity has its historic risk .
president mubarak was in paris at the end of last week and i think he used an excellent phrase which sums up the situation perfectly : ' peace is now or never ' .
we can always wish for a more active europe .
the european union intervenes in support of the negotiations .
secondly , the european union makes a contribution to the debate on issues connected with the negotiations .
there is all the action which commissioner patten summarised .
there is also the barcelona process , which offers us a particularly suitable framework , provided that we make full use of its potential .
we sincerely hope , however , that developments in the peace process will make it possible to hold a meeting not just at ministerial level , but also at head of state and government level in order to set the seal , as it were , on the emergence of a new era in the middle east .
our democratic values , our common will to foster peace and security in the world and our history guide us towards such a role .
the community ' s economic clout , its primary role in promoting development , and its privileged links with numerous countries or groups of countries also allow us to take on such a role .
the french presidency ' s first objective is to give new momentum to the accession negotiations .
the prospect of enlargement is the basic question which we europeans have to answer , the huge challenge which faces us over coming years .
that is why the french presidency is determined to ensure that the igc is a success and conclude ' a nice treaty in nice ' , in order to prevent any delays to enlargement and ensure that we can welcome the first candidate countries to a union with more efficient institutions .
all in all , our objective , in close consultation with the commission and commissioner verheugen , is to arrive in nice at an overall vision of the state of negotiations , thereby efficiently guiding the work of the following presidencies and preparing the way for the completion of negotiations .
the various reports currently being examined in our committees and the debate on enlargement planned for october will give us further food for thought .
hence the main deadlines during our presidency will be as follows : a ministerial negotiating session will be held with each of the 12 candidates either on 21 november , for some of the candidates , or on 5 december , preceded by two meetings at ambassadorial level in the autumn .
as far as the fifteen are concerned , we shall be organising a politically-orientated debate at the general affairs council on 20 november on the basis of the overall report and the individual progress reports on each candidate country which the commission is due to submit to the council at the beginning of november .
finally , we shall be convening the european conference twice , once in sochaux on 23 november for the ministers of european affairs of the fifteen and ministers from the candidate countries , and once in nice on 7 december for the heads of state and government , at the opening of the biarritz summit .
the union indicated in helsinki that it would be ready to welcome the first new members on 1 january 2003 , as soon as the procedure for ratifying what we hope will be the future nice treaty has been completed but , as the heads of state and government stressed at the feira summit , the countries in question must not only transpose the community acquis , but more important still , they must be able to implement and really apply it .
this is naturally a very complicated and , as we well know , a difficult task for the candidate countries , but the community is already helping by supporting the efforts of each country .
these efforts are vital in order to complete the enlargement process under way in a serious and controlled manner and thus enable the most advanced countries to accede as quickly as possible .
as far as turkey is concerned , i would just like to say briefly that recognition of its candidate status in helsinki marked an important step which my country , france , supported .
the presidency will work in the council to have the accession partnership for this country adopted and will continue to conduct a detailed analysis of the acquis .
it will also ensure that the union honours its financial aid commitments with a view to setting up a single framework covering all aid instruments to turkey .
it goes without saying , however , that accession negotiations will be quite out of the question until such time as turkey complies with the copenhagen criteria , especially the democratic criteria , although any progress in this direction will of course encourage us to adopt the measures which i have just mentioned .
the french presidency ' s second objective is to push ahead with the european common security and defence policy by implementing the decisions taken in helsinki and feira .
the union now has the instruments which it needs in order to apply a common foreign policy .
our objective , which the crises in bosnia and , more recently , in kosovo have taught us , is to provide a global response to the manifold and extraordinarily complex dimensions of today ' s crises : not just ethnic crises , but also sociological , administrative , judicial , security-related and military crises .
in other words , the french presidency hopes to take part in an extremely ambitious project which will of necessity take several years to complete .
the three main issues are as follows : as regards countries ' abilities to meet the objectives , the commitment conference which we shall be holding on 20 november will give each member state the chance to state how it intends to help achieve the overall objective defined in helsinki ; as regards the permanent political and military institutions , our presidency has to prepare for the transition to the final , operational stage which will allow the union to manage a crisis in all its dimensions as quickly as possible .
finally , we need to implement the feira decisions on relations with nato and with third counties in connection with military crisis management and the continuing work to strengthen civil crisis management instruments .
the french presidency ' s third priority will be to develop strategic partnerships between the union and its neighbours and the main regional blocs .
as a sign of the importance which the union attaches to developing relations with the balkans region , which we wish to see enjoying peace and democracy , france has proposed that croatia host a summit on 24 november with the countries of the former yugoslavia which , although at varying stages , have made the most progress with their democratic development .
developing the strategic partnership with russia and the ukraine is another priority of the french presidency , which is due to host the eu / ukraine summit in paris in 10 days ' time and the eu / russia summit on 30 october .
the framework for action by the french presidency of the union vis-a-vis russia is defined by the conclusions adopted by the feira european council , which offered to support the efforts being made by president putin and the new russian government to modernise and reform russia .
the council reiterated in july that only a political solution would bring about a lasting settlement of this conflict .
finally , despite the uncertainty hanging over the future of the peace process in the middle east , which we have just debated , developing our euro-mediterranean relations is one of the french presidency ' s main concerns .
we hope to take general stock of the barcelona process and assess cooperation under the meda programme during the ministerial meeting in marseilles on 16 november and , if circumstances allow , at the summit which may then be organised for the following day in order to define guidelines to give new impetus to euro-mediterranean cooperation .
during this meeting , as far as the peace process is concerned , the european union should play a major role in supporting the two sides and the agreements which they conclude .
finally , the presidency is keen to implement the common strategy on the mediterranean adopted in feira and ensure that the new meda regulation is adopted .
as far as the association agreements are concerned , let me repeat that it hopes to sign the agreement with egypt and achieve substantial progress in negotiations with lebanon , syria and algeria .
beyond its immediate environment , the french presidency will ensure that it develops political dialogue with the main regional blocs .
a summit will be held in seoul on 20 and 21 october and we also hope to resume the dialogue between the eu and asean .
history will record two important summits with key countries in the region during the french presidency .
the summit with japan on 19 july decided to start revising the 1991 declaration and preparing an action plan for adoption at the summit in 2001 .
the other summit , with china , will be held in beijing on 23 october .
france has also suggested that its partners consider the future of relations with cuba .
the union - as i have said - has numerous instruments at its disposal which allow it to influence developments in international relations .
thus , its diplomatic presence in the world , both that of the fifteen and of the commission , is unique both in terms of staff numbers and geographical coverage .
similarly , the union now constitutes an active and coherent group in the united nations , where its points of view are represented in every forum .
finally , its financial resources , our financial resources , are considerable .
however , we all know the weaknesses in the union ' s external action : lack of visibility , inadequate coordination on occasions , flexibility which leaves much to be desired , too little influence in international institutions , especially bretton woods .
the ministers of foreign affairs of the fifteen therefore opened a debate at the instigation of hubert vedrine during the recent informal meeting at evian , based on the excellent work presented by mr patten on behalf of the commission and by the secretary-general of the council to the high representative for the cfsp , javier solana , who was also present in evian .
at central level , this must be done by reaffirming the coordinating role of the general affairs council in order to improve the coherence of external action in all its aspects .
we intend to cooperate in this and many other areas with both the commission , which will be the main driving force in this area , as it is in every other area , and with the european parliament .
i want to congratulate the french presidency without reservation on the priority that they have given to this extremely important practical issue .
just before the summer break , as some members may have read in the newspapers , we discussed in the commission the demands , the constraints and priorities of the european union 's external relations , our understanding of what should be the commission 's external role and some of the problems we encounter in performing it .
one of the five objectives of the european union , as set out in article 2 of the treaty , is that it should assert its identity on the international scene .
it reflects first of all the european union 's political interests , including a growing role in the area of security , which the president-in-office referred to in his interesting remarks .
it reflects our responsibilities for external assistance which have grown exponentially in recent years .
the european union and its member states now provide 55 % of total international aid and two thirds of global non-refundable aid .
it is worth remembering that less than 20 years ago relations with greece , spain and portugal were external affairs for the european community as it then was .
our prime task in the european union 's external relations is surely the projection of stability , both in our immediate neighbourhood and beyond .
a more stable neighbourhood and a more stable world guarantee a more stable european union .
the skills that the european union has brought to its own development are skills which offer an example and a model elsewhere in the world .
foreign policy is and will remain fundamentally a matter for national governments , in other words for member states .
that is why the union chose to move on from political cooperation , why the treaty of amsterdam created the new high representative for cfsp and why there is an important role for the commission and for the european parliament in trying to make a common - i stress common not single - foreign and security policy more effective .
the new structures , procedures and instruments of cfsp recognise the need to harness the strengths of the european community in the service of european foreign policy .
it would be absurd to divorce european foreign policy from the institutions which have been given responsibility for most of the instruments for its accomplishment , for external trade , external assistance , many of the external aspects of justice and home affairs and so on .
that is why the commission participates fully in the decision-making process in the council , that is why we have a shared right of initiative - not a sole but a shared right of initiative - in these issues .
there needs to be a sensible and sensitive partnership in the external field between the institutions of the union , including the european parliament , and its member states .
we should be engaged in a common effort to make sure that world 's largest trading group also makes its presence felt politically .
it is very easy in the external field , perhaps more than any other , to make grandiloquent statements about great issues such as peace in the middle east , a stable and productive relationship with russia , international development .
apart from the detailed foreign policy issues on our agenda like the situation in the middle east , we were looking at how we decide our overall annual priorities in external relations and how we apportion the budget .
as i said before , when i made a presentation to the council on the budget and on our priorities in may it was the first time this had ever happened .
earlier this year , as well as that presentation to foreign ministers , i hope that i gave the european parliament exactly the same candid presentation on our external relations budget .
that is important in the council and it is important in the parliament because you are the budgetary authority .
we cannot spend more than you allow us to but in that case you should not ask us to do more than is possible and criticise us when we have to make judgments about priorities .
thirdly , i am working with javier solana to create sensible structures and the right division of responsibilities between the commission and the high representative for the cfsp .
the institutional relationship between the commission and the high representative is evolving , as is the precise role of the european parliament in the cfsp .
one example is conflict prevention , which may involve issues that are not part of the normal diplomatic agenda .
in the discussions we had in the g8 foreign ministers ' meetings i was struck by the extent to which the foreign and security policy agenda is changing and bringing together disparate issues in which the community has almost unique competence , for example in the environmental field .
there was a lot of discussion about better coordination , better coordination between member states and all the institutions of the european union , which i know is a serious priority of the french presidency and one which i totally share .
we must ensure - and mr patten has the right approach in proposing the reorganisation of external assistance - that we strengthen the power to act of our community bodies , and that we improve the way in which work is carried out there and make it more effective .
on the other hand though , we must also guarantee the same level of transparency and control that the public expects from national governments and national parliaments .
there was a formal delegation which i chaired from parliament to the usa in june and there is an understandable confusion when another group of meps some three weeks later arrive in the usa , to all intents and purposes also a european parliament delegation .
we were merely visiting the united states as a group organised from within our own national groups .
we represented the views of our national parties over there as well as the views expressed within the european parliament .
i am very sorry , mrs read , but i cannot allow you to speak again , as we are already running late .
but we need more if we want to give our mediterranean policy a new lease of life : we need to involve the people more by supporting decentralised cooperation , we need to improve the way in which the cultural and human dimensions are integrated , open the free trade zone to agricultural produce and monitor and support fundamental freedoms .
i fully support the rapporteur ' s proposal that an annual report be drafted on human rights in the mediterranean countries .
it is also established ( in paragraph o ) that the purpose is not to create a single diplomatic service for the eu to replace the foreign services of the member states .
this draft initiative , however , forms part of a creeping and continuing change in the nature of the european union .
in the 1950s , the existence of the forerunners of the european union was justified in terms of voluntary cooperation between european states and peoples in order to regulate a number of cross-border issues of mutual interest .
my party , the socialist party in the netherlands , considers the return of such a superstate as a threat to democracy , public services , peace and refugees .
i am voting against this new step in the wrong direction .
the common instrument is supposed to produce the common conscience , the common will , the common responsibility .
it is the complementarity of this individual expertise which can be used for a clearly-defined common objective which really serves european interests .
in fact , we are eroding national will , despite the fact that it is the diplomatic driving force behind europe and , at the same time , we express surprise when the increasing number of instruments and declarations is reflected merely by an absence of content and a general lack of interest .
the only positive aspect of this report might be its desire to rationalise the organisation and improve the professionalism of the european commission delegations in third countries .
experience has shown that these delegations are not always up to their real job , which is to implement community programmes and agreements and monitor them on the ground .
this last point apart , you will understand that we obviously did not vote in favour of the other , totally surrealist proposals in this initiative report .
i cannot therefore vote in favour of mr galeote quecedo ' s report .
moreover , i would call upon the commission to increase its expenditure , for it is extremely important for europe to maintain a presence in the world and to give a high profile to its presence through , among other things , a symbol and greater publicity of this important activity .
mr president , a single example , taken from the explanatory statement , illustrates just how laughable the report on the humanitarian activities of the european union is .
the report cites the absence of operational tools , especially helicopters , as the reason for the lack of international aid in general and the lack of aid from the european institutions in particular , in dealing with the floods in mozambique , whereas - and who could forget ? - there was no lack of helicopters , aeroplanes , every type of transportation equipment and even means of destruction when it came to intervening in yugoslavia or iraq .
the only conclusion to be drawn from this is that the major powers , which are capable of mobilising huge resources in order to impose their hegemony on the rest of the world , are not prepared to make the slightest effort when it comes to saving human lives .
this report is fully in keeping with the philosophy of our institution , which has always made its voice heard in the least well off countries , through its opinions , its resolutions or specific action to improve and develop humanitarian aid .
since the european community humanitarian office ( echo ) was created at the beginning of the 1990s , europe has taken its place as the biggest donor in the world .
however , despite legitimate efforts driven by historical links between certain european countries and developing countries , we are forced to admit that poverty is increasing throughout the world .
without the emergency aid provided by echo in order to deal with the natural disasters or serious crises which regularly hit the most vulnerable people on our planet , i hardly dare imagine the situation which we would have to deal with today .
in it , she voices her belief that it would have come to riots in austria had the 14 eu states not imposed sanctions against austria .
i think that you will understand that confusion may well arise when another group of meps arrives in the usa some three weeks later as , to all intents and purposes , a second european parliament delegation .
could you also ascertain whether the members concerned had a formal invitation from relevant bodies in the usa and intend to declare their visit in the members ' register of interests ?
mr gorostiaga , if you feel that you have been misquoted , you have hereby been given the opportunity to report this .
mr poettering , parliament is sovereign .
eu external action priorities ( continuation ) the next item is the continuation of the debate on the declarations of the council and the commission on eu external action priorities .
the socialist group has a need to recognise for itself that europe ' s position on the world stage has undergone a dramatic change since the fall of the berlin wall , when traditionally , foreign policy was adopted by national states which continue to play a major role , of course .
in this respect , it is essential to regard the fight against poverty as a key contribution in our policy , rather than according it a minor position within foreign policy .
mr patten , mr nielson , ladies and gentlemen , and the commissioner for external relations , you could , in fact , extract new value , new quality and effectiveness from this , working in tandem with parliament .
mr president , i welcome the resolve that was shown here today by the french presidency and the commission in placing emphasis on enlargement as the key priority for the external action of the union .
the commission is right to demand its right of association under the treaty and , through that , for this parliament to demand its right of accountability and scrutiny .
let me recall one of the results of these inquiries : in the past five years the average delay in the disbursement of committed funds has increased from three years to four-and-a-half years .
for certain programmes the backlog of outstanding commitments is equivalent to more than eight-and-a-half years of payments .
it amounts to a form of intergovernmental conspiracy against citizens ' right to know .
i want to hear from the council today what role it feels it is prepared to accord to this house in terms of the scrutiny and accountability of issues which may be intergovernmental but which cannot stand on one pillar alone ?
mr president , as the european union assumes new powers we might expect that transparency in this matter and parliamentarian monitoring would increase at the same rate .
the commission must have a strong role to play in this process .
but the council ' s decision seems to be leading to a situation now where the whole development of the security and defence policy in the political sphere can no longer be properly monitored , being , as it were , beyond that .
nevertheless , i think that , because of the expectations that are created , because of the european union ' s responsibilities and even because of the new problems facing developing countries , for all these reasons , taking account of these very important parts of the world must be a major factor in determining our actions .
in politics , we never use the word " never " .
i should like quickly to ask the president-in-office two questions .
what would be the point of having more than 40 000 officials in more than 1 500 diplomatic missions between the commission and the member states - twice the number the united states has - if our activity really is not sufficiently efficient , coherent or visible ?
mr moscovici , in the coming months we will have to make important decisions in the field of the nascent , embryonic defence policy .
the incompatibility and heterogeneity of the member states ' investments in this field - the national views - make this such a difficult debate that we will have to consider other added problems such as interinstitutional disputes .
this dispute between the institutions must be resolved , and the european parliament must not simply be serving at the table , but it also wishes to take its place in the kitchen .
in general we favour a strong european union presence on the international scene .
but in this short speech , i want to focus on enlargement .
having said that , we are conscious of the problems due to public opinion both within the fifteen member states and in the candidate countries .
the european parliament will play an important part in this .
commissioner patten , the vice-president of the commission , reacted to this in his own way and remarked that the european union is in fact extremely resourceful .
european responsibilities can certainly not be divided among fifteen to thirty or perhaps more member states .
this is not about a simple bureaucratic division of powers between institutions or a power-crazed parliament or such like .
my own experience when , in a responsible post within the un ' s development programme , i sought cooperation with the union at national level with a view to assembling and coordinating forces in different areas was that , as a rule , it did not work , either because almost every decision in the eu ' s case needed to be taken in brussels and also because of the lack of qualified staff within the area concerned .
working towards constitutionalisation of the european union , one benefit of which would be institutional citizenship in international bodies , the creation of a european diplomacy as per the galeote report , the cultural concern which we must take on board in order to avoid fresh incidents of colonialism , the support and valuing of democratic processes which have also been established in certain countries such as iran , and the regulation of relations with ngos , which could become the operational arm of the european union - these options could all contribute to an effective political initiative for developing countries , an initiative which would assert the supremacy of european civilisation in terms of a quest for solidarity to improve quality of life and bear witness to respect for human dignity , celebrating it in every corner of the world .
mr president-in-office , this morning you mentioned the report parliament has asked me to present on turkey ' s accession process .
like the commission , parliament salutes turkey ' s endeavours in drawing up a programme for developing its legal arsenal to comply more closely with the requirements of the european union , especially in terms of respect for human rights .
europe is resolute in recognising that need for identity , aware that its diversity is the source of its wealth .
that is the spirit in which the union proposes to help turkey find a solution to the kurdish problem .
i am also concerned by the extent to which many want to define european foreign policy in terms of its distinctiveness from the united states policies , sometimes even deliberate hostility to the united states positions .
the best forum for dealing with security policy issues is nato rather than the european union and the danger is that the common european security and defence policy , with its emphasis on an autonomous capability , will undermine the alliance which served us so well during more threatening times .
mr president , some of us have asked the president-in-office and commissioner patten specific questions .
financial year 2001 the next item is the submission by the council of the draft budget for the financial year 2001 .
as you know , my colleague florence parly chaired that council , but unfortunately she cannot be here today , so please accept her apologies .
first of all , i would like to pay tribute to the excellent work done by the portuguese presidency ahead of the council ' s adoption , at first reading , of the draft budget for 2001 .
this year , the provisions of the new interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 have taken full effect .
the first session under the trialogue procedure bringing together the european parliament , the council and the commission was held on 6 july , here in strasbourg , and demonstrated its usefulness in terms of better mutual understanding of our respective positions and priorities .
the conciliation meeting between the european parliament and the council , which took place on 20 july , was , i think , very positive .
in particular , it became possible to find a great many points of agreement between institutions and make good progress on potential sources of disagreement .
i hope we can continue to work in the same spirit and produce a budget for the european communities for the financial year 2001 which gives us the resources to meet the priorities and challenges the european union is about to face .
firstly , i want to set out the major guidelines which have determined the way the council has drawn up this draft budget before going into more detail - though not at length - on the various categories .
the council has also paid special attention to the development of payment appropriations , setting their increase compared with 2000 at a maximum rate of 3.5 % , which in particular takes account of the capacity for implementation and the probable rate of payments entailed by the balances to be settled .
finally , this draft budget remains totally in keeping with the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure .
those are the bases for the draft budget for the financial year 2001 , drawn up by the council on 20 july , to provide for eur 95.9 billion in commitment appropriations , an increase of 2.7 % over the budget for 2000 , and eur 92.5 billion in payment appropriations , an increase of 3.5 % over the budget for 2000 .
the council hopes to convert this priority into figures with a total appropriation 30 % higher than in 2000 .
the eur 614 million adopted by the council will ensure funding of all foreseeable needs .
i would add - and of course this is important in our discussions - that it has been possible to earmark such a significant amount without having to revise the financial perspectives aimed at strengthening category 4 , as proposed by the commission .
the council has also ensured the funding of all the european union ' s other policy priorities .
without launching into an exhaustive description of the council ' s draft budget , which is in any case the subject of the detailed explanatory statement circulated to you , i would now like to present the council ' s 2001 draft budget decisions in a rather more specific way , that is , by category of expenditure .
first , as regards category 1 of the financial perspectives relating to agricultural expenditure , the draft budget provides for an increase in commitment appropriations of 6.3 % in relation to 2000 in order to fund the cap reform agreed by the european council in berlin in march 1999 .
nevertheless , for sub-category 1a of the financial perspectives , covering cap market expenditure , the council decided on figures some eur 330 million lower in total than those proposed by the commission in its preliminary draft .
the savings made , in comparison with the commission ' s preliminary draft budget , do not prevent the council providing for an increase , which also responds to parliament ' s concerns , in two budgetary lines : for the distribution of milk to schoolchildren , which i know has been the subject of massive correspondence for more than a year now , and promotion of product quality .
for expenditure related to rural development , taking account of the delays which have built up in the approval and implementation of national rural development plans , the council felt that a margin of eur 225 million , under the ceiling of sub-category 1b of the financial perspectives , could be earmarked .
the development of these appropriations , however , shows an increase of 4.6 % compared with 2000 , an increase which reflects the priority the council accords the appropriations allocated to what now constitutes a second pillar of the cap .
however , i want to specify that the council is , of course , prepared to re-examine agricultural expenditure this autumn in the light of the content of the letter of amendment the commission will be presenting and to reconsider , at that time , developments in market and rural development expenditure .
as regards structural actions , covered by category 2 of the financial perspectives , the council has budgeted this whole category as commitment appropriations in line with the conclusions of the berlin european council of march 1999 and , in addition , it has renewed all the payment appropriations entered in 2000 .
but it hoped to increase the cohesion fund allocations by some eur 360 million over provision in the commission ' s preliminary draft , to take account of the forecasts for implementation of these credits in the member states .
on category 3 of the financial perspectives relating to the funding of internal policies , the council was primarily intent on ensuring the appropriate funding for the multiannual programmes while respecting , where applicable , the programming decided jointly with parliament .
as regards the extension of the ' employment ' initiative , agreed by parliament to strengthen the employment dynamic begun by the amsterdam european council , the conciliation meeting between the european parliament and the council held on 20 july demonstrated that this subject represents a priority for both our institutions for the 2001 budget , especially in terms of building on the conclusions of the feira european council .
however , the council is waiting for the assessment of the previous initiative soon to be delivered by the commission with a view to seeking agreement with parliament about its funding in the context of a global agreement during the second reading .
furthermore , it has identified a precautionary margin of eur 208 million more than the one in the commission ' s preliminary draft budget , the objective being to have enough room for manoeuvre over and above a necessary margin under the ceiling of category 3 to deal with the new priorities shared by the council and by parliament , such as the ' employment ' initiative i mentioned earlier .
i now come to the financing of the european union external actions covered by category 4 of the financial perspectives .
the eur 614 million adopted by the council will be enough to finance all the foreseeable needs .
this figure is based on the only evaluation of needs currently available , set out in the 1999 world bank report on rebuilding kosovo .
wishing to be pragmatic , the council is renewing but not increasing the appropriations intended for serbia , as it is not yet eligible for community assistance beyond the aid for democracy and civil society included in this envelope .
on the other hand , the council has kept to the commission ' s preliminary draft for the vast majority of the other cooperation programmes .
however i want to emphasise , as regards the meda programme , that the draft budget provides for an amount of eur 701 million which is higher than the annual average allocation over the period 1995-1999 .
the reduction of eur 150 million made by the council in comparison with what the commission is asking for , takes account of the stock of still unpaid commitments still on this programme , and that represents several years of implementation .
i take this opportunity to remind you of the council ' s determination to contribute to better management of the programme , an indispensable prior condition , in our view , to enhancing our efforts .
despite this reduction - motivated by the need to reabsorb the outstanding balance - the meda programme naturally remains very important to the council .
the french presidency ' s objective is to achieve the adoption of the new multiannual regulation for meda soon and it will in particular be listening to the european parliament on this subject .
however we have not followed up the commission ' s proposal for a revision of the financial perspectives , transferring these appropriations to category 7 , and we have kept them in category 4 .
finally , i want to express my satisfaction that agreement was reached at the conciliation meeting between the european parliament and the council on 20 july on the amount of the appropriations to be included for the cfsp , as well as the transfer of the administrative expenses for cfsp special representatives , to the council ' s budget , in accordance with the institutional agreement of 1999 .
this agreement has given rise to the drafting of two joint declarations , one of which specifies that the sums included in the council ' s budget under the heading of cfsp administrative expenses should take account of their impact on the general position for category 5 , while the other commits the council to ensuring that the estimates for administrative costs anticipated for each new cfsp decision are transmitted in good time to the other branch of the budgetary authority .
as you can appreciate , the council has therefore tried to fund the various priorities in the field of european union external actions appropriately and in doing so it has earmarked a margin of eur 184 million under the ceiling of category 4 of the financial perspectives .
in drawing up its draft budget for the administrative expenditure covered by category 5 of the financial perspectives , the council has been concerned to stabilise current expenditure , while taking account of the exceptional needs of the institutions , especially as regards staff for the anti-fraud office and the court of justice .
the council is ready to do whatever is necessary to examine this letter of amendment so that its incidence can be taken into account as from first reading by the european parliament .
to that end , there is a margin of eur 113 million under the ceiling of category 5 of the financial perspectives .
for payment appropriations , the council has adjusted the commission ' s preliminary draft budget figure downward by eur 300 million .
in line with the logic prevailing for the other categories , the council has taken maximum account of the substantial underspend of these appropriations in 2000 .
despite this reduction compared with the commission ' s preliminary draft , the pre-accession payment appropriations recorded a strong increase of 10.8 % compared with 2000 , which again reflects the importance accorded this expenditure as absolutely vital to the proper preparation of our major political aim , the enlargement , a priority shared by the council , the european parliament and the commission .
before i end , i would like to take this opportunity to say how pleased i am about the agreement reached , at the conciliation meeting between the european parliament and the council on 20 july , on a statement on financial programming .
under the terms of this joint declaration , the commission will now be obliged to evaluate the financial consequences of each of its new proposals , in particular for categories 3 and 4 of the financial perspectives .
i am sure that will be a fundamental factor in clarifying the decisions of the budgetary authority .
in any case i hope it gives you a good foundation for starting your work on the budget and that it will contribute to the establishment of a budget for 2001 which respects the priorities of each of the institutions , one which is satisfactory in terms of our joint mission , fulfilling our responsibilities towards europe and its peoples .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , ladies and gentlemen , you will shortly be adopting two regulations that are highly significant in budgetary terms , one being the regulation on budgetary discipline in the agricultural sector , and the other being the regulation on own resources , that is to say , the financing of the budget .
however , the commission takes a dim view of the outcome of the council ' s discussions on budget 2001 .
indeed , all the appropriations for kosovo have in fact been tied up already .
we find ourselves in a situation where we are competing in political terms with the dictator milosevic , and we must convince the people that the european union is willing to provide assistance .
another word on foreign policy : the budget council has cut the funding for the mediterranean programme - which is also something you mentioned - by eur 150 million .
putting these cuts into effect would no longer just be a budgetary policy measure though , it would also constitute a change in the foreign policy in this field , a renunciation of the barcelona process .
we have now submitted a letter of amendment containing two key points : firstly a request for 400 new posts for the commission with effect from the year 2001 , and secondly , budgetary measures which will enable us to do without the vast majority of technical assistance offices , as per parliament ' s request , and , in particular , that of the committee on budgets .
the commission has estimated that we need 1254 new posts for key activities and political priorities .
we can create a vast number of these 1254 new posts through reallocation , which will mean requesting a total of 717 new posts - 400 in the year 2001 and 317 in the year 2002 - particularly if we are to strengthen the areas of external assistance , health and consumer protection and environmental policy , as well as justice and internal affairs .
in addition , we have proposed a one-off early retirement scheme for 600 posts , organised in such a way as to have no impact on the budget , which would drastically reduce the need for new posts .
mr president , can i first of all thank the president-in-office for his opening remarks and especially his remarks about the good working relationship that we have had between the parliament and the council .
i thank the french presidency and the staff of the french permanent representation in brussels .
the downside starts with the things i said before we had the conciliation , during the conciliation and now after council has voted and produced its draft budget .
as far as we are concerned , the interinstitutional agreement and article 20 stipulate that once the commission had made that proposal , our two institutions were duty bound to actually discuss that proposal .
i will reiterate another thing i said : parliament is not a bit part player in this process , it has a valid role to play .
the biggest disappointment was on category 4 and especially the western balkans .
parliament has sent a special delegation to kosovo to look at its needs .
yet the council comes up with a figure of eur 614 million and if we look at the explanatory memorandum from the council that is the figure in the light of the international financial institutions ' estimates .
we have a situation where foreign ministers are saying one thing and finance ministers are saying another thing and that does not help anyone .
the ideal position for the council is to have no payments whatsoever , but you have some obligations in this matter .
the disabled games are held a month after the normal olympics , which means that they will take place in athens sometime in october or november 2004 .
whilst we have been awaiting the amending letter from the commission on its staffing needs , we see that the council has reduced the commission 's administrative expenditure by eur 25 million .
that is on top of the eur 14 million announced by the commission after publication of the pdb .
so our two institutions need to sit down and talk this through .
we need to agree on a real assessment of the commission 's needs .
if we want the commission to do the job which we are always asking it to do , then at least in the three institutions we need to be clear about what we are asking it to do and what staffing levels are required .
as to what is next , we in parliament need to make some hard decisions , not least on the letter of amendment and especially category iv .
what is contained within the notenboom procedure could actually relieve our plight next year .
if you can front-load the areas of concern this year and we can carry over into next year or at least use this year , which will lighten the burden for next year , then a lot of our problems can be eased .
i have a few comments to make on the council ' s first reading in this respect , which i have already submitted to the committee on budgets in the form of a discussion paper .
turning now to the european court of auditors .
for reasons that are beyond me , the council has cut the funding for 2001 from eur 7 million to eur 5 million .
my guiding principle for the budgetary procedure for 2001 can be summed up by the following new high german expression : value for money .
the same applies to the committee of the regions .
here too it is my goal , under the ' value for money ' maxim , to promote the overall productivity of the committee through a variety of measures .
the committee has asked for an increase in the funding required to cover the travel and subsistence costs incurred by regional representatives of candidate countries attending plenary sittings as observers .
at the same time , however , the committee of the regions has declared that it has need of more funds for the year 2001 .
to sum up : overall , we are being very sparing with the european tax payer ' s money in performing our role as part of the budgetary authority .
mr president-in-office of the council , mr president , commissioner , honourable members , as the last person to speak on this agenda item , all i can do of course is make a few points and reiterate a few things that have already been said .
but as you are all yourselves aware , repetition is the only way to learn .
i shall therefore deliver the good news first : compared with this year ' s budget , both the commission and the council - albeit only temporarily - have proposed a total reduction of eur 144 million in the budgetary lines for employment .
but parliament has already made it clear in its guidelines that the issue of job creation is very close to our hearts , and that one of our first priorities in internal policy is to fight unemployment in europe .
accordingly , not only did the council declare , in the course of the conciliation procedure , that it was willing to support our job creation initiative through suitable instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises , we have also agreed to come to an understanding , in the course of the budgetary procedure , on an amount within the meaning of number 33 of the interinstitutional agreement , which we intend to use to achieve our goal .
as parliament made clear last year , we believe it is necessary to undertake a multiannual revision of category 4 in order to meet the requirements for reconstruction aid in the balkans in a stable and secure manner .
the council has obviously made this its guiding principle , for how else are we to interpret the fact that it persists in refusing to commit the funds for the pre-accession countries cyprus and malta to chapter 7 of the pre-accession strategy ?
the council ' s declared aim was an increase in expenditure for 2001 of only 3.5 % in comparison with the figures for the current budget .
the outcome is a draft budget in which the ratio of commitments to payments is no longer sound .
well , as you know , the aids pandemic currently affects 33.6 million people , the majority of them living in developing countries .
according to unaids , 5.6 million new cases and 2.6 million deaths were notified in 1999 , including 50 % women .
the epidemic has already wiped out the achievements of thirty years of development aid in the most affected countries .
the most tragic consequences are in africa .
inequality of opportunity in terms of access to treatment , intolerable in itself , is all the more repugnant today because information circulates , and circulates fast , on this planet .
the european union has been aware since the beginning of the 1980s , of the need to give the developing countries practical assistance in the fight against hiv-aids , putting respect for the people affected , in particular the most vulnerable , at the centre of its concerns .
the international therapeutic solidarity fund has obtained encouraging initial results for the two access to medication programmes started in 1999 in ivory coast and morocco .
their effects are already apparent in the mother-child prevention programmes set up by unaids and unicef .
the united nations , its agencies and the world bank are mobilising to strengthen international therapeutic solidarity .
similarly , the recent decision to make nevirapine , an antiretroviral molecule effective in the prevention of mother-child transmission , freely available adds credibility to that agreement , because it proves that this is not just an announcement , and the pharmaceutical industry really can take practical action .
but this is just a first stage in the struggle against the aids pandemic .
international aid must be strengthened urgently in the fight against hiv-aids .
coordination of all resources at all levels remains one of the top priorities for international aid within the framework of the strategies defined at international level , in partnership with national aids programmes and other donors .
we must urgently strengthen prevention programmes , improve the research effort geared to developing countries and give all patients real access to treatment .
a japanese conference will also be held in the context of the g8 this autumn on these three diseases .
the presidency will support these initiatives to find lasting solutions to the problem of global and respectful responsibility for people suffering from the disease , by means of practical projects and partnership agreements with the countries concerned .
guaranteeing access to quality treatment , information and the necessary resources for all must be the aim of the european community .
the theme of the conference , ' breaking the silence ' , provided a framework which helped to strengthen national and international action against hiv / aids .
also welcome was information on the many small-scale condom and safe sex empowerment education programmes that have proved their worth in stemming the spread of hiv / aids .
i believe that the conference could have given more attention to the lessons of success stories as regards improving and expanding these prevention strategies because information and prevention is in fact the most important ways of fighting aids .
prevention is central to a successful long-term national , international and global response to aids .
at the same time a full spectrum of care from basic treatment of opportunistic infections to entry retroviral therapy for hiv infection can no longer be denied to the vast majority of the millions of people infected with the virus .
the commission welcomes the new initiatives being taken against hiv / aids by some countries to produce cheaper generic drugs and would like to offer its support to help such countries provide technical assistance to other developing countries to enable them to pursue such initiatives .
we recognise that the production of generic drugs could greatly improve access to care and treatment for hiv / aids .
for example , one in four zimbabweans will die from hiv / aids , including one in three in the capital , harare .
more than a million children are already orphaned by hiv / aids in zimbabwe , almost 10 % of the population .
more than half the pregnant women in some areas in botswana are infected with hiv , and a third of them transmit hiv to their new-born babies during delivery .
the conference opened up exciting new opportunities and partnerships that will enable people who are vulnerable to hiv infection to gain access to technologies and procedures to make care more affordable for hiv / aids sufferers and invest in new technologies and products to prevent and treat hiv / aids .
it is accordingly discussing innovative approaches with its developing country partners as well as with other donors .
the commission will shortly submit a communication to the council and parliament outlining proposals for accelerated action to improve access to proven key measures and commodities to develop active and effective delivery structures and systems for drugs and increase investment in research into and development of priority drugs and vaccines .
the communication points especially to the value of bringing condoms , bed nets and other preventive procedures to the poorest and most vulnerable more rapidly and on a sufficiently large scale .
the european union accounted for 55 % of global development aid in the social sectors in 1997 and has increased its support for health , aids and population programmes from 1 % of our total assistance in 1986 to over 8 % at the present time , compared to an oecd average of 5.5 % .
we are therefore focusing more and more on this field .
this is in clear contrast to the recent offer from the united states to southern africa .
the commission is holding wide-ranging consultations on options for accelerated national and international action and innovative approaches to address these diseases .
on 28 september , in collaboration with the who and un aids , it will be hosting an international round table .
the meeting will consider how a comprehensive approach at national and international level might tackle these three diseases and how we can make a difference .
madam president , i should like to express my thanks to the president of the council and commissioner nielson for the statement they gave today with regard to the huge issue of aids , especially in africa .
millions of african children are already having to go through life without parents , millions of families have broken up , millions of children and elderly people are having to manage without the support and care of an ever dwindling part of the generation in between .
the situation in many african countries does not lend itself to european solutions .
as far as treatment is concerned , i believe it is important for the pharmaceutical industry to find affordable alternatives to the medication which is of some help in our western countries , also where transmission of the illness from mother to child is concerned .
i therefore hope with all my heart that the memorandum which commissioner nielson has announced will offer us a new perspective , with more people at the european commission who are prepared to tackle this issue , with more coordination at european level and , more than anything , with more funding , because that is what is needed to help africa leave this misery behind .
madam president , in my view an important step was taken at the durban international aids conference : although prevention also remains essential for combating this plague , the issue of access to treatment was finally placed at the heart of the debate .
the g8 summit at okinawa has also made it possible to set the seal on the commitment of the rich countries and set targets to lessen the ravages of aids in africa over the next ten years , but , unfortunately , the issue of resources was not really dealt with .
this very day a meeting should be taking place in new york , under the auspices of undp , between public and private operators to sign up to and finance the aids action plan for south africa .
obviously the european union is not standing on the sidelines of this mobilisation but i think we should step up a gear , and i heard the french presidency express that hope .
we eagerly await the commission ' s communication , with guidelines and proposals for combating the major transmissible diseases : aids of course , but also malaria and tuberculosis .
i am thinking , in particular , of the debates on industrial property rights and compulsory licences .
perhaps the round table of 28 september , organised by the commission , in liaison with who and unaids could be the first stage in setting that up ?
madam president , i am not going to repeat what has already been said , and said very well , and with very laudable intentions .
unaids itself acknowledges the ineffectiveness of the programme announced by the pharmaceutical laboratories , which were only trying to improve their image , in fact , and are now withdrawing when it comes to genuine negotiation of a reduction in the price of treatment .
the issue is no longer donations of medication , necessarily limited in time and subject to the selective interests of the laboratories , but adapting treatment price to purchasing power in the developing countries .
the european union must urge the pharmaceutical multinationals to grant voluntary licences , a first step towards access to treatment for the deprived populations .
if that is not done , the european union should impose respect for the agreements in case of medical emergency , and require the granting of compulsory licences , which would finally mitigate the problem of the price of treatment .
aids lays bare all the economic and social deficiencies of developing countries and grafts itself onto the more general problem of destitution .
and , by imf dictate , poor countries are cutting public expenditure , in particular on education and health .
the european union must contribute towards the rapid cancellation of the debt of african countries , which costs them 15 billion annually , so that those resources can be allocated to establishing the health infrastructure and new social programmes .
finally , the research priority must be to perfect a vaccine .
madam president , i am speaking on behalf of the members of the bonino list .
i have taken note of the words of the council representative to the effect that france will allocate part of the african countries ' debt to the fight against aids .
it is true that we currently spend usd 300 million per year on africa , but , at the same time , africa has a debt of usd 15 billion owed to the industrialised countries .
i therefore feel that there is a need for the commission and the member states of the union to make an ad hoc intervention , in consideration of the european union 's major responsibility precisely towards developing countries .
indeed , i would argue that we should relate the cancellation of the external debt of the poor countries to the fight against the aids epidemic , and it is precisely with a view to this that we support the request of the specific programme debt for aids contained in the resolution .
the cairo eu-africa summit on debt cancellation procedures and the durban conference are , in fact , closely related .
the grievous impact of aids on economic growth and the close relationship between the fight against poverty and the fight against aids requires coordination and closer and more effective cooperation between the who , the world bank and the united nations , with the involvement of the civil society of the countries concerned , the local churches and the non-governmental organisations .
every day , children infected with this virus are born in these countries due to a complete lack of suitable programmes for mothers-to-be .
in this context , i think that the proposed reduction in the price of drugs for the victims of aids in these countries is extremely important and i should like to urge the commission and the council to support this endeavour by exerting pressure on pharmaceutical companies .
i welcome the fact that both commissioner nielson and the french presidency now regard and describe the work on combating the hiv epidemic as a main priority .
it is also important to have new kinds of cooperation with the pharmaceuticals industry so that we can produce not only vaccines , but also medicines .
there is a whole host of programmes which are crying out for money and where contributions from the eu could be of use .
i am afraid that , in five to ten years ' time , the situation will be similar and very serious in parts of asia .
i welcome commissioner nielson ' s conference on 28 september 2000 and hope that it will lead to something of a crash programme for tackling these problems still more vigorously in the future .
we are very grateful to the commission for preparing its communication which we impatiently await and which will allow us to pool our energies and unite in a determination to act .
we must act without delay because this is an emergency , and the french presidency stands ready to put that determination to act into practice at european level .
to respond to the immense challenge we face , we need to mobilise all the partners , as i said in my earlier remarks , which drew a wholly positive echo from parliament .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at12 noon .
creating a monitoring centre for industrial change the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on creating a monitoring centre for industrial change .
before talking about the arrangements themselves , i think it is useful to give a brief review of the context in which this proposal was born .
the special european council in luxembourg on 21 and 22 november 1997 tasked a high level group of experts with analysing industrial change in the european union and looking at ways of anticipating and managing change as well as its economic and social repercussions .
all of us , in our own countries , are experiencing the radicalisation of certain social conflicts reflecting despair - i do mean despair - and incomprehension before the challenges of globalisation .
in its final report to the european commission , the group of experts drew up an inventory and made recommendations .
these include the interesting proposal to the commission to create a european monitoring centre for industrial change .
this centre would be a tool to help identify and analyse change in order to anticipate its consequences and ensure positive management of those developments .
the emergence of new information and communication technologies in the organisation of relations between the great principals and their sub-contractors - i am thinking of aeronautics , the motor industry - is bringing in its wake new ways of organising work liable to alter the industrial fabric substantially and promote the arrival of new territorial systems going beyond national frameworks .
the nature and importance of the social dialogue accompanying these transformations goes hand in hand with the extent of restructuring or technological evolution .
the european monitoring centre for industrial change may respond to this problem if its tasks and structure are defined in that way .
it should also identify and disseminate positive practical solutions to be implemented at various levels and promote exchange of experience on the evolution of and adaptation to change .
these tasks should respond to the needs of the european institutions , the social partners at all levels , the national and regional institutions and business .
it must be organised so as to fulfil its missions , and in our opinion that means a light , flexible structure .
in our opinion , european social partners and the commission should naturally be involved in the management of the centre in appropriate ways .
in the view of the french presidency , that proposal for a foundation should facilitate the rapid establishment of the centre .
france will do everything possible to ensure that it can be in place before the end of this presidency .
madam president , i have not forgotten how precious time is in this institution , so i have made a point of respecting my speaking time .
after this , in response to the european council , the commission invited a high level group of experts to report on the economic and social implications of industrial change and make recommendations on ways to prevent consequences of the kind witnessed at the renault factory .
in its report the high level group recommended the creation of an observatory .
this report has been endorsed by the council .
i am convinced of the need to provide european social partners and policy makers with a tool which enables us to adopt a forward-looking approach where industrial change is discussed at european level , with a view to managing it through positive and preventive action .
we have already discussed it three times in parliament .
the commission has already proposed in the social agenda presented in 28 june 2000 to invite the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in dublin - which is an existing structure - to put in place an information mechanism for change .
this information mechanism should assist the social dialogue between employers and employees and it could support public authorities by providing information data and analysis of existing information on industrial change .
the social partners indicated their interest in this mechanism in the forum of 15 july and committed themselves to finalising their approaches and presenting their ideas on the possible structure for this mechanism .
of course we shall take their opinion into account before our final proposal .
secondly , governments and other types of public sector organisations do not have a particularly good record or an aptitude for predicting change in industry , in commerce , in business and in enterprise .
let the economy and market forces get on with it .
i am curious about the socialist emphasis on industrial change when we in the developed economies now live in a situation in which 20 % or less of the work-force is employed in conventional industry and everyone else works in the services sector in the new economy .
i too would like to welcome nicole pery back here in the chamber and perhaps i could say , nicole , that we miss you particularly when we have extremely difficult votes to transact .
i would like to say that the compromise resolution tabled by my group and others has been cut down to the bare essentials to make it absolutely clear what we are calling for , but even so there seems to be a tremendous amount of confusion over exactly what we are calling for and i would therefore like to spell out two things that we are not calling for .
first , we are not calling for the creation of a new expensive agency or institute .
this would be a centre to gather information and intelligence from all possible partners and actors , business itself , institutions of higher and further education , the employment services both public and private , the social partners from all relevant actors and again i would say to mr chichester , we are not saying here that governments should try to predict change .
as both the minister and the commissioner have said , this follows on from the gyllenhammar high level group following the vilvoorde closure by renault .
the liberal and epp resolution says that such a centre would try to interfere in the markets and in commercial decisions .
it states that both council and commission have pulled back from the decision to create such an observatory , such a centre .
the fact of the matter is , however , that i can only guarantee us one hour here .
i will communicate this problem - and you will probably do so as well - to the conference of presidents and to parliament ' s bureau , because it may occur once as an exceptional case , but when it happens more than once we must tackle the problem and find a solution to it .
a european monitoring centre for industrial change is at odds with the liberal principle that governments should not interfere in commercial decisions .
the spectre of the repairable society is on the loose once again in europe .
therefore , my group has also failed to achieve a compromise with the socialist group on the resolution before us .
europe and the european economy are doing well .
the blessings of the internal market and particularly the introduction of the euro have given employment a shot in the arm .
this is not the first time that this parliament is discussing political interference in industry and business management .
mr president , the european union is facing far-reaching changes in our economy , globalisation , the new economy , the expansion of new technology and all kinds of demographic factors as well .
secondly we need involvement , involvement in the support networks , and this is the social implication that needs to be developed .
from this perspective , the commission and council should also ensure that topics such as the right to information and consultation , revision of the law on works councils and the role of employees and citizens in mergers and business closures with their serious social consequences can be brought up for discussion sooner rather than later .
and it is always the workers who have to pay the price , never the shareholders .
it sank because there was no observation system for icebergs in those days .
in so far as such an establishment will be independent and will have appropriate resources to carry out its research , and its work is made public and can serve as a basis for democratic debate , it can make a powerful contribution to developing intergovernmental cooperation which , in this area of social policy , remains predominant . ' that is not a quotation from some irresponsible or lunatic left-winger .
my friend steven hughes has explained that the socialists and the two other political groups tabling a joint resolution do not want a bureaucratic monster .
in fact , the commission has plenty of documentation available , and eurostat can provide very interesting statistics on industrial evolution in europe and beyond .
there are the national governments and research institutes .
there must be no duplication of existing work but coordination of it and a report , at least every six months , which can be debated in the council and in the european parliament .
a year later , as a first concrete step , we are offered a monitoring centre for industrial change .
fine , but let it really serve the cause of the employees .
the two sides of industry must be associated with this initiative by means budgetary resources allocated by the european institutions .
we have also established procedures like the participation of employees in the capital , profits and results of the company , all indispensable procedures during industrial restructuring and change .
of course there is still a great deal to be done in this field , but it seems to me that if we need to improve this type of procedure , as my colleagues have said , and it is not uptight to say so - we now have bodies in europe like the foundation in dublin and the european agency for health and safety in bilbao , with which our committee on employment and social affairs cooperates , that are in a position to evaluate the consequences of these industrial changes effectively .
and we should not forget that both sides of industry also have an indispensable role to play as regards industrial change at the european and the social level .
as has been said , the european parliament has on several occasions , at times of crises , restructuring or conversion of production plant , decided by a large majority on the need for the european institutions and social dialogue partners to intervene early enough to be able to find all the possible solutions in order to avert avoidable serious social conflict and prevent the deindustrialisation of entire territories and the triggering-off of processes of serious social exclusion .
what parliament was complaining of was the lack of information which would have made it possible to analyse these processes in due time and , more generally , to examine the changes taking place in production and employment in these firms before such an analysis lost its value due to the precipitous adoption of irreversible decisions .
i feel that the creation of a monitoring centre - a centre coordinating all the information useful for predicting restructuring and conversion processes - could be a valuable service for the community institutions and facilitate social dialogue at european level .
therefore , i call upon all those members who voted on the resolutions on the restructuring processes , from verwoord onwards , and especially those who voted on the michelin affair in a resolution which explicitly provided for the establishment of a monitoring centre for industrial change , to show consistency on this occasion .
mr president , with a tool such as this , it will , indeed , be possible not only to inform the workers concerned in advance and to explore the possibilities of averting or reducing redundancies - as stipulated by the community directive of 24 june 1992 - but also to facilitate at local and community level dialogue which would make it possible to ascertain the existence of alternative solutions to those put forward by the companies .
she wants to keep loss-making industries on life-support systems when we should be releasing the resources of labour and capital so that they can work in viable new enterprises .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday at noon .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0535 / 2000 ) .
according to the rules of procedure , for supplementary questions - which are not obligatory - you have 1 minute , but there is a parliament recommendation that only 30 seconds be used .
the european union regrets that the united states has not yet ratified the united nations convention on the rights of the child .
our representatives have been urging the united states to ratify it in bilateral contacts .
the european union often raises human rights issues in the context of its political dialogue with the united states and the council takes note of the case raised by the honourable member .
although the success of the event depends in large measure on the commitment of the international community as a whole , the council recognises that the european union can and must play a major role in the preparations , a role encouraged during informal contacts held with representatives of unicef .
mr president , i really must thank mr moscovici for the quality and content of his reply and for the fact that the european union feels that the international conventions of the united nations organisation , such as the united nations convention on the rights of the child , should be ratified .
because , if i am not mistaken , the united states have ratified the new international labour organisation convention on child labour but the convention is not being applied .
that is why we want to start having a much more determined political dialogue with the united states on this issue and press for ratification of the convention on the rights of the child by the united states .
question no 3 by ( h-0627 / 00 ) : subject : involvement of labour and management in various member states there is no dialogue of substance or effective cooperation between government bodies and representatives of labour and management on employment-related issues or , in a broader context , efforts to modernise the european social model .
on the latter aspect , both sides of industry participate , with the council and commission , in the work of the standing committee on employment with a view to facilitating coordination of employment policies in the member states by harmonising them with community objectives .
our social partners are also associated with the work of the committee on employment , consultation of both sides of industry in this context being informal .
as regards the efforts to strengthen the european strategy for jobs , when the employment guidelines are revised in 2001 , both sides of industry , including those at national level , will be invited to play a more important role in their definition , and in implementing and evaluating the guidelines which fall within their scope .
as regards the modernisation of the european social model , both sides of industry will be associated with the work of the new committee on social protection , just as they are already associated with the work of the old committee on employment and the labour market and its successor , the committee on employment .
following the conclusions of the lisbon european council , the fifteen are due to adopt a european social policy agenda at the nice european council in december 2000 .
that is an important priority for the french presidency .
the working document for that agenda is a communication from the commission adopted on 28 june .
we are currently succeeding in reconciling the problems of economic coordination , the major objectives of economic policy , the problems of coordination in social terms , the guidelines for employment and the various methods , and the various bodies working on it .
mr president , the social partnership should be a forward-looking partnership .
as you know , three experts were designated by the president of the european court of human rights on 12 july in order to check specifically whether the austrian government had contravened common european values since taking office on 4 february , and also to look into the decidedly unique political character of the austrian freedom party .
i have listened to the french presidency ' s answer with a great deal of interest .
the fact remains that i am speaking right now , let me repeat , on behalf of the presidency of the council of the european union , and that those measures are not measures undertaken within the context of the european institutions but rather a set of bilateral measures undertaken by 14 member states with regard to the fifteenth .
it is therefore possible to estimate that the percentage of young people in education at 16 is approximately 90 % and at 18 approximately 60 % .
in fact , i have consulted the statistics and i have consulted the information provided by the european foundation for education , and i am surprised by the rosy picture they paint of the situation in the countries of the east .
let me repeat to the honourable member that i have available a table which , in effect , shows that what i have said includes the disparities .
i can give you this summary table if you wish , mrs gutierrez-cortines .
this is what we wish to do for the european union .
it must be considered , however , that if this is made a requirement within the european union , then this is the requirement within the body to which the candidate countries wish and are going to accede .
the question of whether it should be an approach like that used for the internal market or like that in use for the schengen countries can be posed at a later date .
question no 6 by ( h-0605 / 00 ) : subject : negotiating mandate covering the agricultural section of the free trade agreement with the maghreb the commission has submitted its proposal for a negotiating mandate for the free trade agreement with morocco , tunisia and israel to the council ' s ' maghreb ' working party .
these agreements include a periodic review clause for agriculture , according to which the parties undertake to plan for the increased liberalisation of their agricultural trade , with this process complementing the gradual dismantling of the tariff system in preparation for the setting up of the industrial free trade area due in 2010 .
the morocco , tunisia and israel association agreements make provision for examination of the agricultural trade situation , as of 1 january 2000 , with a view to the establishment of gradual liberalisation measures , beginning on 1 january 2001 .
on 20 july 2000 , the council approved the commission ' s negotiating mandate , which comprises general guidelines .
the mandate therefore authorises the community negotiator , if necessary , to grant the mediterranean partners tariff preferences for new products or to improve existing concessions , while , however , taking the vulnerability of certain products and the mechanisms of the common agricultural policy into consideration .
in this respect , it specifies that the commission is , in collaboration with the member states , to carry out an assessment of the potential impact of the concessions on the economic and commercial interests of the european union , and obviously the council will not take a decision until it has consulted the results of this assessment .
at the moment there are agricultural sectors in the mediterranean and also in the outermost regions of the community , which could be threatened as a result of the very generous proposed concessions by the commission .
this common position was sent to the european parliament for second reading at the july 2000 part-session .
the commission will present its proposal on the implementation of a single financial framework at a later date .
what i do recall is the european council in helsinki , as i took part in this discussion there , having just a short time before been on a brief diplomatic mission to turkey and greece , and the helsinki conclusions are the ones which are binding upon us and upon everyone .
in order for turkey to become a member of the european union , it must respect its values and therefore make the necessary efforts .
at the same time , we must greet its efforts positively .
moreover , i should point out that agricultural subsidies are among the subjects dealt with in the wto negotiations which commenced in june 2000 .
the implementation of the reduction commitments agreed at the time of the 1994 marrakech accord is also scheduled for examination in the course of these negotiations , which are based on the principles outlined in article 20 of the agreement on agriculture .
i wish to raise the question with the president-in-office of the change in american policy since we in the european union changed the whole direction of the support we give to agriculture following the last round of gatt negotiations .
at the same time the european union , in pursuit of its policies which were forced on us by the clearance group and the united states , has reduced its share of world markets in the dairy sector , in the cereal sector and in the meat sector .
question no 9 by ( h-0616 / 00 ) : subject : change to the unanimity required for cultural issues in view of the intergovernmental conference europe ' s common cultural heritage , alongside the development of the member states ' cultures and respect for diversity , has been considered an important aspect of european integration and has been incorporated into the eu treaties , in article 151 .
this article specifically provides for the encouragement of cooperation between member states , in order to support and supplement actions in various particularly vulnerable areas .
in this context , article 151 is one of the provisions likely to be converted to the rule of qualified majority voting .
minister , everyone who knows that we urgently need a cultural policy in the european union also knows - and i agree with you - that the intergovernmental conference represents a huge chance to change the unanimity rule .
the more economic policies progress , the more we need to study their cultural impact and develop a structural cultural policy .
let me abandon my official role for a second to say that we would like to see qualified majority voting become the general rule and unanimous voting the exception , rather than the opposite , which is the case at present .
this is the spirit in which the council will declare its opinion on the legislative proposals put forward by the commission , when the time comes .
moreover , the european union ' s ministers for agriculture , whose informal six-monthly meeting has been held from saturday until today in biarritz , have just stressed their determination , now more clearly than in the past , to focus in agricultural policies on boosting product quality and diversity .
the impact of enlargement on the budget was the subject of intense discussion at the european council in berlin in march 1999 when the financial perspectives for 2000-2006 were drawn up .
for each year in this period , and for each heading , the financial perspectives give the expenditure totals as commitment appropriations , and the commitment appropriations laid down under the various headings of the financial perspectives are not interchangeable .
there is hence no question of enlargement-related expenditure being funded at the expense of agricultural expenditure under heading 1 of the financial perspectives .
question no 11 by ( h-0619 / 00 ) : subject : attack on greek minority in the village of dervitsani in albania the greek inhabitants of dervitsani , a village in albania , passed the night of 3 to 4 july 2000 in shelters after being attacked by anti-tank missiles from the neighbouring village of lazarati .
the previous week the council of europe had recommended that the albanian government take measures to protect the minorities living in albania .
the european union supports the efforts of the albanian government to restructure and modernise its police forces in order to increase the security of albanian citizens and of the region .
the multinational advisory police element in albania , formed under the authority of the weu council and deployed in albania since 1997 , has widened and developed the scope of its mission following the adoption , in march 1998 , of a joint action on the european union ' s contribution to re-establishing a viable police force in albania .
following the adoption of the action programme for albania and the neighbouring region , the council is currently examining the proposed measures in order to identify those which can be implemented speedily .
the action programme is basically devoted to matters relating to problems of migration and asylum .
the proposed measures do , however , include projects in the field of human rights and the protection of minorities .
the european union is , moreover , already active in these fields .
since albania is eligible for an association and stabilisation agreement , its performance in terms of respect for democratic principles and human and minority rights and in terms of public order and the rule of law , are closely monitored by the european union , i can assure you .
however , the purpose of my question was to draw attention once again to the huge problems in the balkans , problems caused by economic and social deprivation and , more importantly , the fact that there is no democratic infrastructure .
this is a general problem which must be dealt with as such .
nonetheless , the suggested actions do include projects or programmes seeking to step up democracy and respect for human rights and minority rights in general .
the council working groups are currently proceeding to examine the various measures proposed in order to identify which of them could be implemented in the near future .
question no 12 by ( h-0622 / 00 ) : subject : reduction of tacis aid to russia the european union has punished russia for its military action in chechnya by reducing aid paid under the tacis programme .
the relevant management committee is scheduled to examine these proposals on 17 october this year .
a second tranche will be allocated to aid in support of the reform process initiated by the russian authorities recently in order to establish a genuine rule of law , which will bring the tacis appropriations allocated to russia in 2000 to eur 92 million at the most .
the only answer i can give you regarding the budget released in 2001 is that it will depend on the decisions the council is induced to make at a later stage in the light of development of the situation in russia .
this situation will be assessed in relation to the criteria for the progress to be achieved in terms of institutional reforms , democratisation , the strengthening of civil society and human rights protection throughout the territory of russia .
however , unfortunate events such as those which took place on 22 june , caused by a small number of people , must not become the general rule .
it is therefore important to adopt measures which will prevent , in all events , their repetition and that the sanction adopted by the competent parties shall serve as an example .
mr president , mr moscovici , very serious attacks have also taken place in finland on one certain means of livelihood , namely fur farming .
the situation you mention may share some of the features of the previous situation , but it is not the result of the same regulation , which is to do with fisheries issues .
i am not going to respond ad hoc to a question on such a difficult subject .
question no 14 by ( h-0625 / 00 ) : subject : public council meetings one of the three goals of the french presidency is to bring europe closer to its citizens .
moreover , rule 8 of the council 's rules of procedure provides for the organisation of public debates .
one of the top priorities of the french presidency was , therefore , to draw up a list of public debates , covering a wide range of subjects , which was adopted by the permanent representatives committee ( coreper ) on 5 july 2000 .
two debates were held in july , a debate on the presentation of the presidency ' s programme at the general affairs council on 10 july 2000 , and a second debate on the presidency programme at the ecofin council on 17 july .
on 9 november 2000 , there will be a public debate on young people and europe as part of the education and youth council .
finally , on 20 november 2000 , there will be a debate on food safety as part of the agriculture council .
over 3000 detailed reports of the public debates have been delivered by post .
in addition , television channels have the opportunity to broadcast these debates , in total or in part , via the ' europe by satellite ' channel .
finally , the french presidency strives to make as much information as possible on all council proceedings available to the public on its internet website , as well as subject indexes for the main topics under discussion .
the curious situation in the council of ministers is that the public only has access to certain debates .
i should just like to remind the honourable member of the different roles of the various institutions of the european union .
i am fortunate enough to be a member of the cabinet in the government of my country .
it is because of this concept of the separation of powers that debates are designated as either open or closed .
since the time allotted to questions to the council has elapsed , question nos 15 to 40 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , the council common position whose aim you have just stated has been referred back to parliament for a second reading , not because of its content , but because of its form .
with regard to content , parliament has agreed to commit eur 135 million over the next five years to measures aiming to compensate turkey for the sacrifices it has agreed to make in order to enter into a customs union with the european union , and on this point there is no divergence with the council .
with regard to form , we wanted to specify a number of areas in which the corresponding measures should be agreed as a priority , and the council did not want to accept three of our proposals regarding the wording of a precautionary principle on the development of nuclear energy , in particular in earthquake zones .
the protection and recognition of the cultural identity of minorities and support for measures seeking to abolish capital punishment and , finally , perhaps most importantly , the development of any form of cooperation seeking to resolve the kurdish problem .
i say that these matters of form are not trivial in a debate that precedes the one which is due to take place on accession in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy in october , and following which , in november , i shall have to present the report on the state of progress of the work and any changes in attitudes within the european union and turkey .
i think i can say that there is a broad consensus for granting turkey a privileged position for geographical , historical , economic and political reasons , but i would also say that this privileged position can and must be envisaged within the european union itself just as much as in close cooperation with the union .
i understand that this was probably your opinion , commissioner verheugen , and i think i can guarantee you the support of a large majority of my colleagues in this area .
the decision on turkey ' s accession is too important for the future of the european union and turkey for it to be made in veiled silence , or even in secrecy , behind closed doors .
as rapporteur on enlargement , i was convinced of this , not only by the richness and passion of the debates that have already taken place in parliament , but also by observing the reactions in turkey itself , both in government circles and in civil society .
i shall come back to these contrasting reactions in detail when i present my report .
the people of turkey consider that entry into the european union will require not only a painless revision of their legal arsenal and the partial loss of their sovereignty , to which they remain attached , but also a radical change in their habits and mentality , for which they do not seem prepared .
i shall repeat this proposal in my report and i think i can say that the turkish government is not hostile to this , but quite the opposite , it would seem .
there is a kurdish problem in turkey .
the council must not forbid the european parliament to propose its contribution to the solution .
if the text of this regulation is referred back for a second reading , it is not purely for a matter of form , but because parliament refuses to accept this kind of political sleight of hand .
i am able to support him on behalf of my group , and i believe it must be possible to reach an agreement with the council .
we are keen to use this instrument to promote economic and social development in turkey .
naturally , we hope that , parallel to this - and perhaps even as a result of it - political development in turkey towards democracy and respect for human rights , in particular respect for its own kurdish population , will also be strengthened , and the death penalty abolished .
mr president , our relations with turkey should promote democracy , stability and consistency .
the path to those goals is partly by way of social and economic development , and the way to social and economic development is partly by means of foreign investment .
the union ' s finance package will be an incentive to further investment in turkey and , in the process , will also promote and consolidate democracy and human rights .
mr president , on behalf of my group , i should like to thank the rapporteur for his recommendation for second reading .
it is no secret that turkey cannot be democratic in our sense of the word until such time as the economic and social problems there have been solved .
it is also widely appreciated that turkey will not be able to get on top of these problems alone and without our aid .
mr president , just nine months - or perhaps i should say already nine months - have passed since the helsinki resolution granting turkey candidate status .
so do you want to use this money as bait so that you can penetrate the turkish economy even further , so that you can plunder the turkish people ' s wealth even more ?
the strange nature of relations between the european union and turkey , which we have experienced for many years , from the beginning and throughout , is due to the political problem which we call turkey .
and i think that the main issue is precisely this process and this road .
from this viewpoint , the morillon proposal is an encouraging prospect .
the report now proposes adding three points to the draft regulation .
a special importance attaches to this draft regulation for it constitutes the last of the three pillars of financial aid for turkey , the others being the measures in favour of turkey in the framework of the meda programme and the regulation issued by the council in april .
improvements in relations between the union and turkey following the european council , meeting in helsinki , have enabled us to speak openly and frankly with each other on all issues .
the strengthened political dialogue at all levels characteristic of the climate following helsinki has made a decisive contribution to this state of affairs .
the report contains a host of proposed reforms for improving the human rights situation .
i also expressly insisted upon this in the course of the discussions in turkey .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
there are risks - as there always are when innovation bursts forth - but the transition to digital technology will bring with it huge opportunities for pluralism and massive production possibilities for the system .
the community therefore has to keep up with progress and endeavour to ensure that digital technology fulfils its potential as an opportunity for culture , pluralism , cultural and linguistic diversity and for the european economy and technical innovation and research in europe .
we consider that the instruments which have already been defined in the commission 's text will make it possible to achieve these goals .
however , the debate generated in parliament , which has looked at different points of view and has pulled out all the stops , as did the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport , in order to find a common point of agreement with the result that the report was adopted unanimously , proposes a limited number of nevertheless important supplements .
firstly : the need for a rapid revision of the legal instruments governing the sector , in particular the " television without frontiers " directive which has been in need of revision for a long time .
secondly : in order to avert the risk of dependency of our cultural industry in the event of expansion , of growth of the number of channels , we would like to introduce the possibility of production investment in the audiovisual sector .
the free movement of information and freedom of expression serve now to safeguard rights and freedoms and will always do so .
the citizens ' confidence in the audiovisual service must be won through compliance with the principles of the protection of human dignity and of minors .
technology and content cannot be governed by the same legislation : technology must be neutral and content must be regulated .
the audiovisual sector basically faces the task of having to develop in two main fields .
thirdly , television in europe .
we therefore say a clear yes to the protocol of the treaty of amsterdam on public service broadcasting and to the member states ' responsibility for commissioning and for securing finance .
however , i want to confine my remarks this evening to public service broadcasting in the digital age because there are some very important public access issues that we need to address when defining the principles from the crossover in our current media to the development of digital broadcasting .
defining the values and principles underlying public broadcasting gives us some difficulties anyway , as member states , corporations , and broadcasters all have very different ideas of what public broadcasting constitutes .
however , this should not prevent us from defining it in the digital age , because these principles are very important to us all , and , as infrastructure has developed , so content is going to develop as well .
overcoming that divide , to my mind , should be one of the key points that we emphasise in this report .
secondly , we are a democratic society , and digital policy in the audiovisual sector can connect our local citizens to our citizens at the centres of power .
in terms of cultural richness and diversity , it is important both that we should have individual centres of cultural excellence and that we be bound as a european continent .
mr president , commissioner , the airwaves are buzzing .
you cannot open a newspaper or put the radio or television on without being confronted by new developments in the it or digitalisation sectors .
as the rapporteur rightly points out , the av sector is an extremely important sector in terms of employment , but also in terms of freedom of expression , democracy and cultural diversity in europe .
complementary measures and cooperation with the business community , and fiscal measures , these are the key words of a more effective policy intended to increase the financial resources and to improve the marketing and distribution .
on a final note : we attach a great deal of importance to the freedom of the user and therefore the same applies to parents .
the effect of the " television without frontiers " directive has been that a large percentage of national works are still broadcast in each country , without managing to have these works circulated between countries .
in this context , we agree that the cultural diversity that is advocated today is not a simple addition of the respective identities of each member state , but the exchange and circulation of these identities .
the issue of the work ' s content concerns us all .
one of the goals of the public service , however , is the general interest , and for this reason it must be valued .
public television channels are developing autonomously in each member state , pursuant to protocol 32 of the treaty of amsterdam , but they are agreed on taking on similar tasks , such as information , innovation , room for exchange and integration etc .
moreover , we must not be intimidated but take pride in the entire audiovisual sector in the digital age as a great vehicle of freedom , information and movement of ideas .
mr president , commissioner , mr veltroni , on behalf of the italian radicals , i cannot support the positive view you have expressed of the report under discussion on the communication from the commission on the guidelines for the community 's audiovisual policy in the digital age .
i cannot support your view because the communication is a reproduction of the old european tv and cinema cliche : direct public intervention through state agencies , welfarism and disregard for the nature of the market , a cliche which is characterising the audiovisual sector more and more .
all this has been dredged up and ' modernised ' to suit the new digital age of multimedia convergence and the extraordinary spread of the internet .
moving on to some specific points of the report under consideration .
with regard to intellectual property and copyright - another point covered by the report - i feel that it is pointless and damaging to the positive development of the internet to strengthen the directive on copyright , as it is proposed to do .
remember the napster and the new tell cases .
lastly , on the subject of the privatisation of television , we call for a revision of the amsterdam protocol which is referred to here as if it is set in stone .
the financial times has raised the issue of the privatisation of the jewel of european public television , the bbc .
it is clear that a great effort has been made to introduce new issues and to take new steps in european audiovisual policy .
however , i believe that we still have a lot to do on certain points , both in the commission and in parliament .
we are very much lagging behind in relation to the huge changes taking place in the audiovisual sector , particularly as a result of digitalisation .
we all know that digitalisation began about five years ago and therefore this work on audiovisual policy is timely to say the least .
there are five points i would like to highlight because i believe that sooner or later they will have to be reviewed : first is the definition of public service .
this is important if we want to have a public service in europe in an environment which is truly competitive - and this can be seen from the audience for public services - and also for the good of the private audiovisual service .
the fourth point refers to the transfer from analogue tv to digital tv and its consequences for users in terms of the use and acquisition of new terminals .
the audiovisual policy should tackle these points and also go into more depth in the field of competition .
the commission ' s initiative in this is also very welcome , as is the clarification of roles in respect of the information society and the main areas of culture .
amid this technological revolution it is vital to bear in mind the social and cultural importance of media communications .
in that connection we must honour the additional protocol of the treaty of amsterdam , according to which member states decide how to organise public service finances .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are talking about the " television without frontiers " directive .
those of us who are interested in defining public service on a national basis must be watchful .
not all languages are in fact equal in the eu in this respect .
as far as we are concerned , the problem is not whether information will be controlled by american or european monopolies .
the real problem is that the people need to develop their resistance and enforce their right to fundamental information .
that is why i am calling for a digital europe initiative with clear plans for the harmonised introduction of digital television and the digitalisation of content .
thirdly , audiovisual policy concerns infrastructure and content .
mr president , the document presented by the commission in relation to its policy in the audiovisual sector in the digital era includes , amongst other things , two ideas which i consider to be fundamental .
firstly , we must safeguard the future of the dual system of public and private television , and it is essential that european public operators can make full use of the possibilities offered by the new information technologies .
secondly , cultural and linguistic diversity is a fundamental objective of community policy in the audiovisual sector .
to this end , i wish to propose that the commission , in its action and aid , prioritise positive discrimination in favour of the audiovisual sectors of the regional and minority cultures and languages of the european union .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , a glance at german cable television , where some 30 channels are now already jostling for attention , is enough to show that multiplicity is not the same thing as diversity .
mr o 'toole is right in saying that simulcasts would not make it possible to attract a group of substantial users and he therefore believes that a trial period for new audiovisual products on channels made available through digital transmission , possibly only over sections of territory , will enable operators and users to achieve the same objective .
the commission is right to say that the system of funding adopted by the member states must comply with the principle of proportionality and must not influence market conditions and competition in the community in a way contrary to the interests of society .
as you know , the council also supported the commission 's approach in the conclusions approved at its meeting of 16 may this year , which makes for pleasing unanimity .
in particular , the commission welcomes parliament 's support on the regulatory principle described in the communication .
the commission takes note of parliament 's comments on this directive and will take due account of them in carrying out the examination planned for the end of 2002 .
it only said that it would carry out a study of this technology in order to verify whether or not a revision was necessary .
the commission also agrees with parliament that the principle of a clear demarcation between editorial content and advertising should be maintained in all forms of media .
with regard to the comments on the draft report concerning the pluralism of the media , it should be noted here that digital technology and in particular the internet presents unprecedented possibilities for creating and developing a pluralist society .
for example , digital technology allows for a colossal increase in the number of channels , thereby reducing barriers to access for content producers .
the internet also , at least potentially , allows each citizen to become a content producer themselves and creates the opportunity for a world-wide forum in which anyone can take part , with the advantages and dangers that that implies .
the obstacles to pluralism in the digital world include poverty and a lack of education and training .
this is something that is very dear to me , and also to jacques lang with whom i have already discussed the possibility of developing this approach .
nonetheless , other measures could , obviously , also be adopted , in the light of experience of the digital age and in response to parliament 's questions , the commission will carry out consultations on these issues during its examination of the " television without frontiers " directive .
the digital revolution will open up many new ways of exploiting audiovisual works : video on demand via the internet , for example .
progress has already been made , however , in the past ten years .
at the same time , with regard to cinema , we can see a significant increase in the number of european successes .
so we must not stop , ladies and gentlemen , and i know that i have your support in this , but i need money to be able to carry out the new media plus programme .
this is the great danger that will affect the final decision on this project .
i hope that in the interests of european cinema in all our member states , we will obtain good results in this area at the forthcoming ' culture ' councils .
i would also like to draw the attention of those who are not here now but who have expressed criticism , saying that media and media plus only work at european level in addition to national systems that invest in production .
it is not , therefore , redundant , it is not something superfluous , but something that is absolutely necessary if we want our european films to circulate beyond the borders of their country of production .
furthermore , this communication could also assess the need for intervention in this field at community level and the opportunity to develop financial engineering mechanisms in favour of cinematographic productions .
but it must be clearly understood that we fully recognise the importance of public financing for audiovisual production and the need to provide for specific treatment in this area .
i would like to emphasise this last statement , as it is of primary importance for our whole political future .
now , you all know that public service broadcasting is a very sensitive and highly complex issue , and the commission has clearly explained its position many times , in particular in this communication .
the commission does not intervene in this area and the text on transparency is clear on this point .
by virtue of the treaty , nonetheless , the commission has a duty to ensure that the financing system does not affect trading conditions and competition in the community to the detriment of the common good .
for the commission to be able to do its job and in order to assess whether the advantages granted to the businesses in question correspond to the public service goals which are their responsibility , these goals must be defined by the member state and their financing must be transparent .
any commercial activity practised by these businesses must not , directly or indirectly , benefit from funds intended for public service .
certain ministers considered that a new additional stage of the amsterdam protocol was necessary , given the rapid technological development in this sector , and i have stated my readiness to discuss this issue with you and with those ministers in the near future .
therefore , the public services defined by the state , with public financing clearly contained in the definition of public service , are not affected by the directive on transparency .
guaranteed access for citizens to certain broadcasting services and certain types of content is a question of defining the public service broadcasting mandate and , in accordance with the amsterdam protocol , is therefore the responsibility of the member states .
it should be noted that , within the framework of the current directive , a contact committee has been created to examine all aspects of audiovisual policy linked to the directive .
the commission has clarified its position many times .
it should retain its freedom , acquired during the uruguay round , to draw up and implement financial and regulatory provisions in the audiovisual sector with a view in particular to safeguarding cultural diversity .
in its conclusions of 26 october 1999 , the council gave the commission to undertake the forthcoming negotiations on services and i can frankly assure you that my colleague , commissioner lamy , is in full agreement with this direction .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
i , as a british conservative , often find fault - and it is very easy to find fault - with many of the programmes organised and paid for by the european commission and the european union .
certainly of the people who took an erasmus course in 1998 and bothered to reply to the questionnaire 98 % found that the programme was extremely positive or at least very positive .
fortunately two or three members ( and the commission as well ) did read them .
one helps with a bit of punctuation , a bit of grammar on the particular passage in point 4 , the second in point 6 .
on the subject of the erasmus programme , which is , after all , a part of the socrates programme , i should like to say that - given the need not only to set up the programme but also to evaluate it - it is quite important to examine the efficiency of what is being offered and to carry out an assessment of the resources , if new knowledge is to be obtained and , above all , the defects in the programme removed .
the report has shown that the reasons for this are both structural and cultural , as well as economic to quite a significant degree .
so , you see , these programmes also achieve the unanimity of the whole population and naturally , they can always be improved .
this year , 110 000 students are receiving the special attention that we give to all aspects of their erasmus trip and to the smooth running of this section of the socrates programme , and we thank parliament for supporting this measure .
it is often said that only the children of fairly comfortably off families can travel as the others cannot live on this modest grant .
if we consult our statistics , however , 4 out of 5 erasmus students were the first members of their family to study abroad , which does illustrate the role that this programme plays in the opportunities for mobility available in europe to students of new social backgrounds .
furthermore , even if the latter have more to live on because they receive additional help from their parents on top of their grant , in other respects it seems that these financial difficulties are the only criticism made .
i think that in future , i will once again have to request the help of all the national and regional authorities in this area .
i hope that the discussion on ' mobility ' that the french presidency wanted will get this situation moving and that goodwill will be sought both at a private level and at regional , european and national levels so that the great success of erasmus will encompass a growing number of students .
this is the price to pay for creating europe , since students who have got to know another country within the framework of erasmus , who have made friends in another country , at another university , are the true europeans who will make european policy tomorrow .
a greater number of happy erasmus students is in the interests of our society as a whole .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
however , at the end of the day , they are two important agreements which will add to the already significant network of international fisheries agreements between the european union and third countries , the basic pillar of the common fisheries policy , since it is essential to cover our supply requirements , both for the european consumer and for our industry , and it is also essential to do so by means of our own fleet .
the fisheries agreements with third countries therefore fulfil a crucial objective of the common fisheries policy , and they also contribute to employment and , in most cases , in european regions which are very dependent on this activity .
notable in both cases is the constant and worrying increase in the payments by shipowners while , curiously , these are not included in other agreements , as is notoriously the case with the agreement with greenland .
for example , in the case of mauritius , there is an increase in the amount that shipowners are to pay for licences , of eur 5 per tonne of fish , that is to say , they are increased from eur 20 to eur 25 , and there is also an equivalent increase in the case of catches by ship .
the european union ' s contribution is reduced by 29 % , payable by shipowners which , in the case of complete exploitation of the fishing allowances , would mean a contribution of 23.5 % of the total cost .
in this context we also wish to highlight the imbalances in the internal distribution of these fishing allowances by the european commission amongst the member states , as was the case with cephalopods in the agreement with guinea .
both agreements give significant support to the local authorities for the conservation of their own fishing resources and furthermore advocate agreements between states as opposed to private agreements - which is very important in agreements such as the one with morocco , which we are trying to negotiate - as well as the contribution of the european union to the establishment of modern control systems , which forms part of the conservationist position of the european union in all of the world ' s seas , in accordance with its internal approach to its own community waters .
on the other hand , there is an important direct relationship between the financial compensation and the objectives and cooperation actions that have been agreed .
the committee on fisheries has voted in favour of these agreements , and this has become the norm , since it considers that they are both highly beneficial to both parties , that is to say , the european union and the third countries .
the rapporteur is against this amendment , since , if only those who benefit directly from community policies are to pay for them , that would quite simply be a way of breaking up the single market and dismantling the european union itself .
we are therefore in favour of both fisheries agreements , which we hope may continue in the future , and we are anxious , commissioner , to be able soon to hold a debate in our fisheries committee , and to repeat what we are saying now , in relation to the extremely important fisheries agreement with morocco .
mr president , commissioner , in principle i approve the new protocols to the fisheries agreements with mauritius and guinea .
the commission and the rapporteur have done some good work .
yet , in the committee on fisheries , we are repeatedly confronted by the issue of whether the price paid by the european union to third countries for its fishing rights is not too high .
mr president , the socialist group supports the proposal for a council regulation on the european community fisheries agreements with mauritius and the republic of guinea .
both agreements fall within a general european community policy based on our presence in the rest of the world .
the fishing sector forms part of the community ' s economy and , in order for the community fleet to be able to fish and carry out its activity , the community must reach agreements with third countries and international organisations , so that our fishermen can enjoy adequate fishing allowances .
in the case of guinea we have had an agreement since 1983 and in the case of mauritius since 1989 .
there can be no doubt about the cost-effectiveness of these agreements for the european union , as demonstrated in the study commissioned by the commission on their cost-benefit relationships .
nor can we doubt the beneficial effects for the other contracting parties , in this case mauritius and the republic of guinea .
these are agreements which benefit both parties and which have been amended over time , being adapted to the demands of the sustainable exploitation of resources and of actions supporting the efforts of the authorities in the third countries to develop their own fishing sector .
therefore , the contrast with other agreements - i would like to highlight , for example , the agreement with greenland , in which the shipowners do not contribute to its cost - is the all the more drastic .
in the case of mauritius , it also reduces the volume of authorised catches and specifies the number of vessels authorised to fish .
the approval by the european parliament of these two fisheries agreements sends a political message demonstrating our support for the signing and renewal of other fisheries agreements which are of much greater importance for our sector because of the number of ships and fishermen which depend on them .
i am referring in particular to the agreement with morocco .
it now falls to the european commission to negotiate hard in order to reach a reasonable agreement with morocco .
in principle , those of us in the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party support the eu ' s having fisheries agreements with third countries , but i should also like to point out that what we in the liberal group want - and this is why we have tabled a number of amendments - is for the fishermen or ship owners to make more of a contribution to financing the fisheries agreements .
the fisheries agreements are extremely important for certain regions in which , in addition to employment in the fisheries sector itself , there are a range of associated businesses wholly or partially dependent upon the fishing industry .
by means of the fisheries agreements , the eu is able to develop its activities in this sphere and exchange fishing rights with third countries .
the effect of the eu fleets upon fishing resources - in terms of structural policy and the financial situation - ought to be analysed much more than it is at present .
i want to conclude by asking the commission to provide the committee on fisheries with a report on what for third countries are the positive and negative consequences of the eu ' s fisheries agreements .
all the evidence shows that agreements between the eu and third world countries have been conservation disasters .
not only will i vote against these proposals , but i shall urge my government to oppose them .
we see from this that , apart from the importance of fisheries agreements for the european union , they can also be used as instruments for development in these countries .
as a portuguese citizen , i am bound to regret the fact in this context that the commission and the council are so far behind in their negotiations on the agreement with morocco .
it is nevertheless important that the requirements of supervision and control , as well as the programmes designed to control the reduction of the fishing effort are also imposed on the other countries that fish in the waters of these developing countries and not only on the member states of the european union .
private contracts between european shipowners and the guinean government are often concluded without this form of assistance from the local fishing industry , and contribute to over-fishing due to a lack of controls .
these trawlers will fish in the coastal zone , where they are a direct threat to local fishermen .
all member state ships should respect an economic twelve-mile exclusion zone .
the agreement takes more account of the developing countries themselves , in this case guinea and mauritius , than was formerly the case .
mr president , it seems that the commission is happy to ignore the requests of the council and this parliament - the former clearly expressed at the council of ministers of october 1997 - and delay the work on the guidelines for the negotiation of the fisheries agreements .
the protocol with guinea-conakry is a good example .
furthermore , the commission has been prepared to ignore the principle of relative stability by casually removing from the community fleet fishing rights that have been acquired in accordance with that principle .
i have always argued for the total exploitation of the fishing rights granted , but in all waters , not just in relation to the agreements with the southern countries .
mr president , all of this illustrates the mental and physical chaos of our community fishing authorities , and it will only be resolved when the guidelines which i referred to earlier are established in a clear and agreed way .
can i first of all welcome the report and congratulate the rapporteur for his work in bringing forward this report ?
there is little doubt that fisheries agreements are coming under much closer scrutiny to determine what they achieve and what they deliver , not only for people in the european union , but also for the countries with which they were concluded in the first place .
the rapporteur rightly mentioned the agreement with morocco several times .
we cannot overlook the concern about fisheries agreements .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i should like to say a warm thank you to the rapporteur , mr varela suanzes-carpegna , for the two reports he has submitted today when the new protocol for a fisheries agreement between the european community and the republics of mauritius and guinea is up for discussion .
this new protocol is the fourth since the framework agreement came into force in 1990 .
licence fees for ship owners have been considerably increased , from eur 20 to eur 25 per tonne .
that is in line with the council ' s 1997 decision in connection with the third country agreements , whereby costs are to be distributed in a balanced way .
i should like specifically to mention at this point that a premium is to be introduced for the purpose of supporting the guinean authorities in improving fish stocks in guinea ' s exclusive economic zone .
finally , the protocol provides for close cooperation between both parties in administering the measures .
monitoring is to be facilitated by means of a detailed financial report and by the community ' s ability to review payments in the light of whether or not the measures have in practice been carried out .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
i would like to thank you both for the courage and open-mindedness with which you have both accepted the invitation i made to you during my official visit to the middle east in february this year .
it has been made possible because you are both men of peace , and it is as such that parliament welcomes you here today .
i am mindful that your visit is also due in great part to the persuasive diplomatic efforts of our fellow member , luisa morgantini , chairman of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council , whom i must thank particularly for this . ( applause ) it is highly significant that , in your capacities as the speakers of the two assemblies which will be required to ratify the agreements which are being drawn up , and in which negotiations you are yourselves taking part , you have opted to come together to address the european parliament .
there is not one of us who is unaware of the complexity of the situation in the middle east , in this land which is home to what a large part of the human race considers to be the most sacred historic sites , which are hence the most disputed sites .
mr avraham burg , speaker of the knesset , mr abu ala , speaker of the palestinian legislative council , the debate which you have just heard has testified to the european union ' s and , in particular , the european parliament ' s interest in the progress of the current negotiations .
allow me to hope , without denying the major obstacles , weighty as we know them to be , during this crucial phase of the negotiations , that you will be able to assure this house that the gateway to peace will remain open and that both your nations will go through it together .
mrs fontaine , president of the european parliament , members of the european parliament , ladies and gentlemen , let me begin by expressing my great pleasure at the dialogue we have had this morning on the peace process and europe ' s great interest in the success of this process and in establishing a climate favourable to this peace .
let me also express my great pleasure at seeing a great number of european leaders who have distinguished themselves in working and in continuing to work in a serious way in order to find a solution to the problem of the middle east .
it is my very great honour , as president of the palestinian legislative council , to accept your invitations to this significant meeting with the elected representatives of the nations of the european union .
your great experience will prove invaluable in this .
madam president , with great respect , let me mention your important visit to palestine and to the legislative council .
however , despite the divine blessing , this land has undergone many conflicts throughout history .
the twentieth century , which saw the tragedy of the jewish people in europe , has also borne witness to the tragedy of the palestinian people in their own country , when the rest of the world started to look for a solution to europe ' s jewish problem in the land of palestine .
the jewish state was declared on 15 may 1948 , and was immediately recognised by the countries of the west , led by the countries of europe and the united states , who granted this state all the necessary support while the palestinian people continued to endure every form of privation , emigration , the enforced displacement of persons , and the lack of their own country , their own identity or their own state .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the conflicts and the wars in our region have wrought havoc , causing destruction , desolation and enormous losses in human and material terms .
throughout the second half of the twentieth century , the region experienced many wars and confrontations which caused death and destruction everywhere , reducing the region ' s economies to war economies , undermining development operations in many countries and causing scientific and cultural backwardness in others .
following the major problems related to israel ' s isolation from its neighbours , the permanent state of alert related to the state of war in the region and the harsh suffering of the palestinian people remaining on palestinian territory or becoming refugees abroad or in the camps , it was essential to take the initiative of finding an alternative to war and bloody conflict .
the peace process was launched in madrid in 1991 .
we took part in this process , driven by our sincere determination to arrive at a just peace throughout the region in general and between palestinians and israelis in particular .
this process is based on resolutions 242 and 338 of the united nations security council , which stipulate the inadmissibility of acquiring alien territories by force .
it is also based on the search for a fair solution to the refugee problem and on the principle of territories in exchange for peace .
the washington talks and , similarly , those which took place in oslo , led to an agreement in the form of a declaration of principles , the oslo accords .
the plo exchanged mutual recognition documents with the israeli government , in what was in my view the most significant phase in the history of the arab-israeli conflict in general and the palestinian-israeli conflict in particular .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the declaration of principles for the transitional period and for the talks on permanent status was drawn up on the basis of a defined philosophy and clear political principles , particularly un security council resolutions 242 and 338 and their implementation , the territories in exchange for peace and a timetable for the negotiations on the permanent status .
during this phase , presidential and legislative elections would take place in the west bank , in the gaza strip and the arabic city of jerusalem , al-quds .
all this was to be achieved in less than five years , by 4 may 1999 , and to be crowned by the creation of an independent palestinian state .
we accepted these accords and complied with their implementation , but unfortunately we encountered serious problems , and faced continuous attempts to break the agreements and to reject what had been agreed , and also non-compliance with the agreed schedule , particularly the third-phase troop redeployment , the withdrawal from the occupied territories and the release of all prisoners and detainees , which was supposed to be completed by the end of the interim period , on 4 may 1999 .
so many elements relating to the transitional period have still not been implemented , despite the long period of time which has elapsed , increasing the suffering of the palestinian people and jeopardising the entire peace process .
i had the opportunity to lead negotiations with the israeli government over the last eight years , from the initial oslo negotiations up to the stockholm negotiations which prepared the way for the recent camp david summit , via the second oslo negotiations , the economic negotiations in paris and the negotiations preparatory to the wye river agreement .
for several months we have been engaged in talks to establish permanent status , even before israel has completed its commitments under the interim period .
i am also very regretful and sorry that the camp david summit did not have a successful outcome , especially since it came eight months after strenuous negotiations in the region , but also in stockholm , in sweden , and in washington , and followed the considerable efforts made by president clinton and his colleagues .
fourthly , agreement on each of the key issues , either in a framework agreement or in the definitive agreement , must include these three important principles : firstly , recognition of the principle , secondly , recognition of the mechanisms implementing the principle , thirdly , agreement on the time limit for the execution thereof .
although both parties , palestinians and israelis , made considerable efforts to reconcile their positions , both during the talks or during the camp david summit , i must regretfully inform you that there is still a great gulf and that it will still take a lot to bridge that gulf .
israel must recognise palestinian sovereignty of jerusalem and , in return , we are willing to discuss any israeli concerns about the city , whether regarding jerusalem as an open city , or about freedom of worship and freedom of movement within jerusalem , or any other israeli concerns .
you will be aware that the united nations organisation , the security council , adopted resolution 181 to make this holy city the city of the three monotheistic religions , the city of those that believe in one god , and decided that jerusalem would be an international city which belonged to all the nations of the world .
otherwise , any solution would be truncated or incomplete .
the palestinian position in this respect is based on international resolutions on the right of palestinian refugees to return to their homes and to their property , and their right to compensation in accordance with resolution 194 of the general assembly of the united nations , and on the determination of procedures , obtained following agreements , enabling them to exercise their right to return .
in addition , these resolutions call for the withdrawal of the israeli occupation forces from palestinian territory occupied since the june 1967 war , for the 4 june border effective before the outbreak of hostilities to be respected .
this is a further factor in maintaining the division between the two parties on this subject .
i should like to address my friend and colleague , avraham burg , to say that israel was created on the basis of a security council resolution and not on the basis of a precept in the torah .
consequently , if we do not respect international legitimacy , the international community will suffer from the failure of a solution to the middle east conflict .
ladies and gentlemen , the overwhelming majority of countries , including the european union , have recognised the international resolutions that the palestinian solution is based on .
that it the situation up to and after camp david .
we do , however , want a peace that is just , and a peace that we can defend and safeguard , a lasting peace for our children , our grandchildren and all future generations .
at this time , speaking from the rostrum of the european parliament , sharing our problems and our future prospects , we can only express our considerable appreciation for the euro-mediterranean cooperation which is starting to gain ground thanks to the consolidation of economic , social , political , cultural and parliamentary relations , with a view to responding to the interests of the nations of this region .
we consider this collaboration , which benefits from your contribution , to be one of the main pillars of peace , stability and prosperity .
it is also our pleasure to express our high regard for europe ' s political and economic support for the peace plan in the region in general , and for the palestinian people in particular , and also our appreciation of europe ' s increasing role in consolidating world peace and pushing forward the peace process in our region and throughout the world .
we are very appreciative , for example , of the position which the countries of the european union adopted at the time of the berlin declaration in march 1999 .
europe has always had an important role to play throughout the world .
we welcome its involvement in the middle east peace process .
having abandoned its colonial heritage , the unified europe must now play a part which is in keeping with the tradition of its culture and civilisation , calling for the principles of freedom , emancipation and human rights in a free and independent country .
from this rostrum , i would also like to address my own people , the palestinian people , to say that peace is a great battle which awaits us .
i would like to share with you a different kind of optimism , an optimism which says that tomorrow will be even better than today and today was a perfect morning .
on behalf of so many of us in the middle east , especially so many of us in israel , i should like to thank you for your efforts and the efforts of the entire distinguished gathering here this morning to push forward dialogue , understanding , and the process of listening to each other in the middle east .
i have no problem with that , but would ask only one thing , namely that you should chair it .
a meeting such as the one we are having here on the very day that the leaders of our peoples are meeting each other again in the united states of america , trying to promote another step , one more centimetre towards a better future for our children , is a crucial moment .
not only do the leaders of our nations have the responsibility of making peace , but we , as elected representatives of our people , also bear the burden of responsibility for trying to enhance the people-to-people relationship in such a way that eventually , when peace is signed between the two sides , the people will be ready to accept the message .
more than this , for many of us in israel , europe is not just a continent .
for many of us in israel europe is a value system .
for many of us in israel europe is something wider than its worldly presence .
europe for us is responsibility for the environment .
so when we are negotiating peace in the middle east , we feel every day that we are not just doing what is good for our people , but we try harder and double our efforts because we have a sense of responsibility to the extent that the stability of our region is the key to the stability of the rest of the world .
the middle east is the key to the stability of the world .
both of us , for all our disagreements , are fully committed to a peaceful middle east for our own sake and the sake of our children and the rest of the world . ( applause ) it is a very personal privilege for me to share this very important european podium this morning with abu ala .
he is the man to whom my children and the children of his people owe so much on account of his courage , creativity , devotion and commitment to change the strategy of the middle east from a strategy of conflict to a strategy of dialogue , understanding and acceptance of the other .
i would like , abu ala , to tell you what i told you when you came as my guest to the knesset , when i met you at my home - i hope that i shall not do you any political damage back home by mentioning these things - and in all other places where we have met , namely that the middle east of our generation is privileged to have a great man like you leading your people . ( applause ) i feel very pleased to be here with you this morning .
coming to this house after you passed the resolution on the memory of the holocaust , first mooted in stockholm and eventually embraced by the majority in this house ; the kind of help you are giving openly and secretly , to jews in need in distressed areas around the world ; and of course your unequivocal commitment to peace encompassing various interpretations and schools of thought : all these things make me feel happy to be here this morning .
in 1948 there were seven arab parties engaged against the newly born state of israel .
in 1967 only three out of the seven - egypt , jordan and syria - fought against us .
in 1973 only two out of the three - syria and egypt - were against us .
the palestinians did not fight against us as a nation in 1948 or join the struggle against us as a belligerent in 1963 , but all of a sudden - and unbelievably - we now find ourselves in the middle of negotiations .
and this will happen because of this kind of partnership and because our people and their people in the middle east understand where the modern world is going .
all of us come from the political arena , and you know as well as i do that in politics there is no such thing as good timing .
because abu ala yes , international law is very important .
but this is what i have tried to do , in my commitment to this region of the world , to the monotheistic idea , to the dialogue between religions , all because sometime in history , the founding father of my nation , abraham , after whom i am named , came up with the concept that there is one god .
thank god , this one god is represented by five parties in our knesset today , but that is a different story . ( laughter ) therefore , when we are seeking practical political solutions , we have to understand that these are solutions for historical problems and people 's faith and beliefs .
practically , we have never been so close to each other , but what do we know about the icons , the symbols , the things that have been there for so many years ?
i would like to say something briefly about the way we see jerusalem .
we need to find a political compromise but also a religious compromise . ( applause ) i have a feeling that the challenge of jerusalem is the biggest political challenge ever witnessed .
king hussein 's idea was presented to all our leaders and i am pleased to say that the sides have not rejected the idea .
i do not want peace in the middle east to be a win-lose situation .
i would like to see a palestinian state declared on a basis of understanding and mutual acceptance and consent between the two sides , with israel the first to recognise it in the international community .
that is what i wanted for many years before it became the official policy , not policy , the official mood in my country .
i have no problem with the palestinian state or abu ala .
on the contrary , as soon as we have a palestinian state , the dialogue between us will be a dialogue between equals .
any issues that are not resolved now , we can deal with later on and continue the dialogue between us .
i know that many of the issues were resolved at camp david but there are other issues that i hope we can solve .
personally , of course , i admire him , although he does not admire me and rightly so , but the two of us can play a role in the regions .
the palestinians have not yet had the chance to develop their own independent economy .
we would like to see europe and the rest of the world helping both of us to improve the economic level of the region so that there is a balance between the two economies .
this will prevent frustration in the relationship between the two states and the individuals within those societies will not despair and take refuge in religious fundamentalism .
my father , who at the time was 80 years old , was in the back seat .
in his 40 years as a member of the knesset he served in every cabinet in israel and he was the head of the israeli-egyptian team that negotiated autonomy for the palestinians .
my father was born in dresden and lost his entire family in the holocaust .
it is with me day in and day out and i believe there will be peace , not in my son 's generation but in the generation of abu ala and myself : a permanent , solid , good peace for the betterment of the world . ( loud and sustained applause ) ladies and gentlemen , it is my sincere opinion that we have just witnessed a very moving moment that will , perhaps , one day be seen as a historic moment .
when he met you , the norwegian negotiators introduced you as ' enemy number one ' , and yet after the very tough negotiations , you went to visit him in tel aviv , and you went for a walk on the sea front , he says , away from all the media pressure , and , ahead of the thinking of the time , discussed how , after the historic breakthrough in oslo , you might establish a sustainable and equitable peace , as you have said .
you have clearly understood that you will have the european parliament at your side , and that is why you are here today .
i remind you that greece , as well as germany and france , are countries that belong to the schengen area .
the danish people have a right to know in advance of the referendum on 28 september where the " no " campaign funds have come from .
i would like to commend the european commission on what is an extremely well argued and well presented report , drawn up in record time considering the relative lack of resources of the departments concerned and the demands laid down at the european council in tampere last year .
the commission has come forward with an excellent draft directive which will permit third-country nationals legally resident in a member state of the union to reside in another member state as is required if a true area of freedom , security and justice is to be established .
the commission has said , quite rightly in my view , that the goal of zero immigration mentioned in past community discussion was never realistic and sought instead to put forward realistic proposals for the protection of the rights of third-country nationals in accordance with the many international treaties that have been signed by member states , such as the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenants of 1966 on civil and political rights and on economic and social rights .
the importance of the family as a unit is also recognised and the importance of making a success of the integration of third-country nationals residing lawfully in eu member states is the whole basis of these proposals .
the commission proposal quite clearly recognises the difference of legal treatment between descending and ascending relatives .
it is evident that , in the context of the international legal framework , mention must be made of the un convention on the rights of the child .
there is no similar convention dealing with ascending relatives , but it is clearly the case that if we wish to live up to our humanitarian ideals we must provide the opportunity for third-country nationals to bring dependent relatives in the ascending line into their family units .
this has been a matter of some debate within the committee .
i am pleased to see that a number of amendments to the final report have been put forward ; in particular amendments nos 18 to 23 , which propose a compromise on this matter .
amendment no 6 recognises the very real problems that the administrations of the member states currently have with the workload created by the demands of family reunification .
amendment no 9 allows each member state to introduce more favourable provisions than those set down in the directives , and insists that these new rules will not lower current standards of protection .
amendment no 11 deals with the grounds on which a member state may deny the right of entry to a relative , namely on grounds of public policy , domestic security and public health .
parliament had relatively little time to look at it and inevitably not all of the compromises which were necessary to reach a favourable outcome were achieved in committee .
mr president , my task as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market was a relatively easy one compared with that of the honourable members in the committee responsible , and i would like to congratulate them all on the outcome , even if we do have to discuss a few compromise amendments in plenary today .
i would also like to say how impressed i am with the logistical quality of the draft directive , which certainly cannot be said of all the commission ' s draft directives .
pursuant to the new article 63 of the eu treaty , it is now the community ' s task to settle the matter of family reunification , and the community must take these measures in accordance with the provisions of international law , in particular the european convention of human rights and the other instruments of international law already mentioned by our committee chairman .
the right to respect for family life is a universal human right .
this particularly applies to the right of eu citizens themselves to live together in their home land with family members originating from a third country and not to be in the position where the only way they can live with them as a family is to avail themselves of freedom of movement and settle in another member states .
the commission has put forward the first draft of a legislative initiative in this field , which concerns the right to family reunification .
the commission lumps economically motivated immigration and asylum together .
another problem with the present draft directive concerns the widening of the definition of family .
it is not right to bring people to a foreign country without making the necessary provisions for foreign nationals and local people to live together in peace and friendship .
we must clarify today in this parliament whether we want the immigrants and refugees who live amongst us to do so legally with their families , giving them the opportunity to live a normal life and to integrate fully into our society , or whether we are going to continue to feed the myth that they are provisional co-citizens whose final destiny is to return to the hypothetical homes they came from .
this issue is so important that we must make an effort to reach a consensus .
i would like us today to send a message to the people who live amongst us that they can do so with their right to live as a family recognised .
we have also applied these rules we are debating to people who are under alternative protection .
mr president , the eldr group is backing this report as one of the essential building blocks in constructing the area of freedom , security and justice and in following up the tampere summit , which rightly made it a priority to establish rights of free movement for legally resident third-country nationals .
to take up some specific points in the report , first of all on the inclusion of beneficiaries of subsidiary protection .
the eldr group would regret that because we think that , like refugees , beneficiaries of subsidiary protection should be in .
on ascending relatives , we consider that amendment no 20 is superfluous because there is a general right in article 9 of the proposal to apply a non-discriminatory means test to all entrants .
the proposal will not force member states to give legal recognition to unmarried partnerships , but if they do they must treat unmarried partners like spouses .
mr president , we are going to vote on a report today that has caused a political stir in certain eu states .
the commission and commissioner vitorino have done some sterling work here , and i would like , on behalf of my group , to take the opportunity to thank them for it .
sadly there were , and still are , reservations against including refugees benefiting from temporary protection in this directive , and against recognising same-sex relationships as the basis for family reunification .
this debate demonstrates once again that , unfortunately , integration and migration policy is still a controversial issue in the european union .
i regret this decision , and the fact that ministers for home affairs appear to carry more weight in this parliament than the honourable members , who are expected to act according to their consciences .
in dealing in depth with the issue of the right to live as a family , and in defining the precise conditions for its application , the text enables us to hold a real debate .
far from casting suspicion a priori , as is often the case , on those who wish to live with their spouses and children , the text recognises the legitimacy of such a right even if , in fact , this right must now apply equally to homosexual couples and to all other categories , as the honourable member has just said , especially in the case of asylum seekers .
the text also takes into account that nowadays there are several types of families in our society , especially certain forms of cohabitation , and that we cannot therefore discriminate against immigrants who live in the same way .
we must also recognise that the waves of immigrants towards the countries of the european union have been more or less constant for a couple of decades .
in other words , by implementing restrictive laws , member states have not succeeded in reducing the overall number of entrants ; they have simply reduced the number of legal immigrants while increasing the numbers of illegal immigrants by declaring them illegal .
by underpinning these values , this draft directive will not only have positive consequences for immigrants and their families , but it will also be a symbol for refuge and integration .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the text that has been presented to us , and in fact the entire immigration policy that is being pursued by european institutions , exhibits a worrying trend .
what were initially nothing more than a temporary work contracts are tending to turn into permanent residence .
the only solution worthy of the name is to organise family reunification but to organise it in the country of origin with the support of the policy of cooperation to which end these methods should be employed .
i am sorry that the committee has behaved in this way , because i believe a sledgehammer approach does the cause more harm than good , particularly in an area as sensitive as this .
we have no intention of voting for this document unless it includes our amendments and follows our political line . ( applause from the right ) mr president , after the recent events in dover , when 29 illegal chinese immigrants suffocated to death , the tragedy of illegal immigration and the methods of responding to it have become a considerable problem , which the european union must definitely tackle .
what is more , this right has long existed in the form of article 8 of the european convention on human rights , according to which all persons have the right to family life .
as has already been said , this directive is the first example of this type of structure resulting from the treaty of amsterdam and the tampere european council , which is why it is so important .
the directive proposed by the commission enables us to take a major step forward , under conditions that are entirely satisfactory , but with all the necessary guarantees .
let us remember that this is the first text in the process of integrating the ' justice and internal affairs ' pillar into community policy in the wake of the treaty of amsterdam and the tampere european council last november .
mr president , i am of the firm opinion that this draft directive is a major step forward .
the laws in force provide for the right of residence to be revoked if there is a break-up in the matrimonial household , effectively outlawing divorce , and , as has just been said , homosexual couples are still not recognised .
no one would dispute the fact that families have the right to live together .
that is the crucial problem we face with this directive .
mr president , i would like to begin by warmly congratulating the european commission and especially commissioner vitorino , on its extremely constructive legislative proposal on the issue of family reunification .
at last , europe is on the move , after decades of zero immigration and , more especially , after so many years of refusal by europeans to grant third-country nationals residing lawfully in the european union their fundamental human rights .
recognising the right to family life is one of the basic conditions for the integration of refugees and migrants in the social life of the country in which they reside .
yet i would like to say that i understand the qualms of many governments , including my own , concerning this draft directive .
indeed , countries such as germany , where millions of refugees and migrants have sought refuge , are shouldering an enormous burden .
but at the same time i would like to point out and to highlight the enormous contribution that refugees and migrants make to the economic development of our countries , through their work and through taxation .
commissioner vitorino , although i hold you in high regard - and have said as much on many occasions in this house - the commission document itself is shot through with negligent ignorance as to the situation in the very member states that have been generous enough to accord large numbers of refugees and asylum seekers the right to protection and hospitality over the past few years .
you ask too much of our society , and in so doing , run the risk of creating a breeding ground for something that we have always fought against in this house .
the liberal and social democrat delegates from the large member states - because so far today , i have only heard speakers of this political persuasion from the small member states - must ask themselves whether they are remotely in touch with the electorate , whether they are aware of the consequences , and whether they have grasped that more authority for parliament in these matters would also bring increased responsibility .
it gives free rein to all kinds of interpretations .
there is only one thing we can do here , and that is reject this proposal .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , this is the first time since the treaty of amsterdam entered into force that the european parliament has been consulted on a commission proposal for a council directive on the matter of the lawful immigration of persons originating from third countries .
the commission has decided that a proposal on family reunification should start us off on this journey , this considerable effort to construct a common european immigration policy .
i believe family reunification is a concept that is thoroughly coherent with the commitments that all the member states undertook several decades ago in the sphere of international law .
from the reference to the universal declaration of human rights to the international convenants made under the united nations in 1966 , to the european convention on human rights itself - in all these instruments of international law family protection is upheld as an essential factor for ensuring social peace .
i do not believe anybody can deny that family reunification is also an important instrument for the integration of immigrants from third countries into their host societies .
it must also be recognised that family reunification is significant in numerical terms because it is today one of the main causes of immigration into the countries of europe .
those who refuse to see that this directive aims at setting up legal rules to respond to a situation that already exists on the ground and try to blame the commission for inventing a new flow of migrants are therefore being unfair in their analysis of the actual situation that we are addressing .
this is that family reunification is a factor which promotes the personal stability of the immigrant , since family life is always an important instrument for integration into the host country .
the heads of state and government at tampere in fact unanimously stressed the need to ensure equitable treatment for third-country nationals who are lawfully resident in the member states of the union .
instead it is a right subject to conditions , whether procedural in nature or material conditions regarding the definition of the status of the family members in the country to which they have been admitted and regarding the rights that they enjoy .
for our part , we are also willing to introduce an amended proposal as quickly as possible so that we can achieve a positive outcome during the french presidency .
i should like to thank all the members who have taken part in the debate .
it is therefore natural that it should be a lively , even passionate debate , and one in which there are divergent views .
i should like to explain to you all what the commission ' s position is on the more difficult political issues in this directive .
i accept , however , that it is necessary to exclude the beneficiaries of temporary protection or subsidiary protection .
i am convinced that a certain kind of beneficiary of temporary or subsidiary protection should also have the right to family reunification .
i do recognise , however , that the lack of harmonisation of this concept at european level and especially the commission ' s intention to submit a directive on temporary and subsidiary protection to parliament and the council next year will allow us to deal with the right to family reunification in that directive very soon .
we therefore accept an amendment to the proposal excluding beneficiaries of temporary or subsidiary protection .
where issues relating to the concept of the family are concerned , i should like to make it very clear that in this proposal the commission is not interfering in the matter of defining the concept of the family .
this proposal does not say that all the member states will be obliged to recognise unmarried partnerships and accept unmarried partners under all circumstances .
we are simply saying that in those countries where unmarried partnerships are placed on an equal footing with marriage in domestic law for their own nationals , these unmarried partnerships must also be recognised for the purpose of family reunification for third-country nationals .
i should therefore like to state clearly that there is nothing in this proposal favouring family reunification for polygamous marriages .
but how could you explain treating the children of a second polygamous marriage differently from the children of a first marriage or the children of an unmarried partnership ?
finally , mr president , the commission is willing to accept a number of other amendments and other modifications regarding the rights of family members , the conditions and clarification of the conditions for family reunification , the situation in which the person being reunited may acquire independent status , and concerning procedural rules .
i should like the final opinion of parliament to have as broad a support-base as possible .
the debate is closed .
this is in my view the crux of the problem described in my report and will determine the way we vote .
today , for the majority of us who live in europe , european citizenship is still a concept that is devoid of meaning .
if we want europe to be more than a vast free trade area , we must take action to ensure that european citizenship goes beyond the status of a concept and takes root in the everyday life of the citizens of europe .
the directives that have been examined concern community nationals , but they must be modified in favour of third-county nationals .
although member states have made great progress in ensuring the free movement of goods , services and capital , it is clear that we are no nearer to achieving the same for people .
in june 1990 , the council adopted three commission draft directives to extend this right to all member state nationals , even if they were not economically active .
the transposition of these directives was doubly problematic .
because the acceptance procedures are long and difficult , it is often necessary to take out a second health insurance in the host country .
finally , administrative procedures are too long - more than six months - and become very costly when frequent renewal is necessary , as the period of validity is normally two years rather than five .
i will now present the main measures advocated with a view to overcoming these problems .
it will still be possible at a later date to implement a whole raft of specific measures to help citizens depending on their particular situation .
this reworking of the existing directives must dissociate the fundamental right of movement and residence from any economic considerations .
until these mechanisms can be put in place , a transitional measure may be to introduce a one-year residence permit for all applicants .
third-country citizens living and working legally in a member state must benefit from the same rights as european citizens .
furthermore , it is a pity that the council has not followed up this proposal of citizenship and residence .
the treaty statement that every citizen should have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of member states and the reality are still far apart .
they received a standard letter from our local social security office asking them to attend for a two-hour interview and to bring with them as many items as possible on a non-exhaustive list of about twenty documents such as a passport , bank statements , or household bills to " establish their identity . "
the committee on petitions was asked to submit an opinion because it is a special committee that is directly concerned with the problems facing the general public .
we are constantly hearing of cases where eu citizens are unable to reside in another member state .
therefore , let us urge the eu member states to implement the existing community law provisions without delay , before we consider extending these rights to third-country nationals at any rate .
for example , section 20 of the resolution extends family reunification to non-community families and their relatives in ascending and descending lines , who are not dependent on the resident , which would increase admission without restrictions .
furthermore , i believe that all the false logic which is used when referring to migrant workers has no place in this debate , not so much because of the subject matter but rather because it is not appropriate for the study of these directives .
in order to facilitate their mobility , we should free them of unnecessary costs and make their residence compatible with their periods of study or apprenticeship .
finally , i would also like to point out that it makes no sense to link public order , as section 6 of the resolution does , with the schengen area in a proposal aimed at the citizens of the european union , who are not governed by the schengen legislation but by community directives , in particular those relating to public order .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , allow me to begin by thanking the european commission for its sustained efforts in keeping the right of residence - within the context of the free movement of persons in europe - high on the agenda ; this is once again borne out by these two communications on the right of residence .
secondly , i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report .
she has opted for a broad approach , mr hernandez mollar , and her report covers right of residence for all citizens , including the economically active and those from third countries , topics which are , in fact , covered by proposals already submitted .
my group supports this approach because , despite all initiatives from the commission , despite the veil report , despite the action programme and despite the legislative initiatives , the proposals remain on the council table with very little happening to them .
firstly , it has become apparent recently that the european labour market is relying increasingly on mobility ; an ever dwindling number of companies manage to fill their vacancies .
whether they choose to live together , and whether they are single , gay or lesbian , they should also be able to claim right of residence in those countries where these types of relationship are recognised ; if not , we would be denying thousands of people the right to live in families .
we therefore give this report by mrs boumediene-thiery our unconditional support .
mr president , there has thankfully been a change in european community law over the last 30 years from freedom of movement of persons being seen as purely an economic issue - functional mobility - to it being seen as a personal right .
but the real bottom line for liberals is whether the member states believe in and respect the notion of european citizenship , not only allowing the citizens of a member state and their families to move around but also conferring such rights , to the greatest extent possible , on legally resident third-country nationals and their families - which unfortunately were not covered by the commission report .
this banishment violates the principle of equality before the law that is enshrined in article 7 of the universal declaration of human rights .
finally , it is important to facilitate the granting and renewal of permanent residence permits , as a residence permit of very brief duration leads to employment of very brief duration , discrimination and exploitation .
finally , the time has come to promote a european citizenship that is based on residence .
the right to vote must be extended to non-community nationals if we want to get rid of xenophobia and racism in europe .
mr president , as the rapporteurs who have just spoken said , although the right to free movement is deemed to be one of the most important aspects of the fundamental right of european citizenship , it is a right which is all too often subject to restrictions , and the large number of petitions to the european parliament on precisely this subject are testimony to this .
i would first of all like to focus on a point strongly emphasised in the report : the need to fight against all abusive and excessively restrictive interpretations of the concept of public policy by some member states .
for example , someone who has lived in a country since childhood or , at any rate , for a large number of years , and therefore has cultural , social and family ties in that country , should not be deported unless he or she is convicted of a crime which is deemed to be , in effect , a serious offence , under the criminal law of the country of residence .
sadly , this is very often not the case .
it is therefore all the more extraordinary that 50 years after the signing of the convention of human rights , which ironically was signed in rome , and one year after the treaty of amsterdam upholding such rights , that one european family , which for a thousand years has been involved with the continent 's history , is being denied the fundamental rights my colleague has mentioned .
the watson report demands such rights for family reunion and the boumediene-thiery report for freedom of movement and residence , even for third-country nationals and even for convicted criminals .
this issue goes far beyond individual families and goes right to the heart of the union 's respect for its own laws and treaties .
firstly the commission has failed to deal with the issue of the 12 to 14 million third-country nationals living legally in the union who currently suffer discrimination and , outside the union 's island states can move freely de facto but cannot do so legally , which of course creates situations in which they are exploited and used in illegal ways .
with all due respect for the rapporteur , i have to say that we also have a problem with a number of areas that she has not dealt with , one of which is the issue of football hooliganism .
i am generally in favour of free movement but i think it needs to be limited .
europol should be used to prevent the free movement of people who have been convicted of football-related crimes to ensure that they do not cause the same kind of trouble as at previous world cup and european championship tournaments .
i hope that the danish government will use the provisions in this instance .
i naturally hope that the free movement of people who have the misfortune to be hiv-positive is not restricted in any way on grounds of public health .
we might say that this right contributes towards a practical and concrete expression of the concept of european citizenship , in that the great challenge facing us at the moment is to turn this legally recognised right into a practical reality that is implemented in citizens ' everyday lives .
i also agree with those who have pointed out that the transposition of these directives has taken place too slowly , or even incorrectly in some cases .
in addition , we must also face up to the difficulties arising out of implementation of the directive on special measures concerning the movement and residence of citizens of the union which are justified on grounds of public policy , public security or public health , in that there should be guidelines not only for the member states , which have so far interpreted the provisions of the directive in quite a variety of ways , but also for the citizens regarding the rights conferred on them .
the member states may impose restrictions on the right to free movement of community citizens , particularly in matters of entry to and expulsion from their territory as well as the issuing or renewal of residence permits , where this is justified on grounds of public policy , public security or public health .
member states cannot , however , abuse such prerogatives in a european union based on the rule of law , respect for human rights and particularly respect for the european convention on human rights as well as , soon , a charter of fundamental rights .
personally , in tabling amendment no 15 , i support the pensioners , for although the measure facilitates the movement of non-eu citizens , it does not remove the difficulties facing its own citizens , particularly its disabled citizens , who wish to travel within europe .
therefore , our goal must be to bring about the free movement of pensioners and disabled citizens in europe .
indeed , i think that , for the commission , the establishment of european citizenship has created a new legal and political environment and , for our part , we intend to draw all the practical lessons we can both in the legislative field and in the field of day-to-day public administration .
with regard to the motion for a resolution that you have just presented , i would simply like to address two or three comments directed at the commission .
the three directives on the right of residence of the non-economically active have , i am sure , enabled thousands of european union citizens to benefit from this right without encountering any particular problems .
the action of the commission also applies to the laws of member states .
one could , in my view , cite several cases where this intervention has brought about modification of the legislation of member states and sometimes even the examination , by the court of justice , of issues to which it has provided positive solutions .
moreover , i would like to draw your attention to the fact that this morning we debated the directive on family reunification and that the tampere conclusions require the commission to present a proposal on the recognition of entry , admission and residence conditions and on the legal status of third-country nationals within the european union legally .
for all these reasons , the commission shares the opinion expressed by several members of this house on the need for a global reworking of existing texts within the context of a single legal instrument , which will organise and guarantee the unimpeded exercise of the freedom of movement and residence .
the unique status of a european union citizen necessarily creates the need for a unique general system of movement and residence in response to the demand to enrich the content of european citizenship in accordance with the political aspirations of the union .
this draft directive concerns strategic environmental assessments which , in brief , involve a systematic process for identifying , analysing and assessing the influence and likely effects of plans and programmes upon the environment .
parliament tabled 29 amendments , of which 15 are more or less to be found in the common position .
nor can we accept that financial plans and the whole of the defence sector are exempt from strategic environmental assessments .
amendments 11 and 31 also worry me a little .
mr president , this is a small but significant measure to extend the duties of member states to carry out strategic environmental assessments on the planning framework as well as on the actual plans where the implementation would or could have a significant impact on the environment .
all member states voted for the common position , but some made it clear that they would go very little further than that .
we will however be rejecting some of her amendments , notably those that seek to extend the system to all financial plans , to defence and civil defence , to consultation beyond what is reasonable and to the general policies she has just mentioned , which become more of a wish-list than firm proposals .
however , we agree that it makes no sense to exclude projects financed wholly or partially by the european union , especially structural funds , and we certainly agree that it makes sense to talk to neighbouring states outside the european union .
we also of course have to consider amendment no 26 , in the name of some of our german colleagues , which rejects the common position .
we believe that to be a good thing and my ppe-de group will therefore not be supporting amendment no 26 and will vote for the common position .
we shall then vote for the amendments we supported in committee and for one further clarifying amendment which has been submitted since , but we shall oppose the amendments which we believe are a step too far in terms of what is desirable , practical and acceptable .
mr president , the directive we are about to vote on represents a major step forwards .
the amendments approved by the committee on the environment substantially improve the council 's common position .
in this context , i feel that plans and projects financed from the structural funds must without exception be governed by the directive , seeing that , in practice , they represent all the programmes implemented , particularly in regions whose development is lagging behind .
it is unreasonable to do what is at present done with eu funds and to support such activities within these sectors as are opposed from an environmental point of view in other contexts .
we are basically in favour of the proposal of the environment committee and its rapporteur .
there is a directive on the right to information , no 313 , which has been repeatedly ignored by the member states and by local and regional authorities .
likewise , we must include the quality of the studies and the issue of health amongst the significant sectors affected .
mr president , i welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this debate and in so doing acknowledge the positive role of parliament in setting the agenda for the highest standards of environmental protection .
there is of course a cost factor in environmental management , but equally an economic return , which not easily quantified but exists none the less .
the proposed directive , which requires an environmental assessment before the adoption of a regional or county plan , makes good environmental and economic sense .
finally , i would appeal to professional planners to use their common sense by taking account of the views of public representatives and community groups .
mr president , strategic environmental impact assessment is an instrument which allows governments to assess whether policy proposals , plans and programmes are compatible with the concept of sustainable development .
in that case , a public administration may decide to scrap a plan , programme or proposal , call these off in good time or replace them by environmentally-friendly alternatives .
mr president , the best way to integrate environmental issues with all areas of policy is to get the environmental perspective in the picture at the earliest possible stage .
in this connection i have to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , this is a new instrument and it accords with article 6 of the treaty of amsterdam , which concerns the integration of environmental policies into other areas .
accordingly , guido sacconi ' s amendment no 31 has my unequivocal support .
mr president , i would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for her constructive approach and for being open to dialogue with all the interested parties - including the commission - which i hope will finally enable us all to achieve a positive result in relation to this directive .
the joint position clearly distinguishes the plans for which the strategic environmental assessment is obligatory from those for which it is necessary to make a selection , a screening .
firstly , there must be a balance between the plans for which the strategic environmental assessment is obligatory and those for which we have to make a selection .
secondly , the scope of the directive must , in any event , be sufficiently broad and systematically include those plans which have a significant impact on the environment .
nevertheless , we believe that some amendments go too far and propose the strategic environmental assessment for plans which will not probably have a significant impact on the environment .
certain amendments would reduce the scope , such as amendment no 3 , which limits the scope to the plans financed by the eu , or amendments nos 11 and 31 , which allow states to choose the level or levels of planning with which these strategic environmental assessments will be carried out .
now , if parliament were to adopt these amendments together with those which broaden the scope to plans with no significant impact , it seems to me that we would end up with a text which is inconsistent with itself .
in my view , this fear is not sufficiently justified .
the carrying out of assessments at various levels of planning is not a duplication of the assessment , especially given the safeguards contained in articles 4 , 5 and 10 of the joint position which are intended to prevent just the kind of duplication which mr lange , for example , referred to .
we therefore believe that , by incorporating the provisions on the screening and the definition of the scope into their national legislation , member states would be liable to exceed the requirements of the directive and , for that reason , we will not accept these amendments .
i do not believe it is necessary to point out that this directive on the strategic environmental assessment is a key instrument for integrating the environment into policies and for promoting sustainable development in the european union .
mr president , having carefully examined all the amendments , i can tell you that the commission can accept amendments nos 1 , 5 ( sections 2 and 5 ) , 6 , 12 , 28 ( section 1 ) and 29 .
amendments nos 9 ( the part which refers to the requirement to justify that the strategic environmental assessment is not necessary ) , 10 ( sections 1 and 2 ) , 15 , 17 , 18 , 20 , 23 , 24 and 25 are acceptable in principle , providing that there is some rewording of its content .
the commission cannot , however , under any circumstances , accept amendments nos 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ( sections 1 , 3 and 4 ) , 7 , 8 , 9 ( in the part on the requirement to justify the need for a strategic environmental assessment ) , 10 ( section 3 ) , 11 , 13 , 14 , 16 , 19 , 21 , 22 , 26 , 27 , 28 ( section 2 ) , 30 and 31 .
thank you very much , commissioner .
a recent study by kimo coast watch has shown , for example , that there is still a growing volume of waste on beaches , that the sea is still being polluted and that state-of-the-art technology is being used to discharge sludge into the sea .
this was the reason why the commission was right to come up with a directive which was the subject of conciliation not so long ago .
small ports will need to make a considerable effort to accommodate this directive in the foreseeable future .
the significance of the directive resides first and foremost in the fact that all member states will be obliged to ensure that port reception facilities are set up , within the next two years , in all ports subject to this requirement .
secondly , as my honourable friend has already said , we have scored two other victories for marine protection and the citizens of the european union .
mr president , and i would have been very surprised if you had not been the one to chair this sitting again .
after all , it is a good day for europe ' s seas , as it for you personally , mr president , because i know you are a keen diver .
we would all be delighted if you had even cleaner waters to dive in in europe .
nevertheless , the 30 % introduces and establishes the principle of a ' no special fee system ' .
thirdly , all member states must carry out checks on at least 25 % of shipping .
so it is a good day for europe ' s seas and also a good day for you , mr president .
the conditions for the delivery of waste by ships at community ports have been the topic of many a discussion .
mr president , vice-president of the commission , this is perhaps the first time i have addressed the european parliament without having to express any worries or concerns about the subject of the debate .
it is a step forward .
i hope that this tradition will change under the french presidency .
in any event , we are all in favour of better cooperation and the speedier progress of the work of the council , the commission and the european parliament .
mr president , as a new member of the european parliament and as a permanent member of the conciliation committee for the first time , i have to say that i was satisfied with this procedure , which saw representatives of the main institutions of the european union making every effort to achieve a happy medium , that is to say , between the possible and the feasible , bearing in mind existing conditions and possibilities , which are of course not the same for all europe ' s ports .
let us not forget that the european ports in the mediterranean face competition from the ports of north africa , whereas the baltic or north sea ports do not face any competition .
the essential thing is that , by approving the joint text under debate , we will have a directive that will protect our seas and coastlines from pollution caused by ships , and we will also have enhanced the image of the european union as a standard-bearer for environmental policy and as an example for the rest of the world to follow .
mr president , first of all i should like to thank the rapporteur , mr bouwman , for his efforts over quite a long period of time in negotiating this very satisfactory proposal which will - as all colleagues have said so far - significantly reduce the amount of pollution dumped illegally into the seas around europe .
i particularly welcome the three-year review , because my only concern is that member states should implement this legislation that they have now signed up to .
mr president , i would like to start by congratulating mr bouwman on the publication of this text , which had been uncertain for a long time .
the principle of polluter pays is not working in the case in point , because the polluter cannot be identified .
if we want to settle this issue , we must move towards a universal fee system , which will be mandatory and not linked to the act of waste treatment .
i am among those who , in their capacity as french members of parliament , have made every effort to ensure that this text is published , even acting against the sympathies of their government towards this text or against its reservations .
it is clear that this text currently favours large ports and puts small ports , which are not equipped , at a disadvantage .
i therefore call on the council to help member states equip small ports , possibly in the framework of the structural funds , or in the form of some kind of loan , because small ports are also important elements of national and regional development and of regional and local economies .
and i believe that , if we provide small ports with waste treatment plants , we will secure the success of this directive .
in finland , we have had such a system for waste oil since 1 june .
mr president , the report by mr bouwman , which is the outcome of a long process , has in the interim become even more topical in france because of the shipwreck of the tanker , the erika , on the occasion of which the minister for the environment did not see fit to interrupt his holiday .
we will , however , vote for this report , because it seems to be moving towards better prevention of pollution and because , wishing to remain at a general level , it leaves member states a certain latitude in their choice of implementation tools .
during this time he has combined steadfastness with flexibility and intelligence to achieve a result which is acceptable to all the institutions and which will serve to make our seas cleaner .
i must tell you , for example , that this summer , one of the items in the news in the country i know best , spain , involved the southern coastlines being affected by the pollution resulting from oil tankers cleaning our their holds in international waters .
i believe we have made a great deal of progress which will noticeably improve the marine environment in the face of the deliberate contamination by certain ships - because not all of them do this sort of thing - of our coastlines .
the current version of this directive has the support of everybody .
it has the support of the shipowners because it provides them with waste facilities , which already exist in some european ports but unfortunately not in all of them , particularly not in the smaller ports , where the member states will have to make significant investments .
this version of the directive has the support of the ports , because it means that their investments in this type of facility will not put them at a competitive disadvantage , which has unfortunately been the case at times , since some ports have made considerable efforts and others have not .
it has the support of those sectors which are most sensitive to the problem of residues and the fight for sustainable development .
i believe that the whole of this house and also the representatives of the council and the commission are included in this group , not only the ecologists , but all those who are concerned about this type of problem .
this directive , of course , enjoys the support of the three institutions , the commission , the council and parliament , because we know that it will mean something positive for our citizens .
i would like to thank the council for its flexibility and its constructive will , and parliament also , especially the rapporteur , for the work carried out over this period and during the conciliation procedure .
if over the next three years we see that the member states ' actions are not sufficient and the desired results are not obtained , the commission reserves the right to present a new directive clearly establishing a minimum percentage which must be covered by the general fees or by an obligatory cleaning fee in the various european ports .
it is also the commission ' s responsibility to verify that that control of 25 % , another key element of this directive , is carried out by the member states .
i would like once again to thank parliament for standing firm on the need for a strengthened mechanism for reviewing the fees system , which will undoubtedly allow us to move forward and make a detailed study of the current system which we have implemented and the consequences for the environment .
mr president , it has already been said in the debates that we have suffered from the impact of the erika tragedy , but the cleaning out of holds is equivalent to more than one erika each year on europe ' s coastlines .
this does not mean that we are not going to move forward on issues relating to oil tankers and safety in the transport of polluting materials , such as oil and its derivatives , issues which we hope will not only make progress in this house and the council , but which will also be supplemented by means of additional initiatives which , as the commission has stated , will be presented shortly .
thank you very much , mrs de palacio .
they had 607 nuclear explosions in the atmosphere between 1949 and 1990 .
i understand that some members are against the directive we are going to vote on , but the vote in the committee on citizens ' freedoms was in favour of this directive by a clear majority .
this morning we held a very fruitful debate with the commissioner and i believe that , almost a year after the tampere summit , not to approve the first proposed directive on harmonisation in justice and internal affairs in the field of immigration , presented to us by the commission , would be inexplicable and there is no justification for it .
i understand that there are members who are totally against the right of immigrants to live as families , but that is not the majority position of this house , as was reflected in the committee on citizens ' freedoms .
i therefore ask that we go ahead with the vote on this commission proposal .
thank you , mrs terron i cusi .
i owe you an apology , madam president , because i suspect you do not have in front of you the view of the rapporteur on all of the different amendments .
if that is the case i would very happily , before the vote , explain to the house my position on the amendments put forward by the committee .
but as for the amendments put forward for plenary , because they have been the subject of last minute debate , i will leave all of those to the wisdom of the house .
thank you , mr watson .
you said this morning that you would endorse amendment no 19 at today ' s vote .
madam president , i have to say that the vote was conducted at such a speed that i was hard pressed to keep up with your capacity to reach a decision .
on the amendments that have been adopted , the commission has its doubts about amendment no 9 , and i believe we should reconsider our position .
as far as amendment no 19 is concerned , which has been adopted , and which seeks to keep refugees within the scope of the draft directive , but to exclude from this directive on the right to family reunification people who benefit from temporary protection or subsidiary protection , i maintain the position that i expressed before this house during the debate .
we must accept that all the groups have the right to express themselves in the house , but the text , in principle , belongs to the groups which negotiated it .
if anybody wants to attach themselves to it , they must have the agreement of all the groups which have produced the text .
madam president , the compromise procedure is an ad hoc procedure that is not covered by the rules of our parliament .
mr baron crespo , as you know , there is no rule of procedure that specifies this detail , but it is customary that those who have presented the text agree to sign it .
we cannot vote on a resolution when the groups say that neither the council nor the commission approves of the idea of creating a monitoring centre for industrial change .
yes , mrs plooij-van gorsel , you have the floor .
parliament was divided between supporters of two different solutions .
eventually , a majority was achieved for one of the solutions , a majority which also encompassed the group of the european united left .
in normal administrative relations , this decision by parliament would be final ; not so in the european union .
this procedure between the council and parliament resulted in a compromise which is rather noncommittal as long as it is not accompanied by a commission statement .
this statement explains how the commission interprets the word " substantial " in article 8 ( 1 ) .
without the european union , it would have been easier to reach an agreement between groups of separate countries for each sea .
i hope a review will take place within the next couple of years so that the original intentions of the bouwman report can be brought to bear .
the people of europe are deeply concerned about the pollution of the seas and the coastlines of the member states .
the european parliament echoed these legitimate concerns and amended the directive proposed by the european commission on the management of waste discharged by ships in such a way as to make member states aware of their responsibilities .
those negotiating on behalf of parliament and the council reached the following agreement : all ships calling at a port of a member state shall contribute significantly ( a statement from the commission annexed to the text considers that this means at least 30 % of the costs ) , irrespective of actual use of the facilities .
i am satisfied with the compromise we have reached .
morillon recommendation ( a5-0206 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the recommendation .
madam president , i voted against the recommendation because i feel that the provision of aid was not made sufficiently conditional upon a genuine renewal of the turkish state , genuine safeguarding of human rights and genuine protection of minors .
i believe however that the european parliament should not have changed its stance on the amendments of the first reading : article 5 ( criteria for turkey ' s accession ) , article 15 ( suspension of cooperation with turkey if there are obstacles to the issues of democracy , the rule of law , human rights , the protection or minorities ) , article 35 ( annual report on the protection of democratic principles , the rule of law , human rights and fundamental freedoms , compliance with international law ) .
the european parliament could at least take advantage of the parallel desire of the turkish government to enter the european union to demand such basic measures as the abolition of the death penalty , democratic freedoms and the cessation of the repression of the kurdish people .
and , whilst the rapporteur of the european parliament struggles to find a way of highlighting human rights without upsetting the soldiers who trample them underfoot , a franco-german-belgian consortium , as was recently reported in the press , is preparing to supply turkey with a munitions factory .
in the space of 24 hours , you are going to approve a financial package of tens of millions of euros for turkey and condemn this self-same country for bombing the kurdish populations of northern iraq , in violation of another country ' s airspace .
and when i say condemn , i greatly exaggerate the import not only of the text but also of your intentions .
what has happened to the respect for human rights , which must condition who the european union helps or cooperates with , and which you adapt to suit your own ends ?
we rejected this amendment because companies need a clear framework within which to act .
in this case , under the guise of concern for the environment , the rapporteur wants to take charge of all the policies of the member states .
the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area has no other purpose than to make it easier for european industrial products to infiltrate the markets of these countries and to simultaneously place the riches of these countries under their predatory regimes .
the communist party of greece is a strong advocate of cooperation between peoples based on equal conditions and without interference by one country in the domestic affairs of another .
it especially emphasises the responsibility of developed , capitalist countries for creating the current situation in underdeveloped countries , which is a result of its continuous pillaging of these countries .
this is written in agenda 2000 .
not wanting any roll back and unable to achieve containment , european leaders are logically seeking to prevent these nomads from leaving their home countries .
sketched out at the european summit in cannes in june 1995 , established by the barcelona conference of november 1995 in the form of a euro-mediterranean partnership , and implemented by the meda regulation of 23 july 1996 , this mediterranean policy of the european union is based on a few regional and national investment projects .
it is a meagre amount : eur 3.3 billion from 1995 to 1999 , from morocco to gaza and the west bank , even if , by adding to it the eur 3.6 million in loans from the european investment bank , the financial contribution is greater than the eur 4.4 billion given by the world bank .
it is a meagre amount , not only because , in reality , these eur 3.6 billion in commitment loans are in fact reduced to a collective payment of just eur 648 million , but also because this step is not commensurate with the size of the problem .
admittedly , for 2000-2006 , meda ii will increase loans of less than 47.1 % to arrive at a financial package of eur 8.5 billion .
however , the report on the reform of the meda programme does not set the right tone on a number of counts .
the european union is fixated with the idea of concluding free trade agreements with the southern mediterranean countries , although , paradoxically , they only have a one-sided liberalising effect .
the aim of the eu-mediterranean partnership must be to redress the balance between the northern and southern regions of the mediterranean area , improve people ' s quality of life and promote understanding between the inhabitants of the various regions .
the countries of the southern mediterranean region have been declared as the forecourts to fortress europe .
this report safeguards , once again , the free movement of goods , services and capital .
as member for a town that looks on to the mediterranean , i hope that the euro-mediterranean partnership is given comparable resources for the period 2000-2006 to those given to the countries of central and eastern europe .
aid to mediterranean countries must be provided quickly and efficiently , in line with the european union ' s political priorities .
increasing the european parliament ' s participation in meda ' s decision-making process is another point that i believe to be crucial .
i also deplore the fact that , on an issue as important as changing the meda regulation , parliament only has the right to state its opinion by means of the consultation procedure .
with the amendments that we are proposing in this report , the meda programme will have simplified , decentralised and transparent implementation procedures .
the european commission has committed itself to increasing meda ' s staffing levels , with a view to reaching similar levels of human resources enjoyed by other major programmes such as phare and tacis .
amending the meda regulation with a view to improving the decision-making process and simplifying the procedure for implementing projects is an important stage in the euro-mediterranean partnership .
i shall do my best to ensure that the vote on the meda budget is another stage confirming the importance we attach to the euro-mediterranean partnership .
varela suanzes-carpegna reports ( a5-0194 and a5-0188 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for mr varela ' s report on the republic of guinea fisheries agreement , even if prawns and tuna will not look very favourably on this report which regulates catching them .
watson report ( a5-0201 / 2000 ) madam president , i would like to explain the votes on behalf of the eldr group .
our overriding objective was to get this very important report through as the first report communitarising european community immigration laws and as a matter of justice to third-country nationals .
we would have preferred beneficiaries of subsidiary protection to stay in as a matter of principle , because they are long-term legal residents , but we decided to assist the passage of the report .
madam president , i voted against the watson report , as did the whole of the group of the european people ' s party , not just because the amendments tabled by the group - of which i have the pleasure of being a member - were not adopted , but also because the pensioners are tired of seeing european union territory increasingly filling up with third-country nationals who do not have the means to live .
this document lays down that relatives of immigrants who live in certain european union member states may come and join their relatives - which is excellent and i agree with this - if the latter have an income equal to the minimum social security pension .
although the watson report on the proposal for a directive on family reunification is excessively liberal , it has just been adopted by the european parliament , with a large majority of 323 votes to 212 .
this vote also confirms what we have always said about communitising immigration policy by means of the treaty of amsterdam , which is being applied here to the particular case of family reunification by means of article 63 ( 3 ) of the treaty on european union : the transfer of decision-making powers from national level to european level is being used not to strengthen nations , as some have claimed in order to deceive voters , but instead to demolish their defences more completely .
the proposal for a directive on family reunification , as approved by the watson report , proclaims a community-level law on family reunification which , in legal terms , does not yet exist at this level and which , in our opinion , should not be made law .
this is a decision taken by the immigrant himself , and if he is received into that state , it is not his place to claim the right to bring in other people .
it appears then that recognition of the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society is useful when it serves to justify family reunification , but is no longer useful when it could serve to support european families .
the proposal for a directive approved by the watson report is not content to proclaim this non-existent law .
it gives the title ' applicant ' not only to legal immigrants but also to people who have refugee status .
moreover , the beneficiaries of family reunification are not just the applicant 's spouse and children under 18 , but also the unmarried partner who is in a stable relationship with the applicant , which will include homosexual couples when the member state ' s legislation treats them in the same way as married couples for legal purposes .
the directive also includes children of full age who cannot reasonably look after themselves , as well as the relatives in the ascending line of the applicant , their spouse , or even of their unmarried partner .
the draft directive ' s proposal concerning the right to family reunification after one year would not be any problem if , in common with other countries , denmark were to make such demands , as expressly laid down in the draft directive .
as matters stand , the one-year rule cannot , however , be practised in denmark without significant problems .
this right is currently only recognised by international legal instruments , specifically the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of 1950 .
family reunification enables the family unit to be protected and makes the integration of third-country nationals into member states easier .
they have produced a text that is close to the european commission ' s basic proposal which , in my opinion , is on the whole quite satisfactory .
those entitled to claim family reunification are : the spouse or non-married partner of the applicant ( including same-sex partners ) ; although it should be noted that the provision covering non-married partners only applies in member states where the position of non-married couples is comparable to that of married couples ; the children of the couple , whether they are married or not , and whether they are born within marriage , out of wedlock or are from a previous marriage ; the children of one of the spouses or partners are covered , on condition that the latter have actual custody and responsibility ; relatives in the ascending line , when these people are in the applicant ' s care as well as children of full age who are also dependants .
i speak on behalf of myself and my 28 colleagues from the british labour party .
we have been pleased to vote and to support this report even though , for a variety of reasons , the united kingdom government has exercised its right to opt out of this initiative .
there are , however , various practical points and issues regarding sovereignty which the uk takes very seriously and which means it is not appropriate or possible for the united kingdom to be included at this time .
however , for some time now , the proportion of immigrants from third countries has been increasing more rapidly than that of eu citizens from the 14 other member states .
our labour market depends on the presence of immigrants , although the most severe bottlenecks in our labour market are offset by cross-border commuters from france , belgium and germany .
these figures illustrate the interest my country has in a sound immigration policy , and , needless to say , in the important aspect of family reconciliation .
it is , of course , one of the commission ' s tasks , particularly following the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam , to propose measures on the entry into , and residence , in the european union , of third-country nationals , primarily with the undeniably admirable aim of bringing about an approximation of the legal provisions of individual member states on the conditions governing the admission and residence of third-country nationals .
the commission is right to comment , in its proposal for a directive on the right to reunification , that the presence of family members facilitates normal family life , thereby creating greater stability and enabling the individuals concerned to put roots down in the host country more successfully .
against this background , and notwithstanding the fact that some international agreements do not make provision for the right to family reunification , in principle , i still welcome the commission proposal for a community legal instrument in respect of family reunification .
above all , we must ensure that these provisions take the absorption capacity of each member state into account .
the rapporteur was entirely justified in withdrawing her name from the report , which was adopted in committee by 25 votes to 13 .
a directive of the kind proposed by the majority of the committee responsible is simply unworkable , dangerous and counterproductive .
my main objective in drafting this statement was to warn against carrying matters to excess , and the unforeseeable consequences thereof , but without wishing to compromise the principle of family unity .
the family is our society ' s most important building block , and we must therefore stand up for the right to a family life .
above all , children ' s right to be reunited with their parents must be protected , but the right to family reunification ought in certain cases ( for example , when there are serious health reasons ) to apply also to relatives in the ascending line , as well as to children who have come of age .
however , particularly from a german perspective , it represents an improvement in the situation of those refugees who are in a position to facilitate the legal entry of others , under the ' family members ' heading .
we are forced to hang around for half an hour after the votes to say that we are submitting our explanation of vote in writing .
i have been sitting here for almost half an hour waiting for my name to be called because i was informed by the services that i had to be present in order for my explanation of vote to be taken as written .
i personally feel that the best approach is to check that members are present for the vote so that they can leave if they are submitting their explanation in writing , and so that the explanations of vote in writing by members who have not taken part in the vote are not counted .
such a centre would serve to create a more proactive approach to medium and longer-term industrial change which would benefit all those concerned - commission , european parliament , social partners , government and local authorities .
such a centre could be incorporated into an established body or foundation through the enlargement of existing competences , as proposed in the pse resolution .
the huge industrial changes of recent years that have resulted from the increase in globalisation , new technologies and social transformations have given rise not only to economic growth and new production sectors but also to a growing number of company mergers , closures and relocations , which have resulted in the loss of local markets , unemployment , the degradation of social and labour protection systems , greater social exclusion and enormous human suffering .
it is equally urgent , however , that the commission should hasten the review of directive 94 / 45 / ec on the setting up of a european works council and regulation ( eec ) no 4064 / 89 , so as to ensure greater participation by workers ' organisations prior to decisions on the concentration and transfer of undertakings and a greater guarantee of protection and defence of workers ' rights .
it is clear that this policy goes hand in hand with the recent decisions taken by the council to prohibit all access to documents concerning defence and security policies .
the new order is placing new demands on people and on the less developed countries in order consolidate its supremacy .
veltroni report ( a5-209 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the veltroni report also and above all because , as representative of the pensioners ' party to the european parliament , i am aware that pensioners and elderly people spend a lot of time watching television .
madam president , i voted against the motion because this policy still contains worrying elements of statalism and welfarism .
the important aspects of the intervention of the european union are : 1 ) the global competitiveness of european industry , especially in relation to the usa , must be combined with a guarantee of pluralism and cultural diversity . 2 ) the increased effectiveness of the measures contained in directive 89 / 552 / aec on ' television without frontiers ' , concerning the promotion of european works . 3 ) the promotion of linguistic diversity . 4 ) the protection of minors using new programme control methods . 5 ) the creation of a european forum on cooperation in matters of transparency and the development of strategies to address market concentrations . 6 ) the support of the public audiovisual sector with the option of broadcasting on a global scale . 7 ) the promotion of an internal market for the cinema with the issue of a new directive .
the possibility of targeting intervention to provide strategic support for services of general interest : the public must be guaranteed access to audiovisual services on the basis of criteria such as universality , affordable costs and non-discrimination .
heaton-harris report ( a5-0199 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the heaton-harris report , which deals with the movement of university students within the european union .
the socrates programme entered its second phase with the decision of 24 january 2000 .
it must be admitted , however , that the participation rate is still low , given that this programme involves 18 member states .
this is what the commission inquiry has shown : only 1 % of students took part in erasmus mobility programmes in 1998 .
the survey does provide us with some answers .
we see that more than 57 % of erasmus students encounter financial difficulties .
many problems remain in the field of the recognition of qualifications .
as member for a border area , i regularly meet graduates who are distraught because the courses they have studied in another member state are not recognised .
we now hope that the commission and the member states will take the necessary steps to make the erasmus programme more accessible to students from economically less well-off groups , particularly by optimising coordination between national financial support for higher education and erasmus grants , with a view to promoting social equality in access to the programme and the widest possible take-up .
we cannot continue to accept that the overall participation rate in the programme is barely above 50 % , and that even so , some 57 % of erasmus students have been affected by worrying financial problems .
hence the need for measures to help achieve its initial objective of enabling 10 % of all community students to spend part of their degree course in another member state , and not just 1 % as happened in 1997 / 1998 , making it accessible to students from economically less well-off groups .
boumediene-thiery report ( a5-0207 / 2000 ) madam president , ' in cauda venenum ' as the romans used to say : ' the sting is in the tail ' .
despite the report ' s limitations in this respect and although we do not agree with the entire text , we did vote for the report because the measures it recommends represent progress in relation to the current deplorable situation of immigrant workers and migrant workers who are european union nationals .
i would add that the extreme right ' s fiercely racist opposition to this report confirms our views in this direction .
since 1957 , the treaty establishing the european economic community has contained provisions designed to guarantee the free movement of workers within community territory .
in 1990 , two directives ( 90 / 364 / eec and 90 / 365 / eec ) have extended the right of residence by defining general principles and rules for workers who have stopped work .
a third directive ( 93 / 96 / ec ) , adopted in 1993 , contains specific provisions for students .
since 1993 and the treaty of maastricht , any member state national has the right to move and reside freely in the european union ( article 14 of the ec treaty ) , and this right forms part of european citizenship ( article 18 ) .
the report we are discussing today seeks to provide an overview of the implementation of the directives on the right of residence of students , pensioners and other non-economically-active members of society as well as to study the special measures concerning european union citizens ' moving and settling for reasons of public order , security and health ( directive 64 / 221 / eec ) .
with regard to the first section , we must admit that although the directives in question have been transposed , in some cases painstakingly , into national legislation , many obstacles remain , which must be overcome by adopting a raft of specifically-targeted measures .
to mention one problem with which i am very familiar , that of students , i think it is crucial that we provide them with better information on their rights if they wish to study in another member state .
with regard to the second section , there are many problems in the way directive 64 / 221 / eec has been implemented .
the treaty allows member states to impose limits on the free movement of persons for reasons of public order , public security or public health .
in any event , these concepts must comply with the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms .
an overall redrafting of the existing texts will make this possible and will have the advantage of putting an end to the current inequalities of treatment in the various member states .
the approval of the report that the rapporteur has presented to parliament is heartening , but i cannot say the same for most of the proposals for amendments that have been raised in the house .
the principle of the free movement of persons , included in the treaty of rome fifty years ago , still encounters many difficulties in its practical implementation .
as mentioned in the report , the implementation of the directives on the right of residence of students and retired people ( 90 / 364 , 90 / 365 and 93 / 96 ) is clearly unsatisfactory , and the same is true for the directive on migrant workers .
in addition , as the rapporteur points out , there are at present millions of third-country nationals residing lawfully in the european union who often find themselves deprived of the right to free movement and residence .
hence it is essential that the member states and the commission take the necessary steps to ensure that the rights of migrant workers are upheld and to improve their situation .
however , i am unable to support this report in principle , because it takes advantage of the situation , with a view to demanding freedom of movement and establishment for all third-country nationals who have the right of residence in a member state .
there are millions of third-country nationals who fit this description , and it is completely unacceptable to saddle other member states with the consequences of giving freedom of movement to millions of people , without taking the individual member states ' absorption capacity into account .
many people have doubts about admitting malta to the european union .
if the demands made in the boumediene-thiery report in respect of freedom of movement for third-country nationals were to be met , this would have a far more serious impact than if we were to grant the citizens of the candidate countries in central and eastern europe freedom of movement and establishment , without a transitional period , which is something no one in their right mind would consider .
if we really want to fan the flames of xenophobia within the community , then i can think of no better way than to support the excessive and unreasonable proposals contained in the boumediene-thiery report , which thank god , was adopted in committee by only 23 votes in favour to 15 votes against .
it is asking too much of the other member states as it is , for the german government to allow several million third-country nationals resident on its territory to hold german citizenship in addition to their own .
but you are entitled to correct your words .
mr president , colleagues were shouting and so it was very difficult to hear what i was saying .
mr gorostiaga atxalandabaso , the plenary does not adopt the verbatim report of proceedings .
the liberalisation of the community telecommunications market reached a climax in 1998 with the full liberalisation of services and infrastructures in the majority of european union countries .
the expansion of the telecommunications and internet sectors is creating large numbers of new jobs both within those sectors and in other sectors , and bringing an increase in efficiency .
over 500 000 jobs have been created in the mobile telephony sector alone over the last five years .
in july 2000 , the commission proposed a new package on electronic communications , which particularly stresses the need to facilitate high-speed internet access - while keeping costs down - and to develop a legislative framework which is not too burdensome for operators in the sector .
the possibilities for commission intervention in the field of competition policy are clearly defined by articles 81 and 82 of the treaty and by the merger regulation .
at the moment , there appears to be a shift on the european market from consolidation operations to convergence operations , and this is borne out by the alliances recently examined by the commission , such as the vodaphone-vivendi deal , and those which are currently under examination , such as the merger between america on line and time warner . .
the merger was subsequently abandoned by the parties in question but the conditions imposed by the commission nevertheless served as evidence of its intention to protect the liberalisation of national markets from concentrations of dominating carriers .
on 28 june last , the commission refused to allow the merger between two us companies , worldcom and sprint .
combining the extensive internet networks and the vast client bases of worldcom and sprint would have produced such a large company that the new company would have been in a position to dictate the conditions of access to its internet networks and its clients , which would have been to the detriment of the client and created barriers to innovation .
another example of action taken to avert the risk of an operator gaining control of innovation is that of the vodaphone / mannesmann decisions and , subsequently , the vodaphone / vivendi / canal plus decisions .
the commission had to assess the implications of the mergers on the emerging markets and authorised the parties to go ahead in both cases during the initial stages , once they had proposed to abide by a limited number of commitments .
the vodaphone / mannesmann operation caused problems on the emerging pan-european market of seamless mobile telephony services for multinationals .
in order to eliminate these competition problems , vodaphone proposed to allow non-discriminatory access to its integrated network and allow competitors to provide similar services during the period in which they were developing their own networks .
shortly afterwards , the commission had to examine the case of vis-a-vis , the joint venture made up of vodaphone and attach , vivendi and canal plus , to develop an internet access portal .
vis-a-vis was going to produce a multiple-access internet portal for the whole of europe , providing the clients of the companies involved with the choice of a range of web services accessible through the clients ' pcs , mobile phones or set top boxes .
the commission 's study revealed that the joint venture would have caused problems for the emerging national tv internet access markets and the emerging national and pan-european mobile phone internet access markets .
mr president , as the examples of the cases of which i have just given a brief outline show , community competition law plays a crucial role in ensuring that the benefits of liberalisation and innovation do , in effect , filter down to the european citizens .
the role of community rules on merger control is to prevent the creation or consolidation of dominant positions , which would hold back technological and economic progress , and to ensure that the european union consumers are able to benefit from this progress .
as we have learned from the experience of these initial years of liberalisation and careful control to preserve competition , workers are also among those who benefit , as shown by the figure i gave just now as an example .
in the telecom field , it is clear that market share can change hands much more quickly than in some of the major industries that have been regulated in the past .
we understand from the peers group report that you are going to be awarded an extra 92 posts .
mr president , could i start my contribution by offering my congratulations to commissioner monti and his officials for the scrupulous and professional way in which they dealt with the proposed mci worldcom - sprint merger .
this really is a dilemma for parliament and for the commission .
i would like to take up the subject just touched upon by the previous speaker , namely the transatlantic aspects of telecoms liberalisation and particularly paragraph 6 and 7 of the draft resolution , which refers to the unfortunate initiative by senator hollings to restrict the transfer of licences to telecoms companies which are more than 25 % state-owned .
this seems an ironic lurch towards a protectionist position at the very time when here in europe and in this parliament we are about to embark upon a debate on the latest raft of measures which , in my view , would make the european union telecoms market the most liberalised and the most open market in the world going way beyond many if not all of the commitments into which we entered in gatt and the wto .
whilst i have some philosophical sympathy with senator hollings and his colleagues who consider that state-owned companies have some hidden and sometimes explicit advantages over their privately-owned competitors , the way in which congress in the united states is trying to address this issue is contrary to both the spirit and the letter of us multilateral commitments .
mr president , commissioner , i remember how , around the middle of last year , when the merger of the american companies time warner and america online was announced , there were people who described that event as an early beginning of the third millennium as far as its cultural and technological aspects were concerned .
in the united states , 40 % of homes had access to that network of all networks known as the internet , whilst in the european union , that figure hardly reached 20 % , and that percentage was only surpassed in a few of the union ' s member states , which were more advanced in terms of technological development .
we must provide all citizens with access to this new information society .
in europe , we must ensure that there is security , because that is a human right .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we welcome the fact that the commission and the us department of justice have blocked the proposed mci worldcom - sprint merger , and were also delighted to hear that the us government is not inclined to approve the aol - time warner deal .
however , mergers also have an impact on employment and social cohesion .
mr president , at the outset i would like to say that i welcome the commission 's publication of the new telecom directives and regulations on 12 july .
this is part of the ongoing framework programme to improve the quality of telecommunications services in europe .
eu leaders pointed to the need to improve our overall telecommunications services .
certainly , the auctioning of these licences in germany and britain has secured large amounts of money for the respective national exchequers , but who ultimately is going to pay for these phones ?
in addition , it involves , as we know very well from the echelon case and others , the possibility of monitoring , and thus the possibility of the monitoring of people , which has also become a very important business .
quite the opposite , as through them these companies can create a dependency , as that part of this business happens in people ' s brains .
as mr clegg said , there are obviously problems too between the european union and the united states , such as the restriction on mergers in the case of deutsche telecom , which obviously has to be looked into .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , mr clegg has already expressed his broad support , on behalf of the liberal group , for the commission ' s proposals , and his concern about certain specific aspects relating to the united states , as has just been mentioned .
i would like to highlight the concern about an aspect which appears in the liberal group ' s original motion for a resolution , whose first section refers to the need to reject any political interference in the commission ' s competition policy .
if we apply this to the issue in question , the telecommunications sector , it is a well-founded concern given the cases which arose in spain , a few months ago , involving the merger of telefonica with a dutch company , in portugal and in other sectors in france .
mr president , the records for company mergers have now been broken in the telecommunications sector , with mega-mergers in europe and on the other side of the atlantic .
the commission banned the merger between mc worldcom and sprint solely because it might threaten free competition .
at a time , however , when the european union is making employment a priority , mergers should also be seen in light of their consequences for employment and land-use planning .
may i welcome the commissioner to parliament today on behalf of all of us .
it is perhaps the most important task of the commission to maintain free competition and make the market work across the european union .
in the telecoms context it is vital to ensure that consumers get all the benefits the free market can offer them , particularly the low-cost internet access .
in future we shall want to give the competition mergers department , more work , because the market should play an even bigger role in telecoms than it does at the moment .
i hope you will apply competition law and merger law toughly , but always ensure that you look at each merger on its own merits .
however , market opening in the telecommunications sector itself , demonstrates that market opening can bring benefits for consumers in the form of falling prices and access to new services .
above all , though , the commission must use its efforts to modernise competition law , particularly in respect of the regulation on merger control , as an opportunity to adopt an extremely rigorous approach to its reform undertakings too .
politicians and trust busters , such as mr monti , must not interfere in this current development in the market other than when the commission has proper grounds to believe that a particular merger may cause distortions to the competition situation , so harming the interests of consumers .
mr rapkay , you may be sure that nobody in this chamber wants monopolies or oligopolies in the market .
on the other hand , the commission must actively monitor whether free access to markets is being realised in all sectors , as stated in point 3 of parliament ' s joint motion for a resolution .
global competition must be examined , and there have been problems recently , at least with regard to the deutsche telekom - voice stream deal .
mr harbour , you identified one crucial point , namely preventing market trends from disrupting innovation .
that is why we insist so much on rigorous enforcement of competition policy in the light of the market situation in europe , irrespective of the nationality of companies .
we would have done the same in another case in which one company was european ( pechiney ) and the other north american-canadian ( alcan ) , but the merger was withdrawn .
in addition , we took similar action in the recent mci worldcom-sprint case , where both companies were american .
moreover , the bill is , in our view , clearly incompatible with the usa 's wto obligations and other basic telecommunications agreements and the commission through my colleague pascal lamy has certainly made this very clear to our american counterparts .
the commission also resolutely opposes any such legislation in our member states .
the deadline for the commission 's decision is 24 october .
the hearing on this merger is taking place today and tomorrow in brussels .
we expressed our concerns on 22 august when we issued our statement of objections to the parties .
there is nothing else i can add at this stage .
the auctions will increase the number of mobile telephone operators in the union .
it has been pointed out that the sums paid to eu governments to obtain licences are too high and that making it necessary for the operators to recoup their initial investment would lead to higher prices for consumers and perhaps limit the development of new advanced mobile telephone services .
but this is not a competition law issue as such , whereas trying to introduce restrictions on competition in order to make it easier to recoup the cost would be sanctioned by competition law .
so even though member states are free to choose either a beauty contest , an auction system or a mixture of both , they must still comply with competition law and the sector-specific telecommunications legislation on licensing and with the state aid rules .
in this context i could mention that the competition dg is currently looking into a complaint against the netherlands , jointly with the information society dg .
we have to examine situations case by case .
size can sometimes create problems .
even smaller operators can create competition problems and then we have to intervene .
i must be very brief at this stage .
however the commission welcomes the involvement of workers ' representatives in the merger control process .
representatives have a right to be heard at all stages of the procedure .
i am increasingly convinced that rigorous competition is a key component of a social market economy , be it in the traditional sectors or in the new sectors and - i stress both adjectives - social and market economies .
thank you very much , mr monti , for your detailed reply .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow , thursday .
human cloning the next item is the commission statement on human cloning .
it is becoming increasingly important to anticipate these ethical questions so that they can then be integrated into a broader dialogue between science and society .
therapeutic cloning , or to be more precise , the use for therapeutic purposes of embryo stem cells obtained by cloning techniques is one example of the ethical questions raised by the rapid scientific advances that have been made in the life sciences .
the report by a group of british experts , published on 16 august , recognises the considerable importance of research into human embryo stem cells and their therapeutic application .
as president prodi announced recently in a press statement , the commission , far from remaining silent , hopes that an enlightened debate will ensue , in close cooperation with the european parliament .
legislation and gaps in legislation vary greatly , which reflects the range of very different sensibilities in the countries of the european union .
community action in the field of biotechnological research is nevertheless increasingly based on the most rigorous fundamental ethical principles , out of respect for national sensibilities .
this legislation does not allow for the patenting of reproductive human cloning and the sale of embryos or parts of the human body .
i should like to emphasise that the ethical aspects are , as a matter of course , taken into account when proposals are assessed and that a thorough ethical review is undertaken for proposals involving more sensitive ethical issues .
the commission looks forward to hearing the opinion of the european group on ethics this november on the use of adult stem cells .
in more general terms , the high level group of experts on life sciences , recently established at my behest , must help us to construct a genuine dialogue on the life sciences between the world of research and society at large .
the symposium , which is being held by this group on 6 and 7 november in brussels and to which , of course , i invite all members of this parliament who may be interested , represents an important stage in establishing this dialogue .
comments by mr verheugen concerning enlargement the next item is the communication on mr verheugen ' s statement on enlargement .
there is a pressing need for this new page in the history of the union to be completed , in accordance with the objectives set by the european council and the commission itself and frequently presented before this house .
the union ' s first act of generosity , and i must stress that once again , must be to be ready to open its doors to new members by january 2003 .
in order to put our house in order , therefore , the union ' s main concern must be to agree in nice , at the end of the year , upon a high-quality institutional reform which will prevent our system from being watered down .
for my part , i fear that the public is not yet sufficiently convinced .
in particular , the national procedures for ratifying enlargement are purely national issues .
i have always found parliament , before which i sit today , to be fully committed to doing just this : explaining to our fellow citizens , over and over again , that enlargement is not a threat but a historic opportunity in all respects , and , above all , a historic step towards establishing peace in our continent .
in this particular case , i am entirely confident that gunter verheugen fully supports the commission ' s policy , which this house has approved on many occasions .
i cited the treaty of maastricht as an example of this , and not enlargement .
finally , i also said that the german constitution makes no provision for this .
since the prodi commission took office , the outcome of the enlargement negotiations has been positive .
i might point out that it will only be possible to make this kind of headway in close cooperation with the member states and the european parliament .
i also warmly commend the european parliament and its members for their positive role in the efforts being made to raise awareness of this historic project amongst the people of europe .
we need to have a wide-ranging , democratic debate on this historic project .
and as president prodi has already said , it makes perfect sense for the accession treaties to be ratified in the individual member states in accordance with their respective legal systems .
but i am extremely grateful to president prodi for the fact that he deemed the occurrence so important as to address us in person today .
you would not be in office if we had not given you our blessing .
we are on the commission ' s side and would ask you to take note of this and not accuse us of opposing the commission in principle , and only finding ourselves unanimous in one respect .
i simply refuse to accept this . ( applause ) i refuse to accept this because i want people to understand that the work we do is in support of the commission .
in so doing you have made it clear , once and for all - as the president of the commission said - that you are no longer advocating that a referendum of the kind you have in your country , should form the basis for enlargement of the european union .
i am delighted that we have been able to reach a consensus on this issue and discuss it , because the issue of enlargement concerns the future of the european continent in the twenty-first century .
mr verheugen , i would urge you to take this to heart .
in principle , we are on the commission ' s side when it comes to the future development of europe , the unity of our continent , and enlargement , because the people of central europe want to be part of the community of values that is the european union .
naturally , each member state will decide on the accession of new states according to its own constitutional law , and the same applies to germany .
but precisely because the german constitution makes no provision for a referendum of this kind , your comments were interpreted as a call for a referendum to be introduced , and as such , as an attempt to postpone the eastward enlargement of the european union .
we reject any attempt to put new obstacles in the way of accession .
the only way to achieve this aim is to impress on the people that the size of the task is commensurate with the size of the opportunity presented to us all in europe .
our generation of politicians , ladies and gentlemen , yours and mine , now has the opportunity , for the first time in a thousand years , to bring all the people of europe together in one community , based on free will , peace and democracy .
however , as the commissioner responsible for enlargement , he does not now have the luxury of speaking in a personal capacity .
the fundamental problem when we give mixed messages or perhaps poorly expressed or ill-judged messages is that we risk conveying the wrong message .
the commissioner 's relationship with our parliament and its committees has always been constructive and positive and it should remain so .
the council has been incapable of proposing a concrete enlargement plan and in this it really has to rally its forces .
it is certainly not quite the right time to contemplate this , as we will really have to have the courage to tell people that eight years have passed already since the present applicant countries were invited to join the european union .
eight years have passed , but hopefully we will be bold enough to tell the people that this process is now far advanced and is irreversible .
in other words , people ' s direct rights are vitally necessary in general , but in this case i do not think we can start to vote on enlargement now .
madam president , opinion differs in my group as to the proposed enlargement of the european union .
personally , i see it as an historic necessity and opportunity , which must not be put at risk either by rashness , undemocratic procedures , and bureaucratic or national small-mindedness , or politicians ' lack of consideration for the social dimension .
in july , you dropped some very vague hints about the difficulties .
but a german referendum must never be allowed to determine the weal and woe of enlargement .
there has been precious little sign of this so far , either in the debate on a charter of fundamental rights , in eu reform undertakings , or in the accession negotiations .
then you will have us all on your side .
madam president , president prodi said ' public opinion is not sufficiently convinced ' and other members have said the same thing .
therefore , if we want enlargement to work to the ultimate benefit of present and future member citizens , we will have to start involving the citizens in political and institutional processes , not unconditionally as you said in your speech , president prodi , for there is one condition and that is that enlargement becomes a genuine benefit both for those citizens who are currently members of our european union and for those who , we hope , will join us as soon as possible .
it was , of course , a mistake , which has caused problems for the commission and for all of us as the european union , in the face of the legitimate hopes of the peoples of eastern europe who , after 50 years of communist dictatorship , which we did nothing to combat , now , i believe , have the right to be part of the european union .
then we want to achieve enlargement without spending a penny more than our current budget , which is already less than sufficient for the 15 .
this process was concluded as early as the end of 1993 .
if there are no further interventions , this debate is closed and we shall continue the debate on human cloning .
i wish to thank commissioner verheugen once more and to welcome back commissioner busquin .
human cloning ( continuation ) mr president , commissioner , i believe that every person who is motivated by faith in man , right from the very first moment of his existence , must be guaranteed the unconditional respect which is morally due to the human person in its entirety .
it is immoral to use human embryos for research , for those very operations to which the president of the united states , bill clinton , has allocated public funding , those operations which have been approved by tony blair ' s british government .
lastly , we propose that a temporary committee be set up to study these issues .
mr president , article 1 of the draft charter of fundamental rights states that the dignity of the person must be respected and protected .
the speed at which scientific research progresses is sometimes difficult for average humans , and even for politicians , to comprehend .
certain political groups in this parliament are proposing a vote on a supposedly ' urgent ' motion for a resolution .
this morning ' s discussions on the monitoring centre for industrial change showed that this parliament is capable of voting on everything and its opposite in the space of a few minutes .
this raft of issues concerns various standing committees in this parliament .
we are prepared to withdraw our motion for a resolution if the other groups do the same and to try to work constructively together .
we do not want a quick , ill-conceived reaction to events that have taken place in my country and the announcement made by the british government .
it is only a proposal , not a decision , and it follows a very careful and considered report by the chief medical officer 's expert group on cloning .
the british government has recognised that in its proposal because it will be the subject of a free vote , possibly later this year .
i believe , although it is not my party 's government , that the british government has been measured and considered in its response .
the second view considers that the right of those suffering from serious and hitherto incurable illnesses to be able to benefit from the potential of medical research takes precedence over any other consideration .
the idea behind this decision is that therapeutic cloning , that is , the cloning of embryonic cells that are undifferentiated from human embryos available for research and production is a promising way forward .
i feel that it is extremely important to make two observations at this point .
it is probably fair to criticise this convention for its vagueness on a number of points , but in article 18 , it states quite clearly that the production of human embryos for research purposes is prohibited .
upholding the ban on human cloning , rather than establishing it in the first place - i am talking about upholding the ban - is crucial in this respect .
mr president , to return to the matter in hand , we are aware that , in the face of new ideas - even new ideas which seem promising in terms of treatments for illnesses affecting millions and millions of people - the normal , conventional reaction always kicks in : to ban , to crusade , to shout ' barbarians ! ' without even stopping to ask whether the ban can work , whether it would work or whether we are in a position to ensure that it is observed or to monitor it .
we want to try and reduce the gap between science and politics , to endeavour to govern new phenomena secularly together with the pragmatism of experimentation and successive approximations , without immediately launching into prohibitionist campaigns which we already know to be ineffective .
i believe that it is our responsibility to set the limits , or take on board the risk of setting the limits , of successive approximations without trying to impose any ethical principles - in the case of those who have any - or principles of civilisation .
having stated these general positions of principle , the debate is only beginning on the attitude we should adopt towards biotechnological research , both in order to fully weigh up its ethical implications , but without running the risk of slowing down work which is likely to bring about improvements in human health .
as if this would explain and justify everything .
i would urgently call on the british government to reconsider its far-reaching decision and would ask the british parliament not to back this proposal .
hitherto , all those in positions of responsibility within the european union were agreed that the cloning of human beings should be rejected out of hand .
commissioner , over the past few days , a number of articles in the press , as well as your speech , have given rise to some confusion regarding the fifth research framework programme , and especially concerning the patenting directive .
we must appoint the best experts to advise the council and ensure that there is consistency in the legislation across the member states .
the ethical issues and the need to protect human dignity , in particular , are so important that we cannot afford to leave them at the mercy of fragmented , possibly even contradictory pieces of legislation introduced by individual member states .
we must get to grips with all the ethical issues raised by medicine , technology and science , as a matter of urgency .
the appropriate parliamentary committee must therefore get down to work as quickly as possible .
our vote will set this in train .
putting an end to cloning techniques in europe will only shift research elsewhere , for example to the united states or , in the worst case , to countries whose ethical standards are worse than those in the european union .
mr president , we have the awful situation where one eu member state permits therapeutic cloning , which we have always been critical of .
the people of the european union are expecting the european parliament to take a stance on this .
the arbitrary distinction between reproductive and non-reproductive cloning is semantic sleight of hand .
that is why parliament must use its power to act .
this is why the european union ' s action in this field must be guided by major fundamental principles alone .
indeed , it is no coincidence that the 1998-2002 fifth research and technological development framework programme excludes the financing of projects which involve the cloning of embryos for reproductive purposes and does not provide for funding research into cloning for therapeutic purposes .
in respect for the differences of opinion on the matter , we feel that it is vital to lay down ethical standards based on respect for human dignity in the biotechnology sector .
it would have been interesting to hear their arguments too , because i am quite sure that they must have had a few thoughts on the matter .
it would be entirely appropriate to discuss this kind of issue during this debate , because we have the privilege of being in the company of delegates from the four corners of the european union .
but i also want my opinion to be respected .
the next stage will be commercial exploitation , which our own bio-patenting directive allows for .
fact : human reproductive cloning is banned in the uk .
there is no intention to change this and the uk industry has no intention of carrying out human reproductive cloning now or in the future .
the research use of embryonic stem cells is a short-term response to a scientific need to discover ways of reprogramming adult cells .
fact : stem cell research is tightly regulated under a stringent act of parliament by the highly respected and rigorous human fertilisation and embryology authority .
it would perhaps be a good idea if other member states were to have something similar .
fact : there have recently been interesting advances in adult stem cell research , but there still remain significant disadvantages compared with the unique characteristics of embryonic stem cells .
rightly or wrongly , the uk and the us legislation have permitted this type of research for ten years and many benefits have resulted .
and after consulting world-wide for many months the donaldson report recommends extending such research for therapeutic purposes .
it should also be pointed out that national legislation on this issue varies enormously , which can lead to uncontrolled practices , but these practices , as mrs grossetete said just now , may make us question the value some countries place on the reality of the principle of respect for human life from the embryonic stage , stated in article 18 of the european convention on human rights , which forbids the production of embryos for human purposes .
secondly , i think that in order to hold this debate , parliament should create an ad hoc parliamentary committee which , could , in the first instance , quickly take the initiative of hearing experts from all disciplines , both from europe and from across the atlantic .
this debate must also , however , be held in the public domain .
i simply wanted to clarify this point , mr liese , since you asked the question .
with regard to the debate , on the other hand , as i said in my introductory speech , the commission would like to enter into a debate with parliament on these issues which are , as we have seen , very complex and very interesting .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0535 / 2000 ) .
firstly , it is clear that there has been a human resources problem in the public health directorate in luxembourg , which deals with this work .
this situation was aggravated last summer when a decision was taken in the light of the report of the committee of independent experts to end the contract with the technical assistance office which helped in the implementation of this programme .
secondly , a large number of small projects are implemented under the anti-drugs programme , placing additional strain on the already limited human resources at our disposal .
during the last five years , the average size of projects in terms of co-financing granted by the commission has been eur 180,000 .
the commission 's proposal for a new public health framework and strategy highlights the need for clearer objectives and more efficient management with a greater impact on key priorities .
as the budgetary authority repeatedly stresses , we must match resources and priorities more realistically in the future .
the inexperience of contractors regarding financial control requirements will continue to necessitate significant advice and other inputs from already limited staff resources .
the public health directorate intends to carry out an information campaign to help contractors to understand the commission 's procedures and requirements more clearly .
on the issue of red tape , the departments concerned are currently reviewing their documentary requirements with the aim of simplifying and speeding up payment procedures without neglecting the necessary financial control measures .
i have encountered problems of this kind before , not just in the drugs sphere , but with many other partners that work with the commission and seek co-financing .
with regard to the size of projects , since 1996 a total of 149 projects have been selected for over eur 25 million , with an average amount of eur 180 000 per project .
it does not always follow that smaller projects are better than bigger projects , but if human resources are applied efficiently it will be for the betterment of the projects concerned .
what i say now is no reflection at all on the commissioner himself , but i hope that he would accept with me that science must inform our decisions on risk and how to manage it .
that principle only holds good if the decisions are scientifically irreproachable .
that information was passed on to the commission , since it is one of the eu institutions responsible for risk management .
the commission made a clear assessment of this issue .
my colleague , commissioner liikanen , has adopted a more long-term approach to the whole issue of phthalates and placticisers in toys and so on .
as the author is not present , question no 43 lapses .
question no 44 by ( h-0688 / 00 ) : subject : water needs in the middle east the constantly increasing demand for water in the middle east is set to play a significant part in relation to the outlook for cooperation and understanding among the peoples of the region .
water is indeed one of the main issues of the middle east peace process , not only in the negotiations between israel and the palestinians but also between israel and syria .
as a concrete contribution we have committed another eur 4 million in 1999 for the completion of the regional water data banks .
the commission 's policy aims at helping the region to achieve a sustainable management of the scarce water resources in combination with assistance to explore new resources .
estimates suggest that in the overall mediterranean region agriculture absorbs over two thirds of total national water consumption , while accounting for only one third of gnp and labour .
indeed the euro-mediterranean foreign ministers conference in stuttgart in 1999 decided to make water a priority for the partnership .
as a first result the eur 40 million action plan adopted by the euro-mediterranean ministerial conference on local water management in turin in october 1999 would provide a further opportunity for cooperation in this sector .
commissioner , what initiatives are you going to take to formulate rules of international law in the management of water resources so as to eliminate any hotbeds of local and regional political antagonism , seeds of crises and a peculiar type of imperialism ?
the most recent example is community support of eur 5 million in grants for the project management of the greater amman water sector improvement programme , plus a substantial loan from the european investment bank .
the european commission contributed eur 1.2 million towards its implementation .
the euro-mediterranean conference on water management in marseilles on 25 and 26 of november 1996 was organised on the initiative of the european commission and the french government , with the support of the city of marseilles .
second part i agree that it is a matter for concern that rules on the transport of animals are not being sufficiently enforced in certain areas .
while member states are responsible for the day-to-day enforcement of community legislation , the food and veterinary office of my directorate-general undertakes specific control and inspection missions to check that member states apply community legislation in an effective and a uniform manner .
i will shortly present a report to the council and the european parliament on the implementation in the member states of the community legislation on the protection of animals during the last quarter of this year .
the report will show that member states currently have difficulties in fully implementing community legislation .
i would like to highlight this and ask what sort of timetable is now in place for real action , taking into account the fact that we have to put our own house in order before new member states join the eu ?
the commission believes that the most effective way to achieve a widespread improvement in animal welfare standards is to work towards an international consensus .
the long-distance transport of horses has been discussed with heads of veterinary services in the central and east european countries currently negotiating accession to the union .
so i can give an assurance that this issue is high on the list of priorities in my service and we will be monitoring it closely and pursuing it actively .
given the pets ' passport project at european level and a right for pets now to move freely within the european union as a result , does the commission have any legal competence to intervene and protect animal welfare and , in particular , these domestic pets in germany , of which there will be a needless slaughter potentially and possibly even extinction of a fine breed of british dogs ?
mr tannock , you may express your opinion in writing on a bilateral basis or you may do it in public in accordance with the rules of procedure , and the commissioner will reply .
thank you very much , mr byrne , for your cooperation with parliament this afternoon .
however , the president also sought to situate the commission 's action in these areas , as in others , in the context of the treaties ' revision .
he acknowledged that competence for action concerning children remains primarily with the member states given the lack of a clear legal basis in the treaty for the community to safeguard children 's rights in terms that go beyond the existing framework .
in the current framework the european commission has already undertaken a considerable number of initiatives to protect children 's rights as in the daphne and stop programmes which fall under my competence .
the commission is also pursuing action in the social and educational field with a view to improving the situation of children .
the draft article concerning the protection of children incorporates the main principles of the new york convention as the right to such protection and care as is necessary for their well-being and consideration .
although all the member states have ratified the convention , its implementation varies widely and the views of the member states on how to best protect children 's rights diverge to a considerable extent .
it is my conviction that such an evaluation might represent a useful contribution for the participation of the union in the special session of the united nations general assembly in september 2001 .
the commission believes that its ongoing actions in favour of children , its active advocacy for an appropriate inclusion in the charter of fundamental rights and its support for this idea of having an evaluation as described represents evidence of its commitment to this important subject .
as you know , i am a great admirer of yours and i am sure that you were as uncomfortable repeating your answer today as i was hearing it .
having listened to the extent of plans that the commission has in relation to animal welfare , i can only wish that they had similar plans in relation to the welfare of children .
since we are talking about that my approach is that we should have a study to evaluate how the united nations convention on children 's rights has been implemented in our member states .
this study should be completed in time to be used as basis for the union 's participation in the united nations special general assembly next year .
as you know , the responsibility for protecting the dignity of children falls , above all , within the competence of the member states .
question no 47 by ( h-0606 / 00 ) : subject : absence of passport controls in the schengen area in the commission 's view , how has the absence of passport controls under the schengen agreement worked during the european football championship in the light of the mass arrests made in brussels and charleroi ?
it should also be borne in mind that for the duration of euro 2000 , the belgian and dutch governments made use of a safeguard clause in article 2 ( 2 ) of the schengen agreement , which lays down that , when public order or national security are threatened - and in my view , the fear generated by these cases of ' hooliganism ' certainly meets these criteria - a member state may decide that , for a limited period , national border controls , adapted specially for the situation , can be implemented , even at internal borders within the schengen area .
these were targeted checks , specifically based on information supplied by the member states in the framework of police cooperation , concerning supporters likely to pose a threat to public order .
establishing controls at the external borders and , temporarily , at the internal borders of the schengen area is not the same as closing a border or systematically turning away people who wish to enter the territory in order to attend a football match .
this is why an assessment of the measures for cooperation between the authorities of the member states concerned is already underway and why this joint exercise aims to learn the lessons of euro 2000 , in order to see how police and judicial cooperation can in the future be improved in terms of combating hooliganism .
i supported portugal as well as i could there at king baudouin ' s stadium in brussels , but france won in the end in a match in which it has to be said that france had the better team .
as the commissioner surely knows , the nordic countries are to become signatories of the schengen agreement in march of next year .
i cannot give you a fixed timetable , that is , i cannot guarantee that these documents will be adopted before the expected date for the integration of the nordic passport union into the schengen free movement area .
question no 48 will be replied to in writing .
the portuguese presidency submitted a draft council regulation at the end of june 2000 .
this would make it possible to meet the deadline of having the european police college in place by 2001 , as mentioned in the commission 's scoreboard on justice and home affairs .
it will function in this form for three years .
mr president , i would like to thank the commissioner for his precise answer and substantial input in this matter .
but we intend to promote our own initiative in the area just to make sure that we will have all the necessary information to take a further step ahead as soon as possible .
question no 50 will be replied to in writing .
common social policy objectives must be defined and attained in order to ensure that the process of increasing integration and the forthcoming enlargement is supported by the european public .
but our objectives can be achieved using methods such as social dialogue , the structural funds , especially the european social fund , which has a large budget , mainstreaming , political analysis , research and , finally , legislation .
the first is to combat social exclusion and the second concerns future cooperation on issues of social protection and pension systems .
commissioner , thank you very much for providing these clarifications .
allow me to express the wish that is dearest to my heart in the form of an additional question : what special measures will the commission endeavour to take in the future , with a view to working towards the harmonisation of the social security systems , professional qualifications and the social dimension in all areas ?
however , i believe we must convince the people of the european union that freedom of establishment is not a hollow expression which ultimately applies in full to tourists , rather , they must understand that for people who work , or have worked - firstly in terms of the insurance system and then in terms of the pensions system - freedom of establishment is a reality , and not a hollow expression .
mr president , commissioner , the harmonisation of social security systems would require harmonisation of the financing of social security , or , in practice , the harmonisation of taxation , not just with regard to its technical framework , but also its levels of taxation .
for that reason i believe that a policy like this of taking small steps at a time is quite in order in this matter , and i would also ask how one aspect of this one-step-at-a-time policy is going , in other words the directive on a single market for additional pensions .
within the framework of this dialogue , on 30 march 2000 i met members of the platform of european ngos and a dialogue took place , which focused on two categories of issues .
but i have one specific question : why are only eight or nine ngos , as far as my information is concerned , funded through these two lines ?
my information is that they are being pushed into project funding and 18 environmental ngos , for instance , are receiving from the commission funding towards their running costs .
we know that in this social field there is a huge number of ngos and it is very difficult for the commission dg to know with which of them they can cooperate .
this is why we must solve the problem of the issue of representativeness , and the issue of the network to be established at european level .
the action plan for employment for 2000 contains these undertakings .
as the author is not present , question no 54 lapses .
questions nos 55 , 56 and 57 will be replied to in writing .
the file , accompanied by a request for a ' certificate of specific character ' , was submitted by the whole virgin honey association and forwarded to the commission by the italian ministry for the environment on 8 september 1995 .
i am very grateful for your precision , commissioner but i have to say that i am not satisfied .
i am aware that , since then , the common position on the directive has been redefined and that parliament is expecting to hold a debate on the subject .
it will then no longer be a problem for us to grant the protection sought by the italian government , or the region concerned .
question no 59 by ( h-0609 / 00 ) : subject : eu funding to coillte according to a european court of justice ruling of august 1999 , coillte has illegitimately received eu loss of income forestry grants under forestry funding regulation 2080 / 92 amounting to  6.5 million from 1993 to 1999 .
i would like to point out that there has been no judgement from the court of justice on this specific issue .
the commission will therefore refuse to co-finance grants paid out , backdated to 1 august 1996 .
what is interesting as well as that the chairman , ray macsharry is a former european commissioner for agriculture and he is still refusing to acknowledge the fact that coillte is a public entity and that it is not entitled to such payments .
however , the findings are not binding on the commission , as we have already mentioned on more than one occasion here in parliament .
as the author is not present , question no 60 lapses .
the commission ' s reform proposals will ultimately serve to implement the european agricultural model in these sectors .
we want to bring the economic , social and environmental goals in these sectors into line with each other .
after all , it is precisely this issue that the enlargement negotiations are focussing on .
question no 62 by ( h-0633 / 00 ) : subject : subsidies for growing tobacco tobacco growing in the european union is subsidised to the tune of millions of euros per year while at the same time over half a million eu citizens die each year of diseases caused by tobacco .
i would remind the house that the commission presented parliament and the council with a report on the common market organisation of tobacco as early as 1996 .
however , this was also because there was evidence to show that subsidising tobacco cultivation has practically no effect on tobacco consumption , and thus on the risk to eu citizens ' health .
this led to radical reform of the tobacco sector in 1998 .
the provisions laid down in the tobacco market organisation can also be supplemented within the framework of the support measures for rural development .
on a final note , i would just like to say that the commission will of course assess the reform measures taken .
we will provide the european parliament with a report on the functioning of the amended market organisation by 1 april 2002 .
in so doing , we are giving some families the opportunity to draw an income from this type of cultivation .
there will be no decline in tobacco consumption until we have succeeded in driving this message home to consumers .
in economic terms , the only way to achieve this is to alter patterns in demand .
thank you very much , mr fischler , for your replies .
in the long term , our fellow european citizens must enjoy high quality water everywhere , whether surface or groundwater .
you are aware that this house wanted our directive to be compatible with the commitments given under international conventions , in particular ospar , as stated in the directive .
the arrangements introduced will clear the way for a list of priority substances to be gradually drawn up every 4 years , that is , priority substances which must be reduced in quantity , and priority hazardous substances , which must purely and simply be eliminated .
we were faced with the problem of producing a rigorous definition of what we called good groundwater status .
in order for this good status to be specified , it was decided that a ' daughter ' directive should be drawn up , that is , a directive that will implement the framework directive .
parliament was rather afraid that the new directive would provide an opportunity to delay requirements to combat pollution and immediate measures to prevent the pollution of groundwater .
so you see , ladies and gentlemen , it seems to me that in this way we have come up with a system that enables us to make significant progress , and not just in terms of the main principles , but also in the overall effectiveness of the decisions that have been made .
the second major task for this house will be the substance of the framework directive on groundwater .
in any event , this is the intention of our directive and i have no doubt that the commission and the member states will ensure that it is implemented .
in june 1995 , and at our group ' s insistence , the european parliament ' s committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy held a hearing of experts on the european union ' s water policy .
by working together closely in this way , parliament and the european commission gradually moved towards a consensus , a process also helped by the intensive discussions during the first and second readings in the european parliament and the conciliation procedure .
i should like once again to make explicitly clear in this connection the particular importance we attach to reconciling community law and international conventions , albeit in such a way that the substance of international conventions does not automatically become legally binding in community law .
in certain respects the directive forms a framework whose contents are still unclear .
all in all , the foundations have been laid for a coherent water policy and for long-term improvements in water quality .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i would like to say that i am making this speech on behalf of mrs garcia orcoyen , who was unable to attend this sitting .
tomorrow 's approval of this framework directive will represent a great step forward on the road to the cohesion and harmonisation of the legislation of the member states with regard to the quantity and quality of their water .
in this last stage of the long parliamentary process undergone by this directive , in particular during conciliation , the european parliament has been able to present a united front in defending its arguments before the council .
the rapporteur 's superb coordination and the will to reach an understanding shown by all the political groups have made this final text possible , and it has been improved in basic aspects such as the legally binding nature of the objectives without omitting to take account of the various problems in the member states .
i must also congratulate the council on its flexibility in the face of the criticisms put forward by parliament , and the commission for its effective mediation .
tomorrow , a new and equally important stage in the directive ' s development will begin , in which the european parliament must continue to participate extremely actively in monitoring and controlling the fulfilment of objectives and deadlines and the drawing-up of reports or legislative acts derived from the directive .
one of the weakest points to have become apparent during the drawing-up stage must be strengthened : the incontestable need for more and better means of technical advice for subjects which , like this , require highly specific knowledge , and in which the social and economic cost of a small calculation error can be great .
finally , i would like to emphasise what makes this directive a real tool for sustainable development : the balance achieved in the consideration of water as an extremely valuable economic resource and as an essential element in the conservation of european ecosystems .
the development of this directive may provide an important meeting point in the much-reviled relationship between economy and ecology .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the water framework directive contains many positive initiatives in favour of comprehensive and integrated water protection .
we cannot wait 30 years for the european court of justice to decide whether or not the environmental objectives are in fact legally binding .
the member states have been called upon to improve the quality of our water quickly in order to achieve the objectives in 15 years ' time .
mr president , the forthcoming water framework directive is based on the justified principle that citizens of the european community are entitled to use drinking water on a daily basis .
the tasks are therefore broadly defined .
mr president , commissioner , it was a very turbulent night sitting in which parliament , the council and the commission agreed upon a common water policy for all member states .
i would like to make two points to emphasise the importance of integrated water management : firstly , i would like studies to be carried out on the establishment of a federal " water and environment " management system in the various countries at european union level , second , we must ensure that the proposals of the directive are implemented and encourage them , not only at european union level , but also in the aid that we give to third countries in the form of " water " projects , the impact of which lies in a hydrographic ecosystem affecting the countries of the european union , but also those that are part of the meda agreements , for example , which must be taken account of in the map projects and even in others , like the upper nile basin or switzerland .
mr president , the commitment that has been obtained on the text of the new water framework directive is generally positive , even though it contains certain controversial aspects , worthy of criticism , which can nevertheless be ironed out when the various studies , action plans and draft regulations provided for in the text we have just approved are drafted .
the new paragraph 4 of article 9 will allow for the continuation of the established practice in ireland of not applying water charges to the domestic water sector .
many have to pay to sink their own pump in ireland and pay the electricity charges .
many are on group water schemes which are not part of the public water supply and have to pay dearly each year for the privilege of rather questionable quality water being distributed to their houses .
we are coming to the end of a long road on which there has been a long battle , long discussions , but in the end , some positive agreements and constructive positions on the part of the three institutions , the council , parliament and the commission , which have made this agreement possible .
as with any agreement , some will think it too little , others too much , but there is a middle point , a balance that is acceptable for the diverging points of view of those who have worked all this time .
in some countries , vast expanses have under 400 millimetres per year , that is , semi-arid zones , while in others the average far exceeds 2 500 or 3 000 millimetres .
the focal point of this directive , in which water is considered as a whole , a total flow , with no distinction between surface and groundwater , which is the mistake that was made for a long time , is the right focal point and implies a step forward .
the effort to keep our aquifers in the european union as clean as possible , or as unpolluted as possible , is a key effort if we want to guarantee balanced development , sustainable development and a habitable europe for future generations .
mr president , i should like to ask the commission what is happening with the 1991 directive on ecological water quality which has so far not officially been withdrawn by the european commission .
it is a problem which the translators could not solve because the text is so specialised .
mr president , with regard to the directive on ecological water quality , to which i believe mrs schleicher is referring , this framework directive incorporates all the essential elements of the proposal on the ecological quality of water and i understand that the latter has already been withdrawn .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
we began with cars and oil and are now faced with the question of what to do with the nine million cars which end up on the scrap heap every year .
this parliament ought also , however , to have had the courage to make a really bold decision in favour of a really new type of car for the future , one which will not weigh 1 500 kg but perhaps only 1 000 kg and which , with its lifetime ' mileage ' of 300 000 km , may be seen to have genuine advantages in terms of environmental policy .
one general point - and also a disputed one in this house - was the question of costs .
we have made exceptions which will be reviewed by the commission in three years ' time for , together with the scientific advisory board , the commission has overall responsibility for making the relevant decisions in this area in three years ' time .
mr president , the compromise that has been reached is a great success for environmental and consumer protection .
it is the first time that manufacturers ' liability for waste has been up for debate at all , and the fact that manufacturers ' liability is soon to become a reality is to be welcomed .
the compromise reached on heavy metals is also a giant step towards an environmentally friendly strategy for dealing with the flow of materials .
what is worth noting , as far as the conciliation process is concerned , is the fact that parliament has unfortunately slowed down this development towards manufacturer ' s liability instead of speeding it up .
lastly , it is important to highlight another point too , which is of a more specific political-institutional nature .
let us be honest , we are all aware that we started the conciliation procedure from very opposed positions - there was even a certain amount of interinstitutional tension between parliament and the council - with many national differences in terms of both experience and interests .
mr president , commissioner , with regard to end-of-life vehicles , we have reached a sound compromise .
for the first time , european legislation defines manufacturer ' s liability in no uncertain terms .
we are now dealing with manufacturer ' s liability in the case of end-of-life vehicles .
unfortunately , the text stipulates that the manufacturer will be wholly or mainly responsible .
we need to move towards individual manufacturer ' s liability .
mr president , it is true that the legislative procedure has been long and difficult , and i have said so .
it should be noted that the commission 's initial proposal was presented in july 1997 .
during this prolonged procedure and in spite of the complexity of the legislation , it has been possible to solve a series of problems thanks to the colegislators and , once again , to the three institutions ' will to come to an agreement .
i am therefore pleased with the agreement on a joint text , reached on 23 may this year at the conciliation committee .
i am sure that the joint text represents a good balance between the need to guarantee a high level of environmental protection and the legitimate concerns of the various participants .
i would , however , like to emphasise three statements that the commission will make when it adopts the directive .
firstly , the provision laid down in article 5 ( 1 ) does not oblige the member states to establish separate collection systems with special funding requirements , but allows them to use the existing waste collection systems .
second , with regard to article 5 ( 3 ) , it is the responsibility of the member states to decide which producers , concessionaries and collectors must be registered in accordance with the framework directive on waste or in a new register created specifically .
generally speaking , this text constitutes a significant step towards sustainable production and consumption , a model for future community initiatives in the field of specific waste management such as , for example , the directive on electrical and electronic waste , to which reference has been made .
many thanks , mr president .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
before coming to the proposals contained in my report , it would be helpful to remind ourselves of some of the key issues in this debate .
essentially , the problem can be expressed very simply : aviation is growing at an unsustainable rate .
in terms of aviation growth , air traffic is forecast to almost double in the next 15 years .
to take a case that i know well in the uk , the government 's own air traffic forecasts which were published in june this year show total passenger numbers at uk airports rising from 160 million in 1998 to 400 million in just over 20 years ' time .
that increase of 240 million is equivalent to four new airports the size of london heathrow or eight new airports the size of london gatwick .
on the contrary , global aviation policies are actually encouraging the unrestrained growth of this sector .
to mention some of the key points of my report very briefly : on noise , current noise standards for new aircraft have actually been in existence since 1977 and there is therefore an urgent need for more stringent standards .
the airlines have been getting away with not paying their way for over 50 years .
the aviation sector is responsible for some jobs but it should not be forgotten that making aviation pay its way in terms of taxation will create thousands of jobs in other sectors .
mr president , i should like to begin by saying that all members of this house care deeply about the environment despite the fact that the rapporteur and members of the greens would have you believe otherwise .
environmental concerns must , however , be balanced against the needs of the aviation industry to ensure its success in the future .
i would like to assist honourable members by pointing out the following information : air transport is responsible for generating 25 million direct jobs world-wide .
if multiplied by the number of countries in the european union one can see and understand just how important this industry is to our economies .
in terms of environmental impact , aviation uses less than 8 % of the land required for rail and less than 1 % required for road use .
over the past 15 years co2 emissions have declined by 70 % and unburned hydrocarbons by 85 % .
they should also tackle land planning around existing airports and take responsibility for their decisions in the past .
to suggest that either a tax on kerosene , which is internationally exempt from tax for the aviation industry , or vat on tickets or aircraft purchases is the answer is incorrect .
i would hope in future the proposals from the commission are thought through more carefully .
the commission statement on aviation and the environment is a first step towards better european legislation .
as stated in the report , we would like international consultation and further research .
since the outcome of this research is uncertain , we support the fall-back position , as formulated in paragraph 20 of the report , in the form of a european environmental levy .
in the final analysis , what matters is for us to follow the kyoto agreements , and aviation should contribute substantially in this respect .
there are specific reasons for this , but something must be done about the matter .
a regional approach is premature at the moment , and i am pleased that the rapporteur has amended a number of her points in the original text to this effect .
it must not serve as a pretext for other objectives in the field of tax or for extending the competence of the commission .
this first step towards a european tax will only affect passengers , once again , without achieving any of this report ' s objectives .
our citizens are already squeezed hard by taxes and , at a time when the member states are trying to reduce taxation , a european tax could put our businesses in a difficult position in relation to their competitors , in particular american businesses or others , with numerous disastrous consequences for employment .
furthermore , we demand that tax subsidiarity in favour of the member states be observed .
the political dependency of the member states depends in large part on their freedom in terms of tax .
on the other hand , air travel has an obvious detrimental effect upon the environment due to exhaust emissions and noise pollution .
the group of the european people ' s party and european democrats in any case calls for a significant reduction in permitted levels of noise pollution - which , in view of the international character of air travel , ought more sensibly to be regulated within the framework of the icao - and for noisier aircraft to be excluded from using european airports following brief transitionary periods .
we hope , and are campaigning for , a situation in which the member states of the european commission will provide a clear mandate .
we have to protect our citizens from unnecessary noise .
mr president , we know that traffic emissions are one of the greatest environmental problems we have and they have also proved to be one of the hardest to get rid of .
in this sense the problems of air traffic are still greater because we have to find global solutions for them .
mr president , i would like to emphasise the importance of the aim to use efficient , alternative transport , in place of short flights , which was mentioned in this report .
this report sets the right tone for this , especially for the benefit of the commission .
despite our positive attitude to this report , there are a number of elements which , in my opinion , do not belong in a report such as this one .
but we need to focus all our efforts on how we can minimise the effects of the rapid growth within this sector on the environment .
in my opinion , the european union should support the icao process .
mr president , commissioner , i think we are all convinced that we have an obligation and a duty to protect the environment and contribute to sustainable development with an environmental policy that has seen its importance increased subsequent to the treaty of amsterdam .
i agree with the commission on drawing up more stringent standards on noise and also on establishing transitional provisions to satisfy the needs of the regions that are confronted with noise pollution problems .
it would also be important to ask the commission to present proposals for the introduction of economic incentives aimed at achieving a reduction of the negative effects on the environment .
naturally , what we do not agree on is the unilateral establishment of tax on kerosene , as a unilateral decision without the backing of the icao would have a minimal impact on the environment , would create legal problems , would damage competition among european airlines and would consequently affect users , who would see their tariffs rise .
it would also be essential that , before taking any measures with regard to the adoption of taxes on the aviation industry , a study should be carried out on the costs and benefits that these measures would imply .
in conclusion , i would like to emphasise the importance of efficient management in the aviation industry in reducing pollutants , placing the emphasis on improving airport management and clearly supporting the creation of a single european sky , by means of which we would also undoubtedly contribute to reducing environmental pollution .
drafting radically new regulations on aircraft noise has to happen globally and under the auspices of icao , and careful , long-term community and town planning consequently has a key role in this .
as we are all aware , the environmental consequences of air transport have recently attracted a great deal of interest .
many citizens living in these areas believe that much more could be done to improve their situation and that is what they are demanding .
furthermore , the long-term impact of gases from air transport on climate change is undoubtedly a cause of concern in the world today , as is the impact of other types of emissions .
the air transport system must therefore be handled globally and coherently , from an environmental point of view , that is , we must also take account of aspects relating to the activity of air transport .
we must try to reconcile interests that are not always easy to reconcile as air transport undoubtedly involves economic interests that are characterised by high investment costs which require a long life span before they are paid off .
but there is no doubt that the public , not only people in the surrounding area who suffer most directly from certain types of pollution such as noise or even emissions , but the public in general , who want sustainable development and quality of life , has a right to demand action from us to guarantee this type of growth that should be the european model .
in its communication on air transport and the environment , the commission maintains that the aviation industry needs to increase its efforts to improve the environmental quality of new aircraft being built .
i know this message is not well received in many parts of the sector but , without a doubt , in the medium and long term there is no solution but to look for an alternative unless we want air transport to become a victim of its own success .
the commission , however , is aware that the air transport sector is correct in saying that before carrying out environmental measures , a serious in-depth study must be done on the economic and social repercussions that these measures will have .
i have the impression that today , those most concerned by the environment are accepting , little by little , but more and more , the fact that in order to develop a definite environmental policy , account must be taken of the balance between the cost and effectiveness of the measures proposed .
the report we have before us considers these fundamental issues and takes account of both the need to reinforce environmental protection beyond routine efforts and the profitability analysis factor .
for example , what she says on kerosene seems to me to be a reasonable way of presenting this problem , which undoubtedly cannot be solved at european level , but at world-wide level and by the icao .
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the support she gives the commission in the report , and say that we find ourselves at a difficult stage of the debate on new noise standards and on legislation which gradually eliminates the noisiest aircraft , within the framework of the icao .
on many occasions , we have indicated our preference for an international solution to these problems , and the commission has noted with satisfaction the positive development of the united states ' stance in relation to the standardisation process that is taking place in the icao .
i have to say that the legislation on the so-called " hushkits " , with regard to the noisiest aircraft , adopted in its day by parliament , the council and the commission , was based precisely on the fact that the united states had adopted unilateral measures outside the icao .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
noise is an environmental and health problem which is underestimated .
vans and lorries produce more noise than ordinary cars .
this is why it is important to make the necessary changes here too , and i hope that a number of the christian-democrat meps will be able to vote in favour of this .
the tyre industry has been given until october 2005 to meet stricter noise limits .
the noise level from ' fluisterasfalt ' [ silent asphalt ] , as it is termed by our flemish friends , or ' zoab , zeer open asfaltbeton ' [ very open asphalt concrete ] , as we like to refer to it in the netherlands , is probably 20 decibels lower than that from cobblestone roads .
our motorways are no longer paved with cobblestones , but a reduction of 3 to 5 decibels is possible by introducing this type of asphalt everywhere .
this means that the noise level can be cut by more than half without reducing the volume of traffic .
more than 10 years ago , the european parliament introduced the first generation of catalytic converters and , two years ago , the second generation of catalytic converters appeared in the langen / hautala report on the motor oil programme .
as a result , air pollution caused by cars and lorries will drop by 70 % to 90 % in 2005 and 2007 .
there are now two major environmental issues left to tackle at european level .
with regard to co2 , the committee on the environment , public health and consumer protection has suggested that the european commission submit a legislative proposal to reduce the rolling resistance of tyres by 5 % .
just in the last three days , the car and tyre industries have indicated in this chamber that their options may well be open when it comes specifically to car tyres .
it is possible , as we shall see in one or two years ' time , that the industry will be able to achieve these objectives of ours by the year 2005 .
mr president , commissioner , it is a well-known fact that you are not entirely averse to cars yourselves and also enjoy driving .
there are already tyres whose specifications are well below the values proposed in the common position when it comes both to tyre noise and to the rolling resistance which is responsible for petrol consumption and co2 emissions .
i am therefore wondering why this parliament cannot summon up the courage to say that whatever is now already state of the art technology is what we demand by 2005 for all tyres , particularly those fitted to private cars .
some of our colleagues are seeking to sabotage this careful work by demanding arbitrary and ill-considered decibel reductions .
in some cases their figures are achievable , in others not .
since the first publication of this directive back in 1997 the manufacturers have moved to meet the commission standards .
firstly , tyre standards are not the only problem .
in many cases a better solution is to change the road surface and not the tyre standards .
secondly - and in my opinion of paramount importance - is the need to balance the problem of tyre noise and tyre safety .
our failure to agree tyre safety standards creates an unacceptable level of uncertainty with regard to this vital question .
for that reason i am particularly concerned about the potential effects of amendments nos 3 and 4 and their impact upon tyre safety , especially for vehicles such as buses and trucks .
the situation will become untenable , however , if there is an attempt to bring in changes too fast , as would seem to be the case on this occasion .
in preparing the proposal , the commission consulted several bodies independent from the manufacturers , who worked with experts from the member states for a long time in order to find the appropriate level of strictness on decibels for the various categories of tyres for cars , vans and lorries .
as a result of this extensive prior consultation of experts , the member states have unanimously approved the level of strictness chosen in the proposal as a common position .
first of all , it should be noted that the quality of the road surface is , to a great extent , up to 6 decibels , responsible for the noise generated by tyre contact .
now , at the second reading , 4 amendments have been tabled .
amendment nos 2 , 3 and 4 propose the reduction of noise thresholds by 2 decibels .
until grip requirements are applied , these three amendments are therefore unacceptable .
this correlation between noise and rolling , tyre grip and fuel consumption is rightly at the centre of the concern expressed in amendment no 1 .
this matter is also the subject of discussion in the transatlantic business dialogue to promote the emergence of a global type standard gts 2000 .
the european commission is following this work with the intention of transposing the results into directive 92 / 23 / eec in order to determine the correct balance between safety , noise and resistance .
it is for these reasons that article 3 , as worded in the common position , stipulates that the requirements on grip and on rolling resistance shall be integrated with the noise requirements in the extended timetable of 24 and 36 months respectively , following the entry into force of this directive .
amendment no 1 , which proposes to legislate again on two occasions within a period of one year after the entry into force of this directive , is not acceptable .
the commission will then be able to amend this directive in order to include grip on dry and wet surfaces and rolling resistance for all categories of tyre .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
mr president , the proposal for a directive which we are debating today is designed to restrict the marketing and use of azocolourants used in fabric dyes and leather goods .
the annex to the directive contains a list of fabric and leather products in which the use of these suspect substances is banned .
several countries have already introduced similar bans in their legislation and most companies established in the european union fall into precisely this category .
however , we need a directive in order to harmonise the internal market and prevent such unilateral regulations .
finally , as is only to be expected , the directive also contains an analytical method for detecting banned azocolourants .
the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy accepts the principle on which this directive is based .
the committee on the environment takes the view that the list of products in which the use of azocolourants is banned , as contained in the annex to the directive , should not be open .
that is the purpose of amendment no 3 .
mr president , commissioner , this is a small and modest report , an amendment to a directive that i , however , believe is an important and significant example of the great success of the awareness and information policies and of the fact that the regulation often comes after society has sorted itself out .
furthermore , as far as i know , people do not normally tend to eat carpets , and therefore this level of risk could be avoided .
i repeat , i believe it is positive for us to work towards progress , for society to be one step ahead of us and that all we have to do is ratify what has already been recognised .
by means of the voluntary stamp of quality and the interim deadline of 1 january 2006 , we have also succeeded in taking account of the special problems presented by the oriental carpets industry and , in spite of these problems , in also including hand-made oriental carpets in the directive in the medium term .
following an opinion of the scientific committee on toxicity , ecotoxicity and the environment confirming such risks , the commission proposed in december of last year a directive restricting marketing and use of certain azocolourants which could pose a risk of cancer if they come into close contact with the skin .
the commission proposal for a directive would introduce a ban on the use of certain azocolourants in textile and leather articles that come into close contact with the skin .
the colourants concerned are xylidines which may release any of the 21 cancer-causing amines listed in the proposed directive .
the proposal provides not only for the protection of consumers ' and workers ' health .
i would stress that the proposal is based on the results of independent studies on the risks of azocolourants and of the costs , benefits and trade effects of the proposed restrictions .
the commission is unable to accept those parliament amendments which would extend this ban by replacing the proposed list of examples of product categories covered by an exhaustive list by covering articles other than those made of textiles and leather and by including other amides .
amendments nos. 3 , 4 and 7 of the committee on the environment are the ones i refer to .
nor is the commission able to accept amendments that would introduce a second testing method to show compliance with the provisions .
this applies to amendment no 5 of the committee on the environment .
the commission can accept in principle an exemption for handmade oriental carpets from the example list of product categories covered by the proposed directive as the risk from such carpets is likely to be low .
however , the commission cannot accept that the exemption is only temporary .
to summarise our point of view , we can accept amendment no 1 of the committee on the environment .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
mr president , the report before us is a position adopted by parliament in response to a communication from the commission on the problems associated with undeclared or illicit work .
this problem is being dealt with at european level because it relates not just to one particular country but to all member states .
the fact is that , by definition and by its very nature , undeclared work is difficult to get to grips with in any country .
on the basis of estimates and long-term investigations , it may be assumed that a total of 28 million people engage in undeclared work .
almost all investigations list unduly high taxes and social security contributions as a cause .
in drawing its conclusions , the committee has , however , come up with a variety of positions derived from the very different evaluations of the various causes .
in the five minutes granted to me , i can present only a number of important points in the report .
the problem is complex and needs to be tackled at a variety of levels .
i would thank all my fellow meps for their splendid cooperation but , above all , the shadow rapporteur , karin jons , for her constant readiness to engage in discussion .
there are some parts i do not like , such as for instance paragraph 13 which promotes tax coordination .
there is another report out today which was an annual report from the commission , referred to in today 's financial times under the wonderful heading " brussels demands labour reform . "
but it also addresses this problem of undeclared work .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , there is a clear need for action on the issue of undeclared work in all the member states , for there have not so far been many successes in combating it .
thirdly , undeclared work is not primarily the result of illegal immigration from third countries .
on the contrary , the majority of those who engage in undeclared work are our own citizens .
in any case , for all of us , illegal and undeclared work constitutes , by definition , an abuse of those who need to work , not least in terms of the tax burden which should ensure solidarity .
however , there are specific recommendations in the report , for example specific procedures which could be implemented in order to fight the scourge of illegal or undeclared work .
i tabled some amendments , which have already been accepted by the rapporteur , and i will therefore not dwell on them .
it is claimed that child labour does not exist in europe , but that it might exist - as has been stated - in italy and southern countries .
in short , we are talking about a form of exploitation in the workplace , which admittedly is detrimental to public finances due to lost revenue from tax and social contributions , but we must never forget that we are talking about the exclusion to which , according to the commission , between 10 and 28 million citizens of the european union are reduced .
lumping together those offering this type of work and those accepting it is inappropriate , even shocking .
integrate undeclared work into the labour market or adapt the job market to the existence of these excessively flexible types of work ?
the serious cases of undeclared work are those that are organised as such .
there is also a tax argument which plays a big part in mrs glase ' s thinking .
we are living in a europe that is increasingly closer to its citizens and therefore we cannot omit to concern ourselves with employment , as employment , together with health , is one of the main concerns of the citizens and , i dare say , especially of those who are unemployed because they have lost their job or perhaps never had one .
the economic causes of undeclared work , increased income for workers , the opportunity to save on tax and social contributions or the reduction in costs for the company , are not unrelated to its existence and a significantly higher rate of growth than that of the legal or official economy .
to refer briefly to the sectors or groups in which undeclared work has the most scope for expansion , we need to include multi-job situations where the income obtained from this illegal work is supplementary ; economically inactive people who have greater flexibility in terms of time and the case of the unemployed who want an additional income , often turning down offers of legal work .
in addition to these easily visible situations , it is assumed that there are also many cases of production decentralisation , outsourcing or subcontracting which , in a less direct , less visible way , can lead to undeclared work .
what we are witnessing , in fact , is the emergence of two productive systems and two social models .
secondly , i think that the general reference to undeclared work or to certain general categories is the weak link in the approach to the problem : we all know that undeclared work cannot be dealt with as a single phenomenon and needs a policy which is differentiated by sector and sub-sector , depending on the people supplying it and the nature of the individual problem .
then there is the matter of bogus self-employment and certain new forms of employment .
failing to declare work is no mere peccadillo .
in germany , for example , work is being lost due to illegal employment and , for every ten thousand jobs , dm 240 million is lost in taxes and social security contributions .
in her splendid and balanced report , anne glase estimates the volume of undeclared work in the eu at between 10 and 20 per cent of gnp .
the commission has opened the debate with its communication on undeclared work in the spring of 1998 .
we are pleased to say that it has stimulated debate both with the european institutions and within member states .
parliament also seems to share the view that the main action has to be taken at the level of member states .
indeed it is the mix of the situation in the labour market , the tax and social security mix , as well as the social acceptance , that determine the level of undeclared work .
the commission is also convinced that undeclared work should be dealt with within the framework of the luxembourg process .
we believe that undeclared work should be actively taken into account in the national action plans for employment .
we welcome parliament 's support in this .
indeed the commission is now carrying out a study on different measures used to combat undeclared work in selected member states in order to identify good policy mixes .
within its possibilities the commission will continue to monitor the situation and report on it within the framework of existing reports on the principle of equal treatment .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . ( the sitting was closed at 11.45 p.m. )
thank you , mr rubig .
the president has very clearly ruled out the possibility of a debate this morning .
secondly , and most importantly , they all began their sporting careers in an amateur club or at a school .
more and more men and women , whatever their age and their circumstances , are taking part in a sport .
in june 1997 , the sports ministers met at the stade de france in paris , and this was followed by meetings in germany , finland and portugal .
then , at feira in portugal , on the occasion of the council meeting in june 2000 , a clear call was made for the specific characteristics of sport to be taken into account in the application of community policies .
it is the wish of the french presidency that we should succeed in defining precisely what these specific characteristics are and what their recognition implies .
this approach is the basis on which my counterparts in the other fourteen member states and i have been working , in close collaboration with commissioner viviane reding .
the first question concerns the protection of under-age sportspeople .
i am very hopeful that , having regard to the 1994 directive on the protection of young people at work , we shall be able to offer the prospect of precise recommendations on this point .
secondly , i also wish to see measures taken to maintain the development policies of sports clubs .
sports federations and governments should be able , if they so wish , to take appropriate measures to protect the clubs that develop young talent .
at the same time , the international sports authorities have a responsibility to take action to control club management in order to avoid excesses , especially in relation to transfers .
thirdly , in the wider context , it seems to me that there is an urgent need to recognise the unique central role played by the federations .
i believe it is necessary to acknowledge the key role of the sports federations in organising sports competitions , in formulating the rules of their respective sports and in awarding titles .
i believe we are caught up in a race against the clock .
mr president , parliament has asked me to make a statement on the transfer system and on the whole panic which has gripped the world of sport and which the press has been echoing .
mr president , i shall respond to the report on doping in sport and sport in society at the end of the debate , if i may .
for the moment i shall confine myself to a statement on the transfer issue .
this report invites the sporting community , the member states and the european union to pool their efforts in order to ensure that sport , in its new economic environment , will continue to act as an instrument of education and integration on the basis of its values of fair play , equal opportunities and the pursuit of merit .
it goes without saying that the provisions of community law , especially those based on the principles of non-discrimination and free movement of persons , as well as the rules of competition , are applicable to sport .
this is the context , ladies and gentlemen , in which the commission , under the direct responsibility of my colleague mario monti , has been examining several aspects of competition as they relate to sport .
the commission recognises that the sporting community is free to determine the rules that will ensure the proper administration of their respective sports .
the commission recognises the specific nature of sport in the sense that some degree of equality is needed in competition between players and clubs so as to guarantee the uncertainty of results , which is the very essence of sport , as the minister has just emphasised .
the commission is investigating only those aspects of sport with a community dimension and an economic dimension .
regarding the matter of current fifa rules governing transfers , i must remind you that , back in 1998 , following a number of complaints , the commission questioned the compatibility of the fifa transfer rules with the rules of competition and sent fifa a list of grievances .
the commission believes that the fifa rules on transfers unfairly obstruct freedom of movement .
this is especially true of the rules which lay down conditions of transfer on expiry of a player 's contract , even though the contract has been duly terminated in accordance with national employment legislation and with its own terms and the contractually agreed financial indemnity has been determined and paid .
contrary to what some press articles have been suggesting , the commission has no intention of simply abolishing the transfer system or of creating a situation in which players would be able to terminate their contracts on a sudden impulse .
the commission , as the guardian of the treaties , wishes fifa to apply a transfer system which complies with the principles of community law as well as respecting the unique nature of sport .
the present system , however , satisfies neither of these criteria .
for many years , ladies and gentlemen , the commission has been waiting ' patiently ' for fifa to present a formula that could replace the present system , to offer a basis on which we could work together in search of a universally satisfactory and equitable solution .
mario monti and i have established contacts with the footballing world .
we have made the point that , under national codes of employment legislation , some form of compensation is warranted when a player breaks his contract with one club in order to join another .
the french presidency , as i said at the start of my speech , has testified to this same attachment to sport and its values on behalf of the council .
the commission is acting in the interests of sport to preserve the beautiful game , and i am convinced that , if we all pull our weight , a satisfactory solution will soon be in sight for the good of sport , for the good of football and for the good of europe .
in fact , the first death from doping took place in 1896 , when a cyclist took drugs .
in fact , we have already heard this morning that it is a priority for the french presidency , the council and also for the commission .
we have to assess why this problem exists and why doping has increased so much in recent years .
on the one hand , it is worth mentioning the over-commercialisation that is affecting sport , as well as the saturation of sporting calendars and greater demands on sportsmen and women , both physical and mental .
on the other hand , we should not forget that , these days , an increasing number of tests are being done , many of them outside competitions , and this also means that , logically , more cases of doping are being discovered .
however , it is very important to distinguish between the two types of doping : on the one hand , there is intentional or planned doping , that is , a team plans which substances the sportsman or woman needs to take , and when , in order to improve his or her physical performance .
on the other hand , there is accidental doping , which often does not even improve the sportsman or woman ' s physical performance .
combating intentional or planned doping is much more difficult .
overall , we need to fight doping globally .
combating accidental doping is much easier .
thus , when buying a drug , sportsmen and women will be able to clearly see the red traffic light indicating the risk of testing positive , or the green light which indicates that there is no risk , or the amber light indicating that there may be a risk and that they should contact their doctor or a specialist for advice .
however , even though the types of doping are different , sportsmen and women receive the same treatment and from the moment that they have a positive result they are considered to be guilty , with no right to prove their innocence and without an assessment of whether the doping was intentional or not , as occurs with other things in life .
we also call on the european commission to request that the fifth framework programme carry out research into doping substances and their impact on the health of sportsmen and women , detection methods and the natural limits of hormones that can be produced by the human body .
with regard to laboratories , it is very important that they comply with iso standards on uniform methods for collecting and analysing samples , and also that there should be protection and confidentiality , both in collection and in dealing with the case , in order to preserve sportsmen and women ' s right to honour and privacy .
sport needs a new definition : indeed , it should be considered as an activity that is an integral part of the education and training of young people , free time and the integration of socially excluded and disabled people .
in short , sport must be an essential factor in promoting the education and integration of all social classes .
the central committee has stated several times that it can no longer guarantee the pyramid structure on the basis of which sporting organisations and the social function of sport are currently organised .
europe must be more forceful in the fight against doping , a phenomenon which , unfortunately , is growing very rapidly and is no longer confined to the world of sport : the spread of this scourge has led to an increase in highly lucrative illegal activities , in which many criminal organisations have been involved , and we need to recognise that entrusting the fight against doping solely to sporting organisations has been a complete failure .
europe should therefore look into the possibility of promulgating community criminal legislation which would be valid in all the member states , and should consider setting up an independent , transparent , european anti-doping agency .
we need to try to improve the role played by sport and the role of the teaching of physical education in the curricula of schools .
moreover , we need to ensure that the statutes of national and international sporting federations lay down mission statements and contain clear , precise rules .
i therefore regret all the more that it has become evident over the last few days that many people in positions of authority in football and other sporting associations are unable to learn lessons and enter into a dialogue .
mr president , ten days before the start of the olympic games , the spectre of doping is hovering over sidney .
minister buffet , who has addressed us so eloquently here today , stated in le monde on 4 august that the basic ingredient missing in the fight against doping was strong political will .
mr president , sport is a popular activity .
the ppe-de is entirely behind this objective and has tabled amendments to give this initiative a boost .
the bosman ruling has mainly hit the smaller clubs , as the commissioner has already pointed out , especially in the smaller countries , such as the netherlands where i am from .
we therefore hope that the commission , in tandem with the sports organisations , will produce proposals which will make amends in the short term .
the sports federations , such as uefa and fifa , have also submitted proposals to this effect .
mr president , madam president-in-office , commissioner , the group of the party of european socialists asked the commission to make a statement on the topical subject of football transfers and for it to be added to this joint debate .
the subject of transfers is perhaps an example that sums up the current situation of sport .
a major club in my native city made the biggest transfer in football history - eur 70 million .
the person involved has said that it is absurd , and the chairman of the club has said that it is in a very grave economic situation .
in the united states in the 1940s , under anti-trust legislation , the same measures were applied in hollywood as those that the commission is proposing .
unfortunately , uk athletes - linford christie , dougie walker and gary cadogan - were not presumed to be innocent by the international athletics association .
the specific status of sport derives primarily from the sports system , from the social pyramid which is reflected in the structure of small clubs in our towns and rural areas as well as in major sporting events .
as far as the system and its focal point , the sportsperson , are concerned , what the reports are calling for is the rationalisation of the specific nature of sport in our european union .
the commission was right to remind us that one of the first causes of the increased prevalence of doping lies in the commercial implications of modern sport .
finally , the reason why sport has assumed an important and indeed a central place in our contemporary societies is perhaps because it has become the only means open to a nation to demonstrate its greatness .
mr president , on the eve of the sydney games , what remains of the olympic ideal and the exalted principles of pierre de coubertin ?
others , especially the sprinters , are proclaiming loud and long that they are only running to promote their particular brand of footwear .
some football clubs are already listed on the stock market .
doping seriously damages athletes ' health as well as the essential virtues of sport , namely honesty , fair play , respect for one 's opponent , friendship , etc .
europe must show its trust in the voluntary bodies by accepting the proposals from the federations and from other olympic committees .
the bosman decision , for example , which was taken in the name of high principles , has destabilised professional clubs and has exacerbated the impact of money on european football .
the latest transfer record , set when figo moved to real madrid , is a case in point .
clubs in certain countries now build their teams almost exclusively with foreign players .
this is particularly true of barcelona , where they are able to field a team without a single spanish player , which effectively makes it impossible for young nationals to play at the highest level in their country .
let us work for a good solution that we can defend rather than working for a solution this afternoon , or this week , or this month .
come up with a good solution and you will have the backing of this house and the backing of football supporters across europe .
for this reason , i believe it is merely a commercial activity which should be distributed evenly .
i would like to know whether you have a response to this .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , no sportsman or woman takes drugs unless he or she has a financial interest in doing so .
the combination of enormous and disproportionate financial , media and sponsoring interests surrounding sportsmen and women puts so much pressure on them , and the intensity of sport is so great , that in order to maintain their level of competitiveness and the pace imposed on them by sporting calendars , sportsmen and women tend to use prohibited substances .
in this sense , i think that we can avert what is happening in the basketball federation today and what we can see will happen in all the other sports tomorrow , and maintain the unity of sport and its contact with society .
i think we all agree on the role and importance of sport which , at both competitive and amateur level , is an excellent tool for the education and social integration of both players and spectators .
precisely to avoid sport being reduced to nothing more than a business , we must call , loud and clear , upon the forthcoming intergovernmental conference at nice to expressly insert a significant reference to the institutional recognition of sport into article 151 of the treaty .
if fifa had done its job , the commission would not have needed to get involved in this .
i hope that fifa recognises that and will now finally come up with something that the commission can include in its proposals , as long as they do not run counter to the bosman judgment .
mr president , after congratulating our colleagues mrs zabell and mr mennea on their reports and the suggestions they contain , of which i very largely approve , i shall make do with two observations .
firstly , i should like to stress the need for community participation in the world anti-doping agency , which would enable the european union to make a vigorous and coherent contribution to the struggle against doping .
secondly , as i did yesterday , i plead again today for the inclusion in the treaty of a legal basis relating specifically to sport .
despite acknowledging that the main reason for the increase in doping is excessive commercialisation , the commission is doing nothing to combat it .
proven cases of doping in sporting competitions have diminished the reputation of many sports in the eyes of the public .
at last , the international olympic committee has faced up to its obligations to combat the widespread use of drugs in sport .
i welcome the ioc 's announcement that heavy penalties will be imposed on sportsmen and women caught using drugs in sydney this month and in the future .
the union must continue to work through the world anti-doping agency to ensure that uniform and structured guidelines are implemented for all sporting activities .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i believe that this debate and the reports are both a step in the right direction .
the council presidency has said that sport is education for life .
this means that insufficient account has been taken of the special hallmarks of sport and its 700 000 clubs , and of voluntary work done in areas like youth work and training for children and young people .
it is therefore both a logical and desirable consequence of all this that sport should be given a legal basis in the treaty .
however , we are also aware that sport can sometimes be accompanied by horrific acts of violence , abominable racist outbursts and unacceptable strident nationalism .
and for all of these reasons , we cannot accept the idea that sport should be considered in its economic dimension alone .
voluntary organisations and individual volunteers are every bit a part of the sporting world , and it is surely thanks to them that sport is alive in our countries and that mass sport will be able to survive in future .
the protection of young sportspeople is a priority of the french presidency .
the financial and political commitment of all the countries of the european union to the world anti-doping agency is imperative , but it is not enough .
france has marked out the path , and i should be interested to know how the president of the council sees the interaction between the agency and national initiatives .
we must also combat the excesses of the transfer system , especially the trade in young professional sportsmen .
young people must be the main target in the rehabilitation of sport .
the time has come for politicians and sporting authorities to exercise their responsibility .
i wish , first of all , to express my thanks and congratulations to the two rapporteurs for their excellent work , and i should also like to highlight the action of our colleague doris pack , who paved the way for the negotiation of the protocol on sport which is annexed to the treaty of amsterdam .
i am personally shocked by the ease with which young sportsmen and women can supply themselves with performance-enhancing drugs , without being checked at all , through the internet or in certain countries of the european union .
the european commission is questioning the system of transfers between clubs , believing it to be contrary to players ' freedom of movement .
the abolition of transfers will induce agents to break their clients ' contracts several times in the course of a year in order to earn new commission each time a new contract is signed .
the system of agents must be brought under control by the union , or perhaps even scrapped .
the importance of sport and exercise both for societies and for individuals must not , however , get buried under professionalism and commercialism .
finally , i would like to turn your attention to the need to improve levels of gender equality in sport and exercise .
the european woman and sport network conference held in june in helsinki made recommendations which i hope will be taken into consideration at both national and union level .
it is incomprehensible why sport lacks a legal base in the european union .
we have to find a balance in the question of televising the most important sports events , one between the economic power of the organisers on the one hand , and the so-called public service principle on the other .
because we are all concerned about the excesses that occur in sport , it is very understandable that we have been focusing on those excesses , but it must also be stressed that the vast majority of the men and women who are involved in sport - participants and voluntary officials in local sports clubs and in sports associations - are men and women with a high regard for the values of sport , advocates of the sporting ethic who want sport to be a means of individual and collective development .
setting aside the excesses , we should also be aware that , in the world of association football for example , only one per cent of all players registered with the international federation of football associations are professionals .
so , the underlying causes have to be tackled , and without delay ; i believe the accent must be placed on controls , on sporting sanctions and on action against the supply chains .
concerning the specific question that was asked , i believe it is absolutely essential that each member state and the european union as a whole should work on a sort of convention which would be signed between the states and wada , the world anti-doping agency , to facilitate the work of wada in all countries , whatever their current legislation .
on the question of transfers , allow me to give my position and the position of the french presidency .
i am not in favour of maintaining the status quo , because we are familiar with the huge excesses which it has created and which have no economic , social or sporting justification .
in the past 48 hours , fifa has made some extremely constructive and interesting proposals , which , if adopted , would serve to protect the youth-development system and individual rights , as well as satisfying the clubs ' need to build and train teams .
finally , you may rest assured that the french presidency , having listened to you , will proceed with great determination towards the establishment of a solid basis for the recognition of the specific status of sport and in the fight against doping .
mr president , madam president-in-office , ladies and gentlemen , let me begin by thanking all the political groups for the support they have expressed for the action of the commission on the issue of the transfer rules .
we shall enter into dialogue now with a view to finding , along with the european football chiefs , a negotiated solution in the form of a new transfer system which is in the interests of football and is consistent with the european treaties .
i am also gratified , mr president , to note that the two communications issued in december 1999 have generated very lively interest and very broad support .
the concerns expressed by the president of the council are also those of parliament and are the same concerns which the commission has expressed in its two communications .
these are common lines of action ; each of us in our respective spheres and all of us together must pursue our efforts to ensure that concrete action is taken in each of those areas .
i hope that the declaration planned by the french presidency for the meeting of the european council in nice can help to define more clearly the specific character of sport .
doping in sport is not simply an ethical problem .
the support plan you have been examining is more or less the outcome of this work - a provisional outcome , admittedly , because it is only one stage in a longer process .
firstly , with regard to the initial objective , the commission requested the opinion of the european group on ethics , which was delivered on 11 november 1999 ; the group proposed a number of measures , and the commission will take these into consideration in its future actions .
i hope , ladies and gentlemen , that the efforts currently being undertaken by the french presidency will lead to the creation of this unanimity and that the community will be able to participate in the work of the agency , not only in a financial sense but also , and especially , in the formulation of ideas and political inputs .
lastly , the commission has to mobilise the resources at its disposal for the fight against doping .
it is essential , for instance , to ensure maximum coordination of policies and regulatory measures .
the adoption of a recommendation on sport and doping is also planned for this autumn .
moreover , the commission is funding a research project which ought to lead to the standardisation of procedures in the european laboratories that specialise in the fight against doping .
contacts have also been established with the new commission departments devoted to justice and home affairs , since , as your report rightly indicates , new opportunities are arising to deal with the doping issue in the framework of legislation for the suppression of drug trafficking .
finally , you will easily understand that , in the departments under my responsibility , namely education , vocational training and youth , the programmes that have been prepared will play a significant part in informing young people , raising their awareness of the issues and enlisting their aid in the fight against doping .
i believe that all of this is only one stage in a process , that more is expected of us , and i am convinced that the zabell report will serve the commission as a signpost and a landmark , both in its present activities and in its future initiatives .
mr president , allow me now to highlight the helsinki report and the social dimension of sport .
in that respect , the report is fundamental , and i thank parliament for having played a crucial role in its development .
in 1997 , in fact , parliament called on the commission to prepare a community initiative in the domain of sport , and in that same year a declaration on sport was annexed to the treaty , calling on the european institutions to consult with the sports associations before proceeding to deal with any major sports issue .
ladies and gentlemen , in my opinion , sport is in good health , maybe even in very good health .
if we consider the revenue from television rights or from the sale of sportswear and sports equipment , we have to conclude that sport has never been on a sounder economic footing .
since 1989 , the commission has been regularly proclaiming its belief in respect for the autonomy of the sports organisations .
and as long as the principles of solidarity and the social function , on which the european parliament has laid emphasis , are clearly respected , we can provide for derogation in specific instances from the rules of competition , for example in connection with the collective sale of television rights .
it must be perfectly clear , however , that a blanket exemption from these rules can never be warranted .
the second level is that of the national authorities .
the feira european council asked the commission to take account of the specific characteristics of sport and of its social dimension .
there are nearly 600 000 sports clubs in europe and 60 % of young people who are members of an association belong to a sports club .
and among the aspects i think are of major interest , i believe that the role and quality of physical education in schools come top of the list .
and i am convinced that we must make a special effort to protect young athletes more effectively .
to that end , the commission has sent the member states a questionnaire , asking them about methods to protect the health and education of young athletes , and i intend to submit a draft recommendation to the member states on improving the protection of the education and health of young sportsmen and women .
as i have often told you , i am involved in performing high-wire acrobatics right now , without a safety net , and an article could provide the safety net i dream of .
neither an article nor a protocol could , in themselves , resolve all the problems of sport .
but as your rapporteurs and many speakers have pointed out , the kind of article you are envisaging , similar to the one on education and culture that fully respected the subsidiarity principle , is , in my view , worth serious consideration .
i intend to submit a communication to the commission on proclaiming the year 2004 the european year of sport . ( applause ) why 2004 ?
it would also show that europe is a real force in terms of fair play , sport for all , and sport for the citizen .
it is with that in mind , ladies and gentlemen , that , like your rapporteurs , olympic champions that they are , i hope that those men and women who will be making superhuman efforts in sydney in a few days ' time will all be winners , because true sport , fair play in sport , is not a question of coming first but of surpassing one ' s own limitations .
the debate is closed .
secondly , this act occurred on the same day that the majority of heads of state and government were meeting in new york at the millennium summit organised by the united nations itself , which demonstrates the weakness of this organisation and of the instruments at its disposal to protect men and women far from their own countries who were simply endeavouring to defend human rights and the rights of refugees .
we understand the difficulty of the situation in indonesia , but it is essential to demand that the indonesian government should exercise its authority on its own territory .
mr president , i would like to associate myself with the comments made by my fellow portuguese members on the situation in timor and to call on the commission , the council and the president of the european parliament to do everything in their power to make indonesia respect the resolutions which have been adopted on this subject and to respect the commitments it has made to defend the people of east timor and the refugees in west timor .
i know that viviane reding is a very robust parliamentarian , as well as now a commissioner and i am sure she managed to cope with it , but i take the point .
explanations of vote- lienemann report ( a5-0214 / 2000 ) this report has some positive aspects , in particular the restatement of the binding nature of the proposed measures to protect water quality .
that time-limit is equivalent to authorising undertakings to discharge their toxic substances for another 20 years .
this directive provides a framework for consolidating legislation which has been in existence at national and european level concerning the whole area of the safety of surface water and ground water .
the european council , which represents the fifteen governments of the eu , originally did not include any provisions relating to the elimination of hazardous substances in this new water directive .
as a result of the implementation of this directive , the safety of water quality standards in europe will substantially improve . . ( de ) with its communication " pricing policies for enhancing the sustainability of water resources , " the european commission is seeking to harmonise and give practical form to the economic provisions of the ec framework directive on water resources .
furthermore , the provisions on the charging of environmental and resource costs associated with water use are aimed at those member states that still make excessive use of and pollute their water resources , and therefore not at germany , where exceptional efforts are already being made in this respect .
ever since 1997 the european parliament has been calling for the piecemeal nature of water legislation in europe to be brought to an end .
the conciliation between parliament and the council of ministers , the final stage in the legislative procedure , has enabled what i consider a balanced and satisfactory compromise to be reached .
the ppe / de group has always taken an ambitious and realistic stance .
the objective is gradually to eliminate discharges of hazardous substances , within 20 years of their identification .
that kind of project complies with the principle of regional cohesion and solidarity that we have always upheld .
the binding commitment the european union has made to its member states to eliminate discharges of hazardous substances into water within 20 years is certainly a step forward , even if 3 years are enough for certain chemical products .
in that specific case , priority should be given to water management and the water savings that can be made , before massive projects to transfer water from one hydrographic basin to another are proposed .
this directive represents a step in the right direction , but there will have to be more precise rules to reduce water pollution upstream .
florenz report ( a5-0212 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted in favour of the conciliation committee ' s definitive decision on the directive on end-of-life vehicles .
all vehicles within the european union must now be fully recyclable by the year 2015 .
there is an obligation on manufacturers to bear the whole or a large part of the cost of implementing these measures and for them to take back end-of-life vehicles at no charge to the last owner .
it was agreed at conciliation between the european parliament and the fifteen governments of the eu that this provision should now apply from 1 january 2007 .
the proposal for a directive on end-of-life vehicles , submitted in 1997 , is aimed at preventing the creation of scrap from vehicles and promoting the re-use , recycling and recovery of vehicles and their components , so as to reduce the amount of scrap produced by end-of-life vehicles that are dumped or incinerated without any energy recovery .
the european commission ' s strategy is based on measures such as increasing the percentage of re-usable components , ensuring an adequate number of collection points for end-of-life vehicles , achieving a number of objectives regarding the re-use and recovery of end-of-life vehicles , checks on the use of certain heavy metals in vehicle manufacture and ensuring that the cost of disposing of end-of-life vehicles is not borne by the last owner .
on the question of heavy metals , the council and parliament have agreed that vehicles put on the market after 1 july 2003 should no longer contain heavy metals such as cadmium , lead or hexavalent chromium .
the council of ministers has , in fact , remained inflexible about allowing the owner to return his end-of-life vehicle free of charge .
the amendment i tabled and supported has , in fact , been fully incorporated into the final text .
but are we really sure that less noisy tyres are really in everyone ' s best interests ?
we are aware of the progress made in road holding , in resistance to wear and tear , in reducing fuel consumption , but for known technical reasons the investments in research and technology do not yet allow all the rapporteur ' s demands to be reconciled .
the reason people die in africa , as in many poor countries , of malaria , bilharzia , tuberculosis or even just measles is not because of religious obstacles but because the people who are ill can afford neither medicines or care .
this resolution , in fact , does away with any idea of public service in considering that this sector , like others , should be based on ' an open market economy with competition ' .
human cloning : mr president , the majority of the group of the greens / european free alliance has voted in favour of this resolution .
in the debate in the chamber yesterday on cloning , i heard a number of people more or less clearly defending cloning for the purposes of medical treatment , on the grounds that this would be quite different from cloning for reproductive purposes .
researchers throughout the world have said that parkinson ' s disease and other serious illnesses can perfectly well be cured by other methods .
we also heard emma bonino say that politicians must take risks , but we in the group of the greens / european free alliance believe that it is our absolute duty as elected representatives to identify the risks and to be careful .
we must observe the precautionary principle , in this case more so than ever .
i was one of the 237 meps who voted for the resolution tabled by the group of the european people ' s party and european democrats on human cloning .
mr president , this morning our group discussed our attitude to paragraph 5 of the motion for a resolution on cloning , which states that there can be no difference made between cloning for reproductive purposes and any other sort .
in either case it is being used as a tool , as something to use , and not as a living being with intrinsic value .
we believe that , without wasting any time , what we can do today on such a complicated and difficult issue is to set up a temporary parliamentary committee on bioethics to give us the basis for a substantiated , in-depth discussion of the problem of medical embryonic research resulting from human cloning .
the cloning of embryos for research purposes , or even the mere use of surplus embryos for these purposes , would amount to crossing an invisible boundary beyond which the exploitation of human life would become acceptable .
one solution to this dilemma would be to speed up research into the possibility of obtaining stem cells from adult organs , which could be clearly earmarked for therapeutic purposes , as called for in the resolution tabled by our fellow members , elisabeth montfort and nicole thomas-mauro .
article 3 of the draft , as it stands , confines itself to prohibiting ' the reproductive cloning of human beings ' , i.e .
given the present state of our knowledge and of the ethical debate , and in view of the uk government ' s unacceptable authorisation of human cloning , the first thing we must seek is a total and absolute moratorium on all experiments in human cloning .
the socialist group is not calling strongly enough for an immediate stop to all human cloning .
the ppe group seems to be making a final judgment on such sensitive points of discussion as the distinction between reproductive and other cloning .
it was a good thing that our parliament took a clear stance on these abuses and thus , even if against the wishes of some of its members , opted for life . - ( de ) i abstained in the vote on the ppe / greens / efa motion for a resolution on human cloning .
the biggest risk is not inherent in the power of science but in the erroneous and uncontrolled exploitation and application of science .
we could make serious progress if we implemented the commission ' s proposal to apply the principle of ' reward the best and punish the worst ' to air transport in europe , drawing a clearer line of demarcation between the various activities on the basis of their quality in environmental terms .
nor are there enough practical measures to encourage aviation to pay more respect to the environment .
according to a study conducted under the eu ' s fifth environmental action programme , 80 million people in europe are exposed to noise levels that scientists regard as intolerable , while another 170 million are exposed to disturbing noise levels .
the icao has initiated a process of revising noise levels .
according to forecasts , these emissions will rise by 3 % a year over the period 1992 to 2015 .
europe ' s measures to reduce greenhouse gases are being blocked by the fact that it has excluded air transport , a major co2 producer , from the kyoto protocol and the plans to reduce pollutants .
for this reason alone , aviation can win the unfair competitive battle against the railways , which have lost a large part of their share of international passenger transport to other modes of long-distance travel , especially aviation .
we share most of the points of view presented in this about the need for a more vigorous policy to combat the negative effects of aircraft upon the environment .
as a result , it fails to deal with immediate priorities and , more importantly , only addresses in vague and general terms the problem of permissible limits on emissions of greenhouse gases and the definition of new , or at least improved , standards and rules which need to be applied at local and regional level and promoted at international level .
the commission proposal is mainly money-driven .
zabell report ( a5-0203 / 2000 ) mr president , this report refers to the fight against doping in sport .
unfortunately , the international sporting authorities have not been able to halt or even combat this extremely serious scourge .
it is a shame that europe has not understood this , and that today and over the coming years it will find itself involved in a very tough fight , where it will have to use much more incisive , firm and hard-hitting means .
accordingly , the involvement of the community in fighting the use of doping should be low-key .
the sports sector is organised in its own unique way and national federations and unions still play a key role in this .
consequently , i do not agree with the request to include a reference to sport in article 151 of the eu treaty .
doping in sport runs totally counter to that ideal .
i therefore support the inclusion of a legal basis in the treaty that would allow for community action in the field of sport .
i know that this issue is giving rise to much discussion , which will in fact help fuel the debate to be held in the european sports forum in lille on 26 and 27 october .
i think it is also vital to launch information campaigns on the risks associated with doping products .
mennea report ( a5-0208 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the mennea report on sport because it contains a large number of positive elements and , in particular , because it highlights the importance of continuing the current practice of organising sporting events for disabled people .
mr president , i would like to thank the members who voted for my report .
nor did high-level sport produce dozens of cases of rape and sexual attacks in the olympic village in atlanta ; and french tennis champion , nathalie tauziat , who wrote a book criticising the very emotionally charged atmosphere behind the scenes of the tennis courts , was obviously eliminated from the french team selection in sydney in the name of the team spirit and significant social values fostered by sport , according to mr mennea , the rapporteur for the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport .
mrs maes , iran is to be covered in the debate on human rights , as is the temelin nuclear power station .
this awareness-raising process has been set in motion , not least thanks to - and i would like to stress this here - those directly involved : russian citizens and social organisations with a sense of responsibility .
the nuclear contamination of the village muslyumovo , in the southern ural , with plutonium - and this is as long ago as 1949 - is a poignant example of this utterly reprehensible behaviour .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party is deeply touched by the recent disaster involving the kursk submarine and shares in the grief of those left behind and the russian people .
mr president , our prayers and sympathy go to the 118 sailors and their families .
the most important point is to educate and support all democratic forces , all the independent media , the administration , the judiciary , and young politicians , especially those in local government , so that russia becomes a partner with whom we can safely live together in eurasia .
mr president , as other members have already said , the kursk accident demonstrates that even ten years after the end of the cold war , military objectives are still considered more important than human life .
in order to show that it is not all one-sided , i am bound to refer to the situation of the british submarine which broke down on 12 may in sicily and has been in gibraltar , the only british colony in the mediterranean , since 19 may .
the situation is causing a great deal of alarm among the population , because , according to the royal navy ' s own regulations , within a radius of 10 kilometres there is danger , within 100 kilometres there is still potential danger , and the submarine may only be repaired in category ' x ' docks .
the docks in gibraltar are type ' z ' .
in my opinion , the fact that the gue group is now tabling amendments which attempt to divert the attention away from this disaster by introducing a regional problem of a completely different nature displays very little taste indeed .
however , we must add immediately that , in order to gain credibility , the european parliament and the european union in general cannot ignore the fact that within its own territory there is a situation of serious nuclear risk as the result of a submarine accident , even though it is not , of course , of the tragic nature of the case of the kursk .
but this is not a matter of domestic policy , but one of european security , it is a matter of european decency and i am raising it here in order to provoke a reaction from this parliament and from the authorities of the union in general in order to remedy this intolerable situation .
we would also like to express our concern - as other speakers have done - because , unfortunately , the matter that we were to discuss , that of the very serious , terrible and fatal accident of the submarine kursk has led us to deal with the problem of a nuclear submarine in mediterranean waters , in european union territory , in a british colony .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , as has been said , a british nuclear submarine has been moored at its gibraltar base since 19 may .
moreover , the united kingdom has knowingly failed to comply with community regulations in terms of radiation protection , exposing its citizens in gibraltar and those in algeciras bay to a very high probability of contamination , as it is now , and not last may , that it is recognising the extent of the breakdown .
in this case , there has been a violation of community law .
i suppose that the booing that we received from some british members when we criticised the situation in this house was also directed at the citizens of gibraltar .
in this house we criticised the lack of information for the population in the area and of reliable and official news from the united kingdom .
in the same way , we criticise something which is a reality : the united kingdom , faced with considerable social pressures in the country , has decided to transfer its base for nuclear submarine operations and repairs to algeciras bay , without respecting its own standards , which do not allow it to have this type of base in highly populated areas .
equally , we deplore the contemplative attitude of the spanish government , which only reacted when the pressure and concern reached a maximum .
the commission considers that the international community should offer the necessary assistance to russia .
improved radioactive waste management in north-west russia is one of the explicit priorities included in the new tacis regulation covering the next seven years .
the commission welcomes any action that would increase the budget funding to be used to reduce the ideological threat in north-west russia and in particular to enable laid-up nuclear submarines to be dismantled more quickly than 10 of the north fleet 's 100 disused nuclear submarines moored at various based in north-west russia have been dismantled so far .
the lack of storage capacity for spent nuclear fuel remains one of the major bottlenecks in dismantling operations as a whole .
the commission is also involved in a number of studies aiming to improve radioactive-waste management in north-west russia .
it has been raised by five members in this house and he has not said anything about it .
discussion of other subjects would have to be covered by other means and under a different agenda item .
the conference of presidents decided to also include the subject of the submarine in gibraltar in the agenda .
the vote will take place today , at 5.30 p.m .
as soon as the cease-fire is achieved , the burundi refugees must be able to count on help from the international community to provide them with a safe shelter in burundi .
on a final note , for lasting peace in burundi , it is crucial that peace in the congo region is established .
finally , mr president , i do believe that europe should resume the provision of semi-structural aid , especially in the areas of education and health care .
without even going back to the responsibility of the former belgian colonial power deliberately sustaining and exacerbating the hostilities between the two ethnic groups in the two countries , today the part that both french and british interests played in the civil war is public knowledge , just as it is public knowledge that the french army was directly responsible for mobilising and arming the hutu extreme right , which was responsible for real genocide .
mr president , over one hundred years ago , european colonial powers divided tribal lands in africa to establish national boundaries .
the eu must insist that neighbouring countries do not interfere in burundi and eu aid to them should be conditional on their cooperation .
this parliament and the european commission can help burundi and this resolution is a very good step in that direction .
the commission welcomes the signature of the peace accord as an important preliminary step in the long and difficult process of negotiations to end the conflict between burundi 's majority hutu and minority tutsi population .
however , as has been said in this discussion , some very important questions are still open , such as that of the cease-fire , which is the main gap in the agreement , the amnesty , the composition of the national assembly , the duration of the agreement and the transitory government leadership - no minor issues .
two tutsi parties added their signature to the agreement on the following day .
cease-fire talks are organised for 20 september in nairobi .
the regional presidents moi and thabo mbeki stress their importance .
beyond a eur 48 million rehabilitation programme whose implementation has started , the ec is finalising the procedures for the release of eur 50 million stabex funds to relaunch the rural economy .
finally , the commission is going to hold an informal donor meeting at technical level in brussels on 15 september .
coordination is extremely important because we are still in a situation where the right balance and the right kind of signals to the parties in the process in burundi are as important as the euros we are mobilising .
the vote will take place today , at 5.30 p.m .
but the people in those camps would prefer to be re-settled back in their homelands and not have that money .
that is what we are doing here today .
this was clearly demonstrated to us during our visit to the region , and our resolve to continue to encourage an agreement now between bhutan and nepal is as strong as ever .
the influx of bhutanese refugees into nepal began in late 1991 and the fear of diminishing international attention , therefore , is always present .
in new york , the united nations millennium summit is taking place as we speak and it offers the prime ministers of bhutan and nepal an opportunity to come together and to demonstrate their commitment to the ideas of peace and tolerance by agreeing to an early solution to the problem of bhutanese refugees in nepal .
aside from this question , i want to draw attention to a matter that concerns us all and concerns our future .
yesterday we voted for the galeote quecedo report on a common community diplomacy , which in the end was reduced to a report on a future college of common diplomacy .
the assistance from the european union and the international organisations is quite respectable , but no one can guarantee long-term financial aid at that level .
bhutan and nepal are not neighbours , but they are close to each other in spirit .
both are aware that lasting conflict will paralyse their national and economic progress .
the undertakings given by the bhutanese foreign minister when he visited us in brussels on 8 june have been honoured , as crucial negotiations began mid-year .
nevertheless , the largest democracy in the world does have the greatest influence in the region and bears some humanitarian responsibility here .
mr president , the group of the greens / european free alliance can only lend its firm support to this resolution which , as the members who have direct experience of this tragic situation have said , shows our institution 's concern for a region which may well be far away but whose human tragedies cut us to the very heart .
the european parliament has been calling for this for a long time and we must continue to urge it .
asean is simply a grouping of totally different countries , with widely diverging interests and no prospect of integration .
we must encourage forms of integration based on democracy - which is absolutely not the case with this kind of country - and therefore promote and encourage our bilateral relations with the countries that respect democracy and want to strengthen democracy and the rule of law , and pursue an extremely tough policy towards countries like burma .
the people ' s republic of china is currently encircling india : that is a real fact , an actual fact .
the explosion will hit not just asia , but in the end will also affect europe and the european union .
all these people are in an unacceptable situation .
therefore , the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party supports the proposals of the corresponding resolution and , in particular , i would like to draw attention to paragraph 8 , which asks that both the united states and the commission and the council impose the appropriate political and economic sanctions as long as there is no process of democratisation in burma .
mr president , we are once again debating the difficult situation in which burma ' s elected president finds herself , as well as the aggression displayed by that country ' s military regime .
people elsewhere have commented : look at mrs aung san suu kyi .
aung san suu kyi has asked for sanctions but we have done absolutely nothing about this .
in september 1999 , james mawdsley , from the north-east of england was sentenced to 17 years ' solitary confinement in a burmese prison .
british government ministers and staff have been making constant efforts to draw the attention of the burmese authorities to his plight , but with no success .
mr president , i would like to make it clear that the fact that iran has been replaced by burma in the debate on human rights does not mean that my group is not deeply concerned about the human rights situation in iran .
we are certainly still pinning our hopes in san suu kyi .
her continuing campaigns show that her voice cannot be silenced and that we in europe , therefore , also have a duty to do everything to ensure that her voice is heard not only here in europe , but also in america and above all in asia .
we must call on our partners , the asean states , but also other states in asia to do everything to bring about a change in this ' transitional government ' as it so cynically still calls itself .
brendan forde mr president , this parliament has discussed the situation in colombia many times .
the eu has spent a considerable amount of time and energy on tearing down borders and creating a single market .
let us together ensure that the summer of 2000 is the last summer with chaos in the skies over europe .
mr president , madam vice-president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , there has hardly ever been such a topical report as this one .
just in time before the summer break , when everyone goes on holiday and more and more people also travel by plane , today parliament is considering questions of air traffic .
eurocontrol must satisfy all these safety requirements , but that means we also have to create the necessary framework conditions .
we must make it very clear that not all delays are due to the management of air traffic ; almost half of all delays are due to air companies , airports and sometimes weather conditions .
however , it is the case that 50 % , or perhaps a little more , of delays are due to problems in the management of air traffic .
in any event , we must make the military and civil use of airspace more flexible , improve the efficiency of management and provide air traffic controllers , who are currently working in very complicated circumstances , with an easier environment which will allow them to do their work more effectively .
the ' single european sky ' initiative in no way implies the removal of eurocontrol .
on the contrary , eurocontrol is absolutely essential ; it is an essential element which must be strengthened and supplemented since , within the european union , we can go much further than the scope of eurocontrol .
furthermore , ladies and gentlemen , we must think in terms of a strong european common regulator and we must forget - because , of course , it is not going to appear in the commission ' s communication or proposals - the controversy , which in my view is artificial , between privatisation and non-privatisation .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
it is out of date because the 1952 ilo convention has just been revised and there is an expectation that most countries in the world will substantially improve their maternity protection .
but not everything is out of date , because in terms of organisation of work , there have been shortcomings in transposing the directive and even greater shortcomings in implementing it .
by way of example , i must tell you that in some countries , not even a minimum period of recuperation is allowed for the mother , which the experts say should be around 45 days for a normal birth for a woman working in a normal job .
nevertheless , there are countries that are not complying with these rules at all , on the pretext that they are guaranteeing women a choice .
we think that women must be guaranteed the option of enjoying an appropriate period of maternity leave , which they can share with the father , but that the leave should be assessed and guaranteed according to the risk to her own health .
furthermore , this directive does not provide for a link between its own risk assessment provisions and other directives , particularly the framework directive on risk assessment and information for workers .
the commission ' s report on the 1992 directive is only concerned with the technical transposition of the directive and does not look at the situation at the workplace , which has to some extent changed , or at the changed role of women in society .
the commission must submit a proposal for revision of the directive that takes account of all these changes , and it must do so as quickly as possible , this very year .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , today we are debating the implementation of council directive 92 / 85 / eec of 19 october 1992 , which is one of the most important directives in the field of the technical and health protection of workers .
really it is very sad for a society to find we have to pay much greater attention to this area in particular .
with a view to eastward enlargement and protection in those countries , let me also point out that the single market must not lead to discrimination against pregnant women and new mothers .
madam president , commissioner , i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her thorough , responsible and unreserved report .
the 1992 directive , whose implementation in the member states we are assessing today , is intended precisely to introduce minimum measures to encourage the improvement of the health and safety of pregnant women and women who have recently given birth and are breastfeeding .
the commission 's evaluation report shows that the directive has proved its utility in that it has been of some benefit in a number of member states in certain areas of the issue , such as leave on grounds of health and safety , etc .
the delay in the production of an evaluation report - and i would remind you that , precisely because of the low minimum standards set , italy was only persuaded to approve the directive on the condition that its implementation would be monitored very soon afterwards - should have led the commission to put forward a proposal to revise the directive , particularly in relation to certain aspects referred to by the rapporteur : the length of maternity leave , the increase in the duration of maternity leave where risks are involved , a more precise definition of the concept of an adequate allowance , the prohibition of dismissal of women during pregnancy or maternity leave with effective penalties , the prohibition of any form of discrimination with regard to women 's careers or the improvement of working conditions , the implementation of all the measures necessary to safeguard the health and safety of woman and unborn child , without prejudice to the woman 's right to work or her career and encouraging breastfeeding through diverse measures .
we have a directive from 1992 which establishes minimum rights for maternity leave and women ' s entitlements to financial compensation when they are absent from the labour market due to childbirth .
the existing rules make for great flexibility , and most countries guarantee women better conditions than the common regulations require .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the european commission is required to submit a directive proposal on measures for workers during pregnancy , birth and breastfeeding by the end of 2000 .
we are asking for the rights of pregnant and breastfeeding women to be extended .
mr president , at a time when europe , with the beijing + 5 conference in new york , is emphasising its pioneering role in the implementation of the principle of equality between men and women , it seems equally important to guarantee their freedom .
this freedom is achieved through a right to specific protection for women , a right that is always related to their bodies , in particular to maternity and , more specifically , pregnancy .
we do not view pregnancy as a social resource and there is one other point on which we would like to see a separate vote in order to improve the report .
lastly , i would urge all christian-democrat members to endorse this report by my socialist colleague .
mr president , i wish at this point to express my disappointment at the commission ' s failure to adopt any position on the revision , assessment and notification of directive 92 / 85 on maternity protection as yet .
the european community must strive to gain the support of applicant countries to ensure that awareness is raised as rapidly as possible , so that the measures recommended in this report can be adopted , since there may be greater resistance in those countries , which could be difficult to overcome .
lastly , i wish to sound a warning about point 9 of this report , because measures for protecting new mothers , such as very long maternity leave , may have unwanted effects , as it may become disadvantageous for employers to employ women , and they may consequently prefer to take on men .
according to the commission ' s assessment , the situation regarding the health and safety of pregnant women looks fine , but that is certainly only on paper , for is that also the way it looks in reality ?
the commission must go back to the drawing board , set to work again and table the necessary proposals .
the damiao report contains many good proposals , but we in the swedish liberal party still have fundamental objections to the report .
every member state should have full responsibility and the right to make its own decisions regarding its social security systems .
i know several women who have gone back to work earlier - there must be freedom of choice !
as a matter of fact , in the discussions held in the parliamentary committees , we tabled various amendments designed to guarantee the statutory right to take breaks from work for breastfeeding , to ensure non-discrimination in the workplace against pregnant women and women who have just given birth or who are breastfeeding , particularly in terms of salary , and to guarantee career progression and employment , with particular emphasis on the situation of working women who have temporary or atypical contracts .
i hope that parliament will adopt this amendment .
mr president , madam vice-president of the commission , the incorporation of women into the labour market means that at some time their working life will coincide with a pregnancy , which sometimes means that they are obliged to take additional leave so as not to endanger their own health or the health of the unborn child .
pregnancy is a natural state for women which society must respect , defend and protect .
society must care for working women in particular by ensuring that they remain in their jobs .
the protection of maternity and breast-feeding cannot be considered as a form of unequal treatment between men and women , since maternity is exclusive to women and it is women who must be protected , independently of the fact that some parental leave can be granted to men .
the directive must include a minimum leave of 20 weeks , with an obligatory period of at least eight weeks after giving birth .
in no circumstances must pregnancy be a cause for discrimination against women .
it must provide for new working situations and also the new family situation of single parent families .
the pregnant worker must be provided with adequate protection , which is designed for their specific circumstances , but this should not mean discrimination or a reduction in their work opportunities , but quite the opposite .
mr president , in today ' s europe there is no room for a divorce between women and employment , and much less a divorce between women and maternity .
it seems to me that , in this proposal for a revision of the directive that we are asking the commission to present quickly , it is essential to preserve the reality of three fundamental principles for women and their well-being : the prohibition of dismissal for pregnant women or women on maternity leave , the right to a mandatory minimum leave and allowance during this leave to be taken into account for the purposes of acquiring pension entitlements .
furthermore , it seems to me that this new directive should comprise substantial improvements , in particular all women must be offered the opportunity to take 20 weeks ' maternity leave , without necessarily being obliged to take the entire period , but the employer shall be obliged to offer it , and a minimum of 8 weeks after the birth , in order to foster development of the bond between mother and child .
finally , it is recommended that this text should correlate and reinforce the formal prohibition of dismissal during pregnancy and maternity leave .
this is why it is necessary to have a sufficiently long period of rest from work before giving birth and even longer afterwards , when there is a child to breastfeed , look after and bring up .
the community legislation and the jurisprudence of the european court of justice still do not offer a sufficient framework although they are undoubtedly key elements to making further progress in this aspect which is essential to safeguarding the rights of pregnant workers .
directive 92 / 85 was adopted before the treaty of amsterdam .
that is what we propose and to this end we are going to prepare a supplementary report on the implementation of this directive , which we will present in 2002 .
as the honourable members know well , the commission last week approved its new social agenda for 2000-2005 and it is within this framework that we hope to offer an adequate solution , not only to this specific problem , but also to a whole series of other issues .
the report on the feira summit was issued on tuesday morning , the report on tuesday morning ' s discharge sitting was issued at 9.12 p.m .
the report on zimbabwe , tuesday afternoon , was issued at 10.55 p.m .
the report on the european central bank on wednesday morning was issued at 8.00 p.m .
i would ask you , mr president , to revert back to the old system and to ensure that the press releases , the daily press releases , not only appear on time , but also afford a general overview - in a decentralised manner - for each language .
mr staes , your comments will , of course , be passed on to our staff so that we can work as efficiently as possible .
i would like to know exactly from the commission - because this compromise has been concluded with the commission - whether a ) the commission is prepared to implement amendment no 51 which has been added to the compromise and b ) whether the commission is prepared , in consultation with the council , to bring up for discussion the special position of belgian , dutch and northern french flax growers .
we referred the report back on 16 may and in the meantime it has been improved .
mr president , commissioners , ladies and gentlemen , i really want to give warm thanks , not just to the commission but also to all those involved , to all my colleagues on the committee on agriculture , for enabling us jointly to achieve this compromise !
if the socialist group does not support compromise amendment no 10 - and that is up to the group - then let me tell you that this will be a very grave decision it is taking here today . ( applause from the ppe-de group ) mr poettering , as you are aware , explanations of vote are made after the vote .
yes , mr president , i note that the law is not equal for all , because i wanted to speak along the same lines , in the previous sitting , on the resolution on feira , and i was not given the authorisation to do so , and i did it at the right time in the end .
on behalf of my group , i would like to point out that it is absolutely unacceptable , firstly , that a non-existent agreement be cited , and secondly that my group be threatened .
furthermore , and i will end , mr president , by saying that there is no mention by name of any group in the kuhne report .
secondly , i myself proposed in my original report , which was adopted in committee in march and voted on here in april , to include a problem relating to my group in that report .
at that time , my group and the greens voted in committee to resolve that problem .
let me now make a very fundamental comment as rapporteur for a discharge procedure .
no rapporteur for a discharge procedure , in which the groups are involved , can have this discharge taken from him by an agreement between group chairmen , whether or not such an agreement exists .
amendments nos 5 and 6 are not here .
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 and 10 ( first part ) , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 ( the first , third and fourth part of 15 ) , 16 , 17 and 18 .
explanations of vote mr president , in view of the vote on the papayannakis report i should like to ask the commission to convene a conciliation committee next week so that we sort this out before the 1 september deadline .
we voted against extra money for military advisers because we believe a peace policy needs peace experts and non-violent conflict resolution .
it will be hard to explain to the citizens of europe why eur 14 million of taxes were squandered on the flechard case and why parliament is letting itself be fobbed off with empty promises .
on behalf of my group , i therefore want to state that we voted against the discharge to the commission for that reason . - ( da ) on 6 july 2000 , members of the union for a europe of nations group voted against giving discharge to the commission in respect of implementation of the general budget of the european union for 1998 .
unacceptable pressure has been placed upon a number of rapporteurs , and the shady operators who have an interest in preventing the serious examples of fraud and deception in the commission ' s administration from coming to light have not held back from making physical threats .
this firm was suspected of fraud as early as 1992 .
but the commissioner for budgets does not have the right to refuse to tell us how many millions the commission has paid to this firm over the past years .
faced with the need to finally make a decision on whether or not to grant discharge , we eventually gave the current european commission the benefit of the doubt for 1998 .
mr president , i would like to ask for the vote on the report on the protection of forests to be postponed until the next sitting , because today , for unavoidable reasons , i must leave this parliament at 5 p.m .
the votes on certain resolutions , such as the european council of feira , zimbabwe and the trafficking of human beings took a relatively short time .
we will take note of your comment and pass it on to the conference of presidents , for , in the order of voting , according to the procedure we have been following , out of all the recommendations for second reading - which engage our capacity as a legislative house - priority is given to the drafts which engage our power of colegislation .
mr arvidsson - all this relates to what i know about - will , i hope , also agree .
ruhle report ( a5-0167 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted against the ruhle report .
apart from this , i would like to stress that , in addition to the other aspects which are inadequate as the rapporteur himself states in his report - which begs the question of why he does not conclude the report with a recommendation to vote against it - it would be appropriate to give at least part of these funds to voluntary organisations , which include many pensioners and elderly people who are willing to go out into the world and assist developing countries . . ( fr ) the european parliament , during its sitting of 13 april 2000 , quite rightly decided to delay the decision giving discharge to the european commission on the implementation of the budget for the year 1998 .
this decision was legitimate , insofar as the citizens of our nations have the right to be told how the money of the european union , their money , is being spent .
there is no question , however , of accepting that , on the pretext of better monitoring , in order to achieve a more honest and rational use of the european funds - and i am thinking of african , caribbean and pacific countries in particular , that our action should be a pretext for also organising the unfounded trial of certain countries of the european union - incidentally one of the main net contributors ( i am talking about france ) - by means of a witch hunt which , it is said , targets certain high-ranking civil servants of that nationality .
kuhne report ( a5-0189 / 2000 ) - ( de ) i voted against giving a discharge to the secretary-general because he gave misleading information to the political decision-making bodies about the purchase of the asp building in brussels .
today , on the basis of a unanimous agreement within the council , we finally have the opportunity to show a little determination .
indeed , the common position submitted to us includes a large number of the amendments adopted by this house at first reading .
certain fellow members have explained , in good faith , that this statement does nothing to contribute to tracing beef .
on the contrary , this labelling is just as important as establishing health guarantees .
these two types of information are not in competition ; they are complementary and contribute , each at their own level , to restoring the confidence of european consumers .
the confidence of our consumers cannot be decreed , it must be won .
what we are discussing here today is the revision of the original 1993 regulation which put in place the community eco-management and audit scheme .
under the new regulation which we are discussing here today easier access will be made for small- and medium-sized enterprises to apply for accreditation under the emas scheme .
i fully support this programme and commend this report .
recommendation for second reading : breyer ( a5-0166 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the recommendation , which sets limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in the ambient air .
this draft recommendation establishes minimum criteria to be applied in the organising , carrying out , following up and publicising of the results of environmental inspections .
two types of inspections are foreseen , in particular , routine inspections carried out as part of a planned inspection programme and non-routine inspections as a follow-up to complaints in connection with the issue and renewal or modification of various licences .
under this draft recommendation , each plan should define the geographical area which it covers , cover a defined period of time , include specific provisions for its revision , identify the specific sites or types of installations covered , prescribe the programmes for routine environmental inspections , provide for and outline the procedures for non-routine environmental inspections , provide for coordination between the different inspecting authorities .
i would like to commend the rapporteur , caroline jackson , for her report .
the rapporteur believes that only a directive can force the member states to introduce these inspection systems .
the european union also has competence in environmental matters under article 130 of the maastricht treaty .
santa maria da feira european council of 19 and 20 june 2000 mr president , the feira council of 19 and 20 june 2000 showed a certain hypocrisy regarding a goodly number of subjects , and i will cite four of these .
this matter is particularly serious as it clearly shows that the powers of coercion given to the european union can easily be used against national democratic expression .
on the draft charter of fundamental rights , the heads of state and government have mostly pretended not to know yet whether they wanted to include social rights and make the document binding in nature .
earlier today , at the constitutional affairs committee , i asked joschka fischer a question on this subject , but he wriggled out of replying .
fourthly , the lisbon summit , midway through the portuguese presidency , gave another sign in favour of abandoning the european welfare model and changing to the american model . - ( da ) the danish social democrats in the european parliament have voted today in favour of the resolution concerning the conclusions from the european council ' s summit in feira on 19-20 june 2000 .
i know that opinion on the tax compromise that we just managed to negotiate in feira is divided .
not only is closer cooperation itself vigorously denounced , and rightly so , by the small- and medium-sized member states , as damaging to their integrity , whereas sovereignty is a principle that guarantees the equality and respect of each .
in order to put an end to a situation where poverty forces thousands of human beings to leave for lands where they hope to have a slightly better life , we must put an end to a social system which , in order to concentrate extraordinary riches in the hands of the few , enforces poverty on the majority of the planet .
it is disgusting that , even in areas where current national and european institutions could actually do something , they do nothing .
the dover tragedy happened between two european countries .
mr president , i shall explain my vote in writing .
previously , when members were present for the vote and an explanation of vote was made in writing , it was possible to leave , as the president used to state that he had received such and such a written explanation of vote on such and such a report .
now , we have to wait .
if all the members here had given their explanations of vote in writing you would have had your chance rather earlier .
however , your fellow members have the right to give explanations of vote on all the reports that we put to the vote .
mr president , i would like to comment on points 2 and 3 , in which it is claimed that the intergovernmental conference is the key issue in the run-up to enlargement of the eu .
i would also like to comment on point 10 , the contents of which i think involve an unfortunate development in the direction of militarisation of the european union .
i am saying this also as a representative of a country that is non-aligned .
first of all , mr maaten , the article you are talking about only refers to one group or 32 members .
in both fiji and the solomon islands democratic government and law and order have been undermined .
the beleaguered inhabitants of fiji are looking to the european union , which they see as the beacon of democracy and racial equality , to come to their aid .
we also warn the solomon islands that a suspension of aid may be needed there to restore democracy , peace and stability .
madam president , i want to concentrate on the solomon islands , but first just a word on fiji .
this situation is unsustainable .
that aid is 25 % of their gdp .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , it is true that the pacific always evokes images of paradise : beaches , coconut palms , sun .
moreover , in spite of these differences , all these people are at home in fiji .
this practice is only possible because the population is poor and suffers from a lack of knowledge of other groups .
in the solomon islands , a sham parliamentary vote brought a new prime minister to power , elected by the power of the gun .
these two examples support our vision of the conflict .
from this point of view , if we want to be really effective , we must prevent further conflicts and to do so , we must genuinely aid the development of education , the local economy and local democracy .
the commission is currently preparing a proposal to the council on the application of article 366a of the lome convention because , in its the view , the fundamental principles of the convention - democracy , the rule of law and respect for human rights - are no longer guaranteed in fiji .
tibet is occupied , tibet was invaded by chinese troops in 1949 and since then has been occupied and colonised by the chinese .
we must oblige them and , through political action by parliament , assert our determination to see this matter , which has lasted 50 years , finally resolved .
china is a large country which has a right to democracy .
first of all , why is it that there is still no real dialogue at official level between the chinese government and the tibetan government in exile ?
secondly , how can a renowned institution such as the world bank be on the brink of financing a chinese programme which is tantamount to a common or garden colonisation of tibet ?
mr president , commissioner verheugen , ladies and gentlemen , tomorrow the world bank will be taking a decision with very serious implications for tibet .
a fortnight ago , the members of our intergroup on tibet and many other meps urged the president of the world bank in washington not to go against the bank ' s own principles for the protection of endangered peoples .
but that also implies an obligation to act more responsibly than before and , for instance , to apply the concept of " one china - many systems " .
on behalf of the epp group and the intergroup on tibet , i call on all the members of the european parliament to support our resolution .
i hope you will help us bring about a u-turn , as requested by my fellow meps in the amendment ; a u-turn which prescribes that , if there is no change in three years ' time , we will eventually decide to recognise tibet ' s provisional government rather than continue to tread water .
i would like to address the commissioner and say that i hope that the commission has very good relations with the representatives of the world bank .
we have therefore only got an extremely short time in which to influence the world bank , to which this resolution is , of course , primarily directed .
the council is , of course , not represented here to any great extent .
madam president , the commission , like parliament , is deeply concerned about the human rights situation in tibet .
we are particularly concerned about respect on the part of the chinese authorities for the cultural , linguistic and religious identity of the autonomous region of tibet .
in particular , the european union has called on china to resume the dialogue with the dalai lama as soon as possible .
in our view , a direct dialogue between the dalai lama and the chinese authorities is the only realistic way of achieving a lasting and peaceful solution to the issue of tibet .
with regard to cooperation , the european union takes the view that it is in the interest of the tibetan people that we support aid projects in tibet , provided the group of ethnic tibetans benefits directly from them and is given priority in the management of the projects .
if any influence at all can still be brought to bear , it would be up to the member states to do so .
firstly , i hope , in particular , that the council and the commission will be active when it comes to also taking up this issue in the security council when the action plan concerning children in armed conflicts will be debated at the end of this month .
i would also like the eu jointly to take up the issue in the security council at the end of this month during the follow-up to the general debate on children in armed conflicts .
madam president , the situation in northern uganda and southern sudan is the setting for the drama of the child-soldiers .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , war is always cruel , and civil war even more so .
this is why we must increase aid and support for unicef , which has set up an action programme enabling children to return to a normal life .
sudan must stop supporting the lra .
and parliament must intervene to urge the ugandan government to find a peaceful solution to this conflict in the north of uganda , which , let me remind you , has been the cause of 100 000 deaths in 15 years .
some weeks ago , a documentary from southern sudan was shown on swedish television .
we must , as is stated in point 8 of the resolution , strongly urge these companies to cease their activities in sudan until a peaceful solution to the conflict has been found .
i would ask commissioner verheugen specifically whether he is absolutely clear about the point mentioned in the resolution , that of bringing the investments in both oil and oil pipelines in sudan to a halt for the time being .
we do a great deal financially in this respect in different countries .
however many finely-worded resolutions we have , as long as we in the community fail to get to grips with the issues relating to children in our own community , we do not have a strong voice to raise our concerns about this .
many of our policies affect children 's rights and interests but this week commissioner prodi said he did not feel it was necessary to have a dedicated unit looking at children 's rights within the community .
situation in the moluccas madam president , the moluccas require our attention once again .
the brave attitude of president wahid should not go unmentioned .
finally , i would like to ask your attention for the victims of these conflicts , namely the ordinary citizens .
the lack of political and economic interests in that region should not determine the level of aid .
it is therefore vital that the international community offer immediate financial and moral support in order to solve the problems in indonesia .
after a few months of peace and quiet in that area , violence has flared up again over the past few weeks , and once again , dozens of people have been killed and once again , thousand of people have fled .
it seems that the jihad militiamen are being financed and armed by these groups , and sometimes backed by regional military forces , which are , in fact , supposed to protect the population .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , it is becoming increasingly clear that the violence on the moluccas is not a chaotic , spontaneous fight between the local population , between local muslims and christians .
in other words , the security apparatus which should guarantee stability , is divided over two camps .
however , we must also let him know that we support him in his fight against those sections of the army which are of course trying to undermine democratic reform , in his battle against people like amien rais , the chairman of the people ' s consultative assembly who , for example , referred to young people devoted to the laskar jihad as the heart of the nation .
i think that certain forces are at work behind these actions , and there is a significant similarity between a certain type of behaviour that we are now seeing in the moluccas and the events we recently witnessed in east timor .
madam president , we can all put our signatures to what is written in the resolution .
we must also question the actions of the european union and its ability to pursue this initiative in favour of the international moratorium alongside the united nations and the international community .
to avoid repeating last year ' s failure at the united nations , we must urgently coordinate the actions of the european union .
to this end , i have presented an amendment asking that this policy within the united nations in favour of the establishment of a universal moratorium be coordinated by the high representative for common foreign and security policy .
i therefore urge my fellow members to support these amendments .
mr president , this house is appealing to the governor of virginia to spare the life of a man , derek rocco barnabei , sentenced to death , who is in all probability innocent .
as we debate our resolution , in a death cell in the same state , they are sterilising the needles which will be used to administer the lethal injection which , in a few hours ' time , will kill michael clagget , probably guilty of multiple murders committed many years ago .
we have adopted countless resolutions during these last two parliamentary terms in a vain attempt to put an end to the death penalty in the united states and elsewhere .
what is certain is that many other executions will be performed at an increasingly high rate before august in virginia and other states , in particular texas , whose governor - who will almost certainly be the next president of the united states of america - holds the world record of having put 132 human beings to death in the last five years .
bush boasts of this record , but i do know - because he told me in a letter he sent me dated 22 march - that he is confident that he will be able to fulfil the highest obligations of a fair and errorless justice .
the resolution before parliament notes the fresh debate which is currently in progress in the united states , not on the abolition of the death penalty at all but on a moratorium intended to ensure a more reliable but no less merciless system .
it is therefore a horrible irony that the united states is one of the few countries in the developed world which still retains and practises the use of the death penalty .
we face today a particular case , that of derek rockwell barnabei : each human being is an individual in her or his own right and must be stood up for as such .
mr president , the case of derek rocco barnabei makes our resolution all the more urgent .
serious riots broke out , especially before and after the germany-england match .
germany set a good example in this respect .
mr president , this debate is not entitled hooligans but euro 2000 , and this is great .
i also want to make sure that we actually condemn hooligans in a very strong way in this house ; all hooligans whatever country they come from and whatever their background .
in denmark when galatasaray played arsenal , a number of arsenal fans were arrested yet not charged with hooliganism .
so all these factors actually led to a number of people thinking : " well this euro 2000 championship is a soft touch .
we must therefore be concerned when the game is unduly weighed down by either economic interests or excessively emotive behaviour , neither of which must be encouraged in any way by the political world .
the item on the agenda as approved by the house is ' hooligans ' .
notably , the rotterdam incident does not alter our view of the human rights record or the quality of democracy in holland , which i consider to be among the most liberal countries in the world , although it was treated as serious , both in terms of the shameful treatment of the disabled people and because of the violence against the journalists who were merely doing their duty .
i would strongly urge the italian delegates , and also the italian press , but mainly the italian meps to refrain from drawing any comparison with the heysel tragedy .
the measures taken by the belgian authorities served to limit the clearly racist , xenophobic and homophobic violence of the hooligans .
i therefore believe that parliament can provide a real impetus for the member states and the uefa to implement such measures immediately , as the red card , mr president , must admittedly be applied on the pitch , but must also be applied with regard to hooligans , both in and outside the stadium .
all member states should , in consultation with each other , take appropriate measures .
not only was euro 2000 a superb festival of football , it was also a festival of solidarity among the citizens of the european union , whom it brought closer together .
mr president , on monday , the liberal group voted against including this item on the agenda and if i now consider the resolution , i believe we were right to do so .
extending congratulations in a resolution is very civilised , of course , but hardly the task of this parliament .
the dutch public prosecutor is involved in this matter and so it is completely premature on the part of this parliament to pass a verdict on the incident at this stage .
iraq mr president , the united nations has been emasculated by two members of the security council on the issue of sanctions on iraq .
kofi annan is a good and honourable man .
the alleged purpose of the sanctions is to get rid of saddam hussein .
i am a friend of islam and i think we should stop , in this european union and the european parliament , demonising the arabs and demonising islam .
mr president , we had originally submitted a text on the same subject and with the same purport , but this text gives a far more balanced view than the text of the so-called joint resolution .
mr president , iraq was at war with iran from 1980 to 1989 .
iraq invaded kuwait on 2 august 1990 .
in 1994 , iraq recognised the territorial integrity of kuwait .
the un representative reported to the un in 1997 that unscom 's work had covered virtually everything about iraq .
in 1998 the international atomic energy agency declared that iraq no longer had a nuclear capacity .
the oil for food programme started in 1996 has been excessively bureaucratic and incompetent , resulting in long delays in procuring essential medicines and food supplies .
if the sanctions were intended to dislodge saddam hussein , this has not still been achieved after ten years .
however , ten years of sanctions have caused enormous suffering and hardship for the 22 million people of iraq .
the intellectual embargo has deprived doctors , teachers and other professionals of the advances in science and technology .
i hope that this house will vote in favour of this resolution .
mr president , on 15 april this year , following a full debate with the council and the commission , we adopted a resolution that was endorsed by an overwhelming majority of this house .
secondly , we propose that our parliament should take the initiative in sending a fact-finding mission on the ground .
in particular we must ask iraq to cooperate with the international committee of the red cross on tracing the 604 kuwaiti citizens who disappeared as a result of the illegal iraqi occupation of kuwait .
if there is to be any eu visit to iraq it must include a visit to those families in kuwait who are still waiting to know ten years later what happened to their loved ones .
what a contrast and what hypocrisy between so-called humanitarianism and this holocaust that we are collectively carrying out due to simple cowardice in the face of american power , that great empire that this house in particular and europe in general are incapable of opposing on any subject , as yesterday ' s vote on echelon showed once again .
it is precisely this obsession of saddam hussein ' s which reveals the very risky naivety of paragraph 3 of the joint resolution , because the lifting of the no-fly zone in the north of iraq - remember this is the international guarantee for the kurds against their arch enemy saddam - will probably drive millions of kurds to take flight once again .
on the question of human rights let me therefore sum up by saying that the commission ' s foreign policy remains , as ever , directed at helping to prevent conflicts , prevent infringements of human rights and promote democracy and human rights .
wherever we encounter violent conflicts and infringements of human rights , we resolutely apply the means at our disposal , be it through dialogue , be it through diplomatic measures or be it in the form of economic cooperation and aid to these countries , in order to play a positive part in resolving the conflicts and promoting democracy and human rights .
but everyone in this house also knows that the oil for food programme has certain weaknesses , which once again the iraqi regime has to answer for , and that is also why we are still using echo as an instrument in iraq .
i would like to say a little more on an issue that is being discussed here for the first time today , namely hooligans and football .
one important instrument is the handbook the council adopted in june 1999 on cooperation between police authorities and measures to prevent violence at international football matches .
the handbook sets out practical rules of conduct for the police , which were applied for the first time at the euro 2000 championship in the netherlands and belgium .
the evaluation of the euro 2000 championship will provide a great deal of useful information on improving the measures to combat hooliganism .
its findings on the police action during the euro 2000 championship will be useful for similar future events .
the commission will await the findings of this project before putting forward practical proposals to improve the existing measures .
once the euro 2000 championship has been evaluated , the commission and these two countries will establish more concrete contacts .
mr president , let me say that i am shocked and horrified at the commission reply on the issue of iraq and the dismissive way in which they dealt with it .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
i hope it will thereby be possible to finance , in a significant way , the programme for recovery of the areas affected and that it will be drawn up according to the models for this type of action .
this issue of venezuela is serious and urgent .
i hope the commission is capable of mobilising the necessary human resources to deal with the priorities indicated by this parliament and i am sure that , if the commission , as it has proposed in its preliminary draft budget for 2001 , is going to be able to spend eur 815 million in the balkans , it will also be able to spend eur 50 million in venezuela .
mr president , this issue raises a problem which goes much further than the resolution on venezuela .
the problem involves the preservation of parliament ' s capacity to respond to this type of situation .
mr president , the three points which the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left wishes to make on the aid which the european union can and must give to venezuela as a result of the terrible flood disaster are : first , we should throw ourselves economically and technically into resolving the consequences suffered , and not reduce this aid , as the commission intends , in order to fund another catastrophe , this time artificial , caused by us in the balkans , in kosovo and in yugoslavia .
finally , last but not least , we should reflect on our methods of production and our consumption of natural resources , because this lies behind these catastrophes , and we should not be regularly lamenting them .
of course , we have had good experiences with the european union ' s contribution to central america after the mitch disaster , and we also saw a good initial reaction on the part of the commission , which quickly allocated eur 400 000 for emergency humanitarian aid to venezuela when the disaster mentioned by previous speakers happened .
we must remember for example that the european union is the main foreign investor in venezuela and that we have many cultural and social ties with those countries .
as a member of the european parliament ' s ad hoc delegation , i was able to witness the terrible effects of what is considered to be the worst natural disaster that has ever occurred in latin america .
this aid is directed at two things .
the disaster-prevention measures are very much in need of improvement , as we have indeed learned from this disaster in venezuela .
i believe the best way we can help the people in the long term is for us to concentrate on that .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
i believe that what happened to mr pelinka , a renowned academic respected by the scientific community , is indicative of the true nature of the coalition in power in austria .
there certainly is an urgent need to call on all the governments - as i propose - to support the monitoring centre .
mr president , i will tell you immediately that the eldr group refused to sign the joint resolution for a very simple reason : we find it a little over-emotional , while not forceful enough , and does not offer the possibility of a more political and more balanced choice in the name of parliament .
i do not understand their agreement on the text in its current form , in relation to the initial text that they themselves introduced .
i am sad to see the ovp members also giving us a sample here of the way they deal with government critics in their own country ; in fact attempting to present them as traitors to their country .
a policy that does not respect the independence of the judiciary does not , in the final analysis , respect the principle of the separation of powers and thus violates a basic principle of democracy .
the commission services have already requested the austrian authorities to appoint a new member of the management board .
the commission emphasises the importance of the independence of members of the management board , as provided for in the regulation on setting up the centre .
we are firmly convinced that the monitoring centre plays an important role in combating racism , xenophobia and anti-semitism .
before the vote on venezuela : mr president , the same applies here as to the one i just spoke about .
the president has already replied .
vote mr president , i simply wish to express our enormous sadness at the news we have just received concerning a horrendous accident on the spanish roads , in which a lorry has collided with a school bus transporting catalan school children , with an initial toll of 20 dead and 30 injured , some of whom are very seriously injured .
mr president , as rapporteur for the previous item , i have the task of explaining on behalf of the members of the group of the europe people 's party and european democrats that we abstained from voting on the legislative resolution because amendment 6 to article 2 of the directive has been adopted .
a written explanation of vote will be submitted .
this concerns amendments nos 4 , 5 , 6 , 18 , 21 , 33 , 36 , 40 , 42 and 46 , some of which directly imply policy down to individual schools in member states .
explanations of vote - redondo jimenez report ( a5-0152 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the redondo report which regulates european union interventions in the event of fires and atmospheric pollution .
i voted for the motion but i would prefer it if , in future , in implementing the proposal , we took into consideration the fact that many pensioners and elderly people live near forests and they are often the only people left in remote and countryside areas .
the amendments to the regulation on protecting forests against fires are particularly important for portugal .
for portugal , where fires have destroyed large areas of forest , it is vital to increase appropriations in order to supplement national investment in building infrastructure , for example , and to help local authorities , private landowners ' associations or wasteland management bodies to buy fire prevention equipment .
this is why the increase to eur 77 million in community appropriations proposed by the rapporteur as opposed to the eur 50 million proposed by the commission is so important .
i know the committee on agriculture tells us that we are having the wrong debate in defending an increase in the budget in the context of these reports .
personally , i consider that we have a political responsibility to send strong political signals to the commission , the council and the citizens .
in december 1999 , part of the european union was hit by terrible storms which devastated a large proportion of the forests in southern and eastern france and created despair among the victims , in particular small-holders .
regulation no 3582 / 86 is about the protection of forests against atmospheric pollution and regulation no 2158 / 92 has established a framework for the protection of forests against fires .
the rapporteur proposes increasing the sums allocated to both of these programmes , whereas the commission proposal seeks to cut them drastically .
the problem is identifying whether there actually is added value .
subsidiarity works in favour of community action in this specific context .
so , the nordic countries , which since 1998 have comprised most of europe ' s forested areas , are affected most of all by atmospheric pollution , stresses due to climatic factors and soil acidification whereas the countries of southern europe are more subject to the effects of desertification , drought and fires .
now , when the commission ' s communication of 2 february 2000 advocates resorting to the all-out precautionary principle and a community action programme in favour of civil protection instituted by the council decision of 9 december 1999 is waiting only to be implemented , is not the time to cut off funding for regulation no 2158 / 92 .
the heart of the problem is political , however .
some member states have expressed doubts as to the importance of forests , even though the forestry industry employs 2.2 million people in europe , and forests cover 36 % of the surface area of the european union !
we call on the european parliament to stand by its repeated votes and positions on the need to strengthen measures to prevent and fight fires and protect and enhance the value of our forest heritage in all areas of the union .
mr president , i abstained from the vote on the arvidsson report on restrictions on the use of phthalates .
the members of the group of the europe people 's party and european democrats choose to abstain from voting on the legislative resolution because amendment 6 to article 2 has been adopted .
reason : marking toys designed for children between 3 and 6 years of age and childcare articles manufactured completely or partially from soft pvc plastic containing phthalates , and their packaging , with a warning label is very difficult and in reality is likely to be tantamount to an indirect , extended ban .
i was a rapporteur on this subject in 1992 and i am particularly interested in following legislative developments on the subject .
to avoid encouraging children to suck or chew on their toys , we should add a clause to prevent flavouring substances being added .
consumer product safety commission , only rarely , if at all , among children is there a risk of exposure to harmful chemicals , as the quantities of phthalates in toys do not exceed that level which could be considered harmful .
although it was found in the 1980s that very large quantities of phthalates caused liver tumours in rats and mice , official agencies in europe and the united states have not confirmed that phthalates present a risk of cancer in humans .
in practice the problem is a minor one , however , as the european toy industry has , in the main , stopped using phthalates .
hieronymi report ( a5-0186 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the media report but i feel that , since pensioners and the elderly watch television more than anyone else and are therefore extremely interested in this european union aid , it would be beneficial if they were able to watch a european television channel broadcasting european programmes .
i therefore hope that my proposal will be taken into account when the document is implemented . - ( sv ) the swedish christian democrats have fundamental objections , based on the principle of subsidiarity as laid down in the maastricht and amsterdam treaties , to eu funds being used in any way to develop , produce or market what are known as european films and film training .
at no point in the texts , though , is this priority stated , but more especially , in none of the countries of the european union is it applied .
mombaur report ( a5-0180 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the motion partly because one of the recitals states that competition does not prevent the states from imposing public service obligations in the general interest on the parties involved .
as you will be aware , at the santa maria da feira european council , the commission was asked to present a report by march 2001 on developments in the energy markets under the lisbon strategy , so that we could assess progress in the liberalisation of the electricity market at the stockholm summit in march 2001 .
the energy sector is crucial to the economic development of a country and vital to its defence .
radwan report ( a5-0169 / 2000 ) mr president , the 1999 annual report of the european central bank is not terribly forthcoming on the subject of the main question that all observers are asking : why has the euro , which was presented as a strong currency , turned out in the end to be a weak currency ?
this will not change a great deal in the short term .
as i explained at a recent symposium of the french national assembly , the charter of fundamental rights is intended to serve , among other things , to put an even greater stranglehold on the peoples of europe in relation to community law and hence also in relation to the single currency .
this report reflects the concern felt by many leaders in the face of the public ' s virtually total lack of interest in the implementation of the euro .
we are , however , eighteen months away from a crucial deadline : the withdrawal of national currencies and the start of the physical circulation of euro notes and coins .
in order to make up for this omission , the european parliament is demanding that the information policy be stepped up , increasing appropriations by approximately 30 % , to eur 38 million per annum .
let me mention , incidentally , that we have always challenged the commission ' s option to make expenditure commitments without a legal basis , and we also challenged this interinstitutional agreement which the council was weak enough to accept in contravention of the customary principles of proper management of public monies .
in our vote , we attached importance to information being provided in the individual countries by the member states and to special agreements being entered into with the member states concerning this issue .
the karas report mainly intends to instil more confidence in the euro among the public at large by , inter alia , involving sports associations and education .
so when the honourable members reject the amendment tabled by william abitbol , simply asking that this integrationist objective be clearly stated in the commission ' s communication programmes , they are contributing to a propaganda operation which their voters will most certainly punish them for .
the resolution of the karas report claims that women for some reason do not share the general enthusiasm which should have greeted the implementation of the euro .
the principle of subsidiarity must be applied here , and each member state must retain control of the organisation of air traffic control .
in conclusion , i support the proposals to strengthen the role of eurocontrol , the pan-european agency responsible for the management of the airspace of european states , be they members of the european union or not , in its capacity as regulatory authority .
we must also measure the problems due to the air companies or the limited european civil airspace with regard to the number of overflights .
air traffic control does not play a very significant part in causing delays , in the final analysis , and , in any case , improvement of the system involves improving the organisation of the coordination of the various member state control systems , supporting eurocontrol in this role .
from this critical stance , we tabled 11 amendments .
since it is true that effective cooperation is required and since technical and disciplinary measures are essential in this area , we do not support these guidelines , which are even more radically in favour of liberalisation than those suggested by the commission .
we , on the other hand , are in favour of the harmonised development of transport on a european level , prioritising the fulfilment of real social needs , and opting for railways as the best solution for most needs , particularly for distances of less than 500 kilometres .
it is for all these reasons that i voted against this report .
damiao report ( a5-0141 / 2000 ) i voted for the damiao report , mr president , partly because i voted for the amendment which stipulated that women on maternity leave should receive a full allowance .
if there is enough money to spend on dogs and cats , there ought to be enough for women on maternity leave , who are not ill but people who have the right to a full allowance .
mr president , this report on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the health and safety at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding is very valid and is a step in the right direction .
it is a very important part of the cultural and social identity which every nation and every country creates .
moreover , we should not like our vote in favour of the specific protection of women night-workers during pregnancy to be interpreted as legitimising women ' s working night shifts .
the prohibition of night work for women is a right acquired by the working movement in france .
to speak of equality between men and women is hypocrisy .
we wish to point out and highlight the risks inherent in a strict prohibition on dismissal , especially under the present , extended regime of generalised atypical employment contracts and the indirect exclusion of pregnant women from jobs , a regime in which we need not just to maintain and consolidate but to increase maternity leave , define the maternity allowance more clearly and apply strict and more substantive controls on night work by pregnant and breastfeeding working women .
a strict european framework must be established to protect pregnant women against any form of discrimination during recruitment , regarding issues of their working conditions , access to maternity leave or its duration : 20 weeks including 8 mandatory weeks after the birth .
finally , night work must be prohibited for both men and women in sectors where it is not absolutely essential , rather than seeking to modify the conditions for pregnant women .
however , after five years , it has become clear that short shipping is still merely an empty promise which has not been kept , despite the verbal support by the transport council of 8 december 1999 , which considered short sea shipping as a priority .
it is a fact that transport shipping will increase by 70 % in the next decade .
it is impossible to meet this growing demand by road transport alone .
parliament and your rapporteur have looked at the commission plans with a critical eye and tried , in consultation with all parties involved , as befits a parliament , to compile this report .
once again , short sea shipping can only take off in europe if it is considered an integral part of the transport chain .
innovation in the construction of specialist ships will prove decisive here and this could give our shipbuilding industry a shot in the arm .
for example , the road transport monopoly springs to mind , with the impact this has on the levels at which short sea shipping should pitch its prices to tie in with bilbao ' s short sea port .
the market is still fragmented at present .
the setting up of these new lines requires critical mass and it could be one or two years before these resources are available .
the european union will need to help out by providing cheap loans from the european investment bank in order to overcome this difficulty .
furthermore , i wish to say that there are two things which i am regretting right now : firstly , that i am not able to hear the opinion of our friend mr fatuzzo on how short sea shipping affects the interests of european pensioners , and secondly , that so few members are present because , considering the egotistical interests of this house , it is probable that one day they will regret not having found out about the issue of short sea shipping , because they will perhaps have to use it one day to travel to and from strasbourg .
i would like to highlight the fact that in the last two years there have been a series of actions which have had positive effects on short sea shipping .
this has made it possible , as the commission ' s report points out , for intra-community sea transport activity to increase by 23 % between 1990 and 1997 .
all of this indicates therefore that we not only need more vigorous quantitative measures but that we probably need a different qualitative focus .
this means a revitalisation of the whole area , as is well known by the people who live in those cities , in those regions , in which the ship-building industry is a very active element in the local economy .
first , we can improve the interfaces with other modes of transport by introducing modern systems of transhipment - especially to inland shipping - standardising containers , promoting transport logistics services for the entire transport chain and by many other means mentioned in the report .
i hope that the next progress report in two years ' time will tell us that we have moved a little closer to our vision , our vision of a successful intermodal transport system in europe .
my group endorses amendments nos 1 and 4 accordingly .
if we were to interpret the regulation on maritime cabotage sensibly , we would say : of course these peninsulas are functionally equivalent to islands , and public service obligations apply in these cases as well .
mr president , mrs peijs , ladies and gentlemen , the commission ' s communication on the development of short sea shipping in europe and the very good report on it by mrs peijs give a realistic picture of the development of this environmentally-friendly mode of transport in europe over the past two years .
the development and promotion of short sea shipping are a particularly important step on the way to developing a system of multimodal transport for the european union and bordering regions .
efficiency , cost-effectiveness , environmental compatibility and sustainability distinguish this form of transport from road transport and can offer a serious alternative in coastal regions .
the integration of short sea shipping in the logistics chain of door-to-door delivery can be an effective means of sustaining the growing economic cooperation between the eu and its neighbouring states and satisfying the growing need for transport that accompanies it .
mr president , i would like to say the following on behalf of mr van dam .
transport policy requires choices .
the mode of transport we are discussing here , short sea shipping , has the reputation of being a mode of transport which can counter the negative effects of the transport sector , especially in terms of the space occupied and environmental pollution , in more than one way .
given the developments in the road transport sector as a result of new european emission standards for fuels , i am of the opinion that in order to boost the environmental performance of short sea shipping , we need to lay down a european directive concerning maximum permitted emission levels generated by ships ' engines .
mr president , commissioner , living as i do in a country with an extensive coastline and many islands - in fact i live on an island - , i have first-hand experience of the value of short sea shipping .
it is worth noting that , although the volume of traffic carried by this form of transport has risen over recent years , road transport has fared better , meaning that special attention needs to be given to this more environmentally-friendly form of transport .
developing cabotage has an immediate impact on social and economic development in our regions and hence on the cohesion of the european union .
as always , i would like to remind you that the regional and structural policy of the union , as a whole , is a response to the specific disadvantages suffered by certain european regions , such as the so-called outermost regions .
in this way , we could correct the error made by the commission when it drew up the two-yearly report on the development of this type of transport , of employing an incomplete definition of short sea shipping .
what is most peculiar about our situation is , however , that our shipping always comes to a halt in the winter unless certain measures are taken , because the sea freezes .
that is the problem .
it is an important addition to the reports on railways and air traffic .
for the measures proposed in the report to be implemented , good levels of co-operation will be required between the union , member states , players at local level , and companies too , as will genuine investment of time and money in short sea shipping .
mr president , first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report .
to be competitive ports have to be more efficient and for this they will certainly require more support .
mr president , mrs peijs , i should first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of her report .
there are , however , two points in your report that i have a problem with .
firstly , the proposal to draw up a list of ports particularly suitable for short sea shipping .
moreover , there is a suggestion that the logistical services offered to users should be combined in a single unit .
in this context and in this spirit , the member states should moreover harmonise their regulations so as to prevent distortions , which , particularly in the case of mainland transport , often cause hold-ups .
several bottlenecks hamper the development of short sea shipping .
national short sea promotion offices should play an essential role in implementing this policy .
thank you for ensuring that we all move in the same direction .
mr president , i should like to express my disappointment that on a matter on which i have had a written question before the commission for more than six weeks , and which i raised in the debate , i have had no acknowledgement , far less a reply .
thank you very much , mr maccormick .
the vote will take place tomorrow , friday , at 9 a.m .
civil dialogue the next item is the oral question to the commission ( b5-0533 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs , on the future financing of the civil dialogue .
firstly , it is indisputable that non-governmental organisations play a vital role in member states , in the european union and outside of the european union .
also , article 136 of the european treaty , in combination with declarations 23 and 38 , underlines that cooperation with wohlfahrtsverbande ( welfare associations ) is necessary , and these are also non-governmental organisations , of course .
the european parliament has always put its money where its mouth is and has for some time , for some considerable time , created a line , b3 4101 in order to finance non-governmental organisations .
the six million dollar question now is how we can translate the finely worded ideas we have all expressed into reality .
we might otherwise run the risk of failing to implement not just a core task stipulated in the european treaty , but also what has been stated by the european council in feira , because ngos - and this is the only problem - are extremely sensitive , at least the majority of them , to breaks in payments to them .
they are far more sensitive to this than other organisations , and certainly member states .
the court of justice ' s ruling on case c 106 / 96 together with the interinstitutional agreement of 13 october 1998 on the legal bases have altered the conditions for financing social non-governmental organisations .
moreover , the new rules on financing must be observed to the letter in all programmes and budget lines .
against this background , organisations financed in the past will continue to be financed in future only if they satisfy the conditions set out in the decisions on certain action programmes , which will form the legal basis for the budget line in question .
the commission will then approve the annual grants on the basis of detailed work plans and funding plans .
the ngos have already welcomed the guideline for the administration of financial aid that entered into force in 1999 as progress .
the conditions set out in it will be incorporated in the budgetary rules and their implementing provisions in due course .
the two programmes proposed by the commission - combating discrimination and social exclusion - should basically cover the running costs of the social ngos that operate on a europe-wide basis .
the commission also takes the view that civil society plays a most important role in the european union .
that have helped build up a stronger partnership , as was emphasised in the working document on the commission and the ngos adopted on 18 january 2000 .
in line with these priorities , the president and several members of the commission have made it clear on many occasions how much importance they attach to the civil dialogue .
the president of the commission intends to consider the question of the dialogue with the citizens in the framework of the white paper on strengthening democracy in europe .
finally , because we are of course involved in the development of ngos in the new member states , in the context of enlargement , we believe that this should be given extremely high priority .
the role of the non-governmental organisations in the democratic construction of the union and the economic and social role they play in europe , the entire social economy sector , the third sector , is now acknowledged in practice as well as in documents - if we consider that approximately nine million workers are employed in this sector - as a major sector of fundamental importance .
earlier today we discussed the annual report of the committee on petitions , that is the complaints end of the process of evaluating what is going on within the european union .
they make us think of new things and they are essential to our process .
the work we have been doing in various committees over the last few weeks on article 13 , the anti-discrimination article , would have been impossible without the input of those bodies .
i believe that if we set to work on a task like this with a certain diplomatic tactfulness , the member states would react positively to the proposal .
you must be aware of the problems experienced by a good number of smaller ngos in being able to respond to a number of invitations to tender .
the work they do in terms of relations and competencies is , however , just as important as that of the major ngos , but some of them do not have the same administrative facilities that some major ngos have .
it was not until the dutroux case that we were able to obtain a budget line enabling two programmes to be run : daphne and stop .
this is precisely why , given that social matters are essentially part of the remit of ngos , we must make progress in the matter of civil dialogue .
since the 1998 budget crisis which saw the freezing of funds destined for ngo work with some of the most vulnerable people in europe and the developing world , much progress has been made .
but words are not enough and two years after the 1998 budget crisis , the difficulties continue .
with our pre-accession aid , we are working very closely with the non-governmental organisations in the candidate countries ; moreover our communications strategy , the organisational and financial framework of which has now been established , is also very much targeted at non-governmental organisations in candidate countries , since the aim is precisely to fully involve civil society in this important political process .
the reason for the delay is that we have more than 200 pages of roll-call votes , which have cost parliament ' s budget the modest sum of bef 4 million .
i think that what went on there last night must be investigated at any rate .
at the beginning of the topical and urgent debate , we had a discussion on the application of rule 146 of the rules of procedure , that is to say adjournment of a debate .
mr maaten , rule 50 ( 6 ) stipulates that rules 143 , 144 and 146 shall not apply to those resolutions .
i would like to inform you that , as you are aware , yesterday a tragic road accident occurred in spain , near soria , in which 2 drivers and 25 teenagers died .
working document no 4 specifically deals with the actual mechanics of the plenary session , and i think that would be the appropriate environment for this type of discussion and for making improvements to our working methods .
mr mann , this week at least , the verbatim report of proceedings has been available to all members from 10 a.m .
vote mr president , although we consider the prospect of developing short sea shipping in europe , as well as inland waterway transport , as something positive , armonia bordes , chantal cauquil and i have chosen , nevertheless , to abstain from voting on this proposal .
however , as the commission report and the report of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism point out , short sea shipping is suffering from a poor public image in terms of its cost , slowness and inefficiency .
finally , i would have liked the report to have included the proposal made by the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy , according to which short sea shipping must be considered neither as an alternative to road transport nor as a competitive system .
the sole purpose of this proposal for a framework decision is to speed things up , at least with regard to the 15 member states .
first of all , this framework decision allows european countries to raise fines to make this offence - environmental crime - unprofitable .
by means of administrative cooperation between the member states , it is also possible to obtain such information as can be of use in enabling us to combat environmental crime .
it is important to try to cooperate as much as possible in this area .
i am in favour of the framework decision and of the amendments which have been tabled .
i also wish to praise this initiative by denmark , which seeks to ensure that a framework decision on combating serious environmental crime is approved .
it is therefore imperative that the methods for combating serious environmental crimes are strengthened and coordinated between member states .
furthermore , i must stress the need for educating and training the personnel who will be responsible for investigating and prosecuting environmental crimes , the need to highlight preventative measures and the need for all the member states to ratify the 1998 convention of the council of europe .
it is a logical continuation of the treaty of amsterdam and the council of ministers ' summit in tampere .
these are very complicated , very interesting and very important questions .
in many cases companies use the argument of negligence rather than saying it is deliberate but in fact negligence in its way is deliberate .
the other thing i would like to point out is that there are companies , such as british nuclear fuels , who have absolutely no sense of public responsibility or environmental awareness .
the erika is another example of negligence .
on an international level we have seen many many disasters in the past , just to take bhopal as an example .
the crimes are often committed by a corporate body .
having said that , if , as many of the members have said , the council of europe convention is more comprehensive and more consistent , perhaps in these cases we should also ask ourselves how the european union might be able to consider the council of europe texts directly in order to make legislation more homogeneous , both within and outside the union .
in the council of europe - and this has already been echoed by others - a convention was concluded in 1998 to fight international environmental crime .
and of course in the not-so-distant past there was chernobyl , the memory of which still haunts us .
mr president , i would first like to congratulate the danish government on taking the initiative to propose the council framework decision that we are discussing , which aims to equip us with more effective tools for combating serious environmental crime .
my colleague and compatriot carmen cerdeira contributed ideas and amendments that are now part of the text on which we are going to vote .
the first aspect is that it is recognised that a country may act against criminals when the crime against the environment has been committed on its own territory , but also when it has been committed in another country , if the consequences of that crime affect the former .
the second matter is the need to consider the international dimension of the crime .
obviously , this is , in the first place , a responsibility of the member states , and there should be international cooperation in this area .
environmental crime , whether it be the illegal trade in endangered species of flora and fauna or their products , or whether it be the illegal export and dumping of toxic waste in other countries , either inside or outside the european union , is a growing and increasingly a cross-border problem .
it is important that we have legislation in place to protect us against serious environmental crime before we see further enlargement of the european union .
some difficulties exist in resolving all of these to the satisfaction of the 15 member states of the union .
this proposal suffers from the same problems we have too often in the european union .
penalties are therefore essential , and they need to be designed to act as a deterrent and to be proportional to the damage to citizens ' quality of life .
in the committee on petitions , we are aware of the terrible frustration felt by those citizens who take the trouble to report environmental crimes and see that , in europe , we are incapable of coming to their aid in order to improve the natural environment in which they live and to prevent these crimes .
the worst environmental crimes are those perpetrated by companies , for which it is just part of their business .
i therefore think that when people start having to face the consequences , progress will be made in the matter both within the union and in other respects .
the initiative mainly focuses on this part , which in essence corresponds to the provisions of a convention which was adopted by the council of europe in november 1998 .
in accordance with this , a council working group - one speaker has gone into it already - is currently working just on the first part of the initiative , that is , on substantive criminal law .
there are already several initiatives and proposals on improving cooperation in criminal law matters , which are not limited to environmental criminal law .
with this in mind , the european judicial network was established in 1998 through a joint action .
while some member states have specified particular environmental offences in their criminal law , this is not the case with others .
a serious breach of environmental law is therefore not necessarily punishable in every member state .
the overall lack of enforcement in environmental protection cannot , of course , be corrected by criminal law measures alone , but here too , this framework decision would certainly provide new impetus .
under the first pillar , it is in principle up to the member states whether they regard sanctions of administrative law as adequate or whether they take up the sharper sword of criminal law .
irrespective of this , however , the persons responsible for serious environmental offences should , of course , also be subject to criminal law .
unfortunately , this gives the overall impression that perhaps many member states do not take the area of environmental protection and environmental law so seriously after all .
thank you very much , mrs schreyer .
the debate is closed .
after all , fighting and prosecuting environmental crimes is not a priority for many member states .
so what are you doing for those of us who live in liguria , in genoa , and although we have the sea , it is polluted ? " " do not worry " , i said , " today is friday 7 july .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday , 7 july 2000 .
i propose a minute ' s silence as a last tribute to these victims , as an expression of our support for their families and friends and , indeed , to all democratic men and women in spain , and particularly in the spanish basque country , who , despite the climate of terror , continue to believe in political dialogue , the fundamental values of civilised society and the ultimate victory of democracy .
this is much more than a metaphysical quotation from hegel .
we in euskal herritarrok also regret profoundly the loss of human lives and share with all basque citizens the shocked feelings of our people at the moment .
the action of eta is a righteous expression of the struggle for recognition of something quite elementary . ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr gorostiaga atxalandabaso , in view of the circumstances , i must say , personally , and this is perhaps not quite in keeping with my duties as president , that i find your contribution quite unacceptable here . ( loud applause ) tribute addressing more particularly those members of parliament that were members of the previous legislature , it is my very sad duty to inform you of the deaths , this summer , of vassilis ephremidis and staffan burenstam linder .
i should like to thank the 300 members who sent in their completed questionnaires .
madam president , we andalusians are proud to receive this broken-down vessel in our waters , but we are very concerned about the united kingdom ' s stubborn determination to repair the fault there .
mr bautista ojeda , i should like to point out that next thursday , in the topical and urgent debate , the safety of nuclear submarines will be discussed .
the execution is to take place in ten days time on 14 september , and i therefore feel that it is important that you , madam president , who are well-known for your sensitivity , write to the governor of the state of virginia on behalf of this house and request a stay of execution .
madam president , i am not about to enter into this debate , but i would just like to draw your attention and my fellow members ' attention to another matter concerning this city , which is the extremely sensitive and worrying situation of a group of hungarian gypsies who arrived in strasbourg on 24 july , following persecution and racial discrimination in their own country , and who are seeking political asylum not only in our country , but also in other european union countries .
i do not wish to go into the details of the situation , but the essence of the problem is of very direct concern to us since , on the one hand it provides a very tangible and specific illustration of the problems involved in applying the copenhagen criteria , which require urgent solutions , and on the other hand , the problems that certain countries that are candidates for membership of the european union have in fulfilling the terms of the treaty .
then again , it also forces us to state , once again , that respect for minorities and human rights must be assessed in the same way and on a par with compliance with the economic criteria .
the group of 46 people who are here , madam president , the zamoli gypsies , are placing all their hope in the ability of this house to achieve progress in these matters .
thank you , mrs gillig .
madam president , i am one of those meps who need to travel for 24 hours in order to be here by 5.00 p.m .
however , the amendment has not been correctly translated into spanish since , where it talks about the peripheral regions , i wished to refer , and i in fact did refer , to the outermost regions of the european union .
madam president , since a colleague has mentioned the name of gibraltar could i remind the house that sunday , 10 september is the national day in gibraltar and some of us will be there .
yesterday , the ministers of the 15 imposed sanctions on burma , and there has been a siege of the elected leader of burma , aung san suu kyi , and an outburst of violence around her home .
lord bethell , i have , myself , already made a statement on this subject because we are extremely concerned about the highly insecure situation of the winner of the european parliament sakharov prize and we are monitoring this situation extremely closely .
i would ask this house to give urgent consideration to the exclusion of those citizens and to secure their representation in this parliament so they can bring their concerns to this house themselves .
i should also like to express my respect , however , for those who do smoke , and to defend their right to smoke .
for example , it would appear appropriate to place an ashtray at the point which marks the end of a smoking area and the start of a non-smoking area in order to avoid cigarette butts burning the floor , but this is a question of common sense .
madam president , i would like to speak against this proposal .
we had initially heard that it was not possible to vote on the valdivielso report because commissioner patten was not here .
it now turns out that commissioner patten is here and it seems to me that any technical problem that there may have been , and i am aware of that possibility , could be resolved by the parliament services within no more than 2 or 3 hours .
i would therefore ask that the vote on the meda regulation be included in this part-session and if the services really need one more day to resolve the technical problems , that the vote be delayed for one day .
mrs terron , there is clearly a technical problem here .
it will not therefore be possible to vote tomorrow at noon because not all members will have had time to see the amendments .
a suitable time for it to speak on this matter would be tomorrow morning when the council and the commission make their statements on the union 's external action priorities .
but i would ask the commission to ensure that our position on the enlargement of the european union is the one which we have always held , namely that by the year 2003 we in the european union wish to be capable of enlargement , and to ensure that these principles are upheld here !
first of all , in our view , the enlargement of the union , the incorporation of other european countries in the liberal order of europe , is the number one priority that we face in the next few years .
we have to go out and sell the case for enlargement to public opinion in all the member states of the european union .
it would be wrong if it seemed to some of our voters in the fifteen member states that enlargement was an issue for the political elites of europe .
i will relay it to commissioner verheugen . ( applause ) madam president , i am very grateful to the commissioner for his statement .
i applaud the view expressed by the commissioner that we all share the task of selling this historic challenge but i deplore the fact that someone as pre-eminent as commissioner verheugen , at least according to a number of newspapers today , should say the member states should not leave the commission to do the dirty job alone .
it is important to understand that a commissioner , commissioner verheugen in this case , has a role to speak for europe .
madam president , there was a lot of animated discussion in our group about the position commissioner verheugen has adopted , and our main conclusion was that transparency , more than anything , is now required in the negotiations on enlargement .
i am speaking here as a german and as the acting chairman of my group .
my group has always believed that not only the commission as a whole but also all of the individual commissioners must justify themselves before this parliament , and this regardless of their nationality and regardless of any affiliation to a political party .
i should like to say that my own group is in favour not only of " selling " enlargement or other major projects to public opinion but also of getting our fellow citizens closely involved in all the major phases of european construction , including by means of referenda .
we are , however , totally opposed to the idea of using the referendum as a sort of threat which could be abused by some " stirrers " , exploiting fears and , in particular , unwillingness to open up to others .
consequently , in order to ensure that enlargement is a success in the eyes of public opinion in our respective countries and in the eyes of the citizens of the countries of central and eastern europe , i am in favour of dispelling any misunderstanding , and thus of giving commissioner verheugen the opportunity to offer parliament a clear explanation .
i think the most suitable time would be on tuesday , when the council and commission will be making their statement on the european union ' s priorities for external action .
madam president , i would like to speak in favour of enrique baron crespo 's proposal for the reasons he has outlined so eloquently .
madam president , my group takes the opposite view , to the effect that it is important to vote upon a resolution .
in the first place , it is not the first time that parliament has given an opinion on the subject of human cloning .
if anyone adopted a unilateral stance on these occasions , it was the british government which , without any prior consultation whatsoever , adopted a position in favour of therapeutic cloning .
i refer to rule 118 of the rules of procedure .
in actual fact we have already discussed this and parliament has always been opposed to it .
but a majority of parliament has always adopted an uncompromising position .
madam president , i support this proposal and justify it on the basis of the fact that quite a lot has been said about iran recently .
the situation is very delicate and a lot is happening there , but there has been discussion about it .
we would very much like to see a place on the agenda to discuss the nuclear power plant at temelin , as in many member states , especially in austria , obviously , as it is next door to it , the situation is very tense .
if you are looking for support , then i would be pleased to support this proposal from the ppe because it concerns an extremely positive development in macedonia , which could in fact be further consolidated by a swift endorsement from parliament .
i shall then give my opinion of the proposed regulation , as well as the report as a whole .
specifically , this economic and financial aid must facilitate the completion of a free trade area by 2010 , to which end aid programmes have been implemented , both for macroeconomic reforms and for sectoral reforms and structural adjustments .
we must remember that the ratio between the per capita income of the european union and the meda countries is 1 to 10 , that is to say a very considerable gap .
meanwhile , measures are also being considered to facilitate private investment in these 12 countries , which in 1994 amounted to eur 3 500 million , particularly by means of updating legislation and administration , as well as by means of meetings between companies belonging to the meda countries and the european union .
the meda programme seeks to clear the way towards a definitive and lasting peace in that part of the world by means , amongst other things , of economic stability .
we are talking about a population of around 230 million people which , given the current rate of growth , will reach 300 million in 10 or 12 years time .
the barcelona agreement signed by 27 countries , those of the european union plus the 12 countries of the southern mediterranean : algeria , cyprus , egypt , israel , jordan , lebanon , malta , morocco , the palestinian authority , syria , tunisia and turkey .
the three main objectives involve the political and security dimension , the economic and financial dimension and the social , cultural and human dimension .
there has been particular criticism of sub-contracting associations such as rtm .
above all , the european parliament must take part in the process and must be kept informed more regularly , particularly through the euro-mediterranean forum .
it would be appropriate to speed up the signing of the association agreements , which to date have been signed only with 7 countries .
this particularly concerns lebanon , algeria , syria , etc .
secondly , project selection must be more democratic and must , to a greater extent , involve greater participation by civil society and ngos , who continually expressed this desire , especially at the european parliament round table held in brussels on 29 june this year , entitled ' towards a sustainable meda ' .
we would therefore ask that a report on the human rights record of each of the signatory or candidate countries be presented to parliament annually to be taken into consideration in the selection of projects .
we must therefore comment on the volume of appropriations dedicated to regional schemes which , we acknowledge , are harder to negotiate and implement but which correspond to the objective of efficiency , particularly in improving south-south relations and , above all , in safeguarding more extensive action for decentralised cooperation , which we all consider to be an important goal .
fifthly , on the subject of the six priority areas of partnership , the environment , water policy , industry , energy , transport and the information society , we think it essential to reactivate programmes disregarded until now , the smap adopted in helsinki in 1997 on the environment .
at least eur 10 million must be allocated annually for water .
i should also like to stress the interest which commissioner busquin has taken in our work , reactivating mediterranean cooperation in the field of research , particularly at the forthcoming informal summit on capri , on 29 september .
firstly , mr valdivielso de cue added , and i congratulate him on this , a fundamental idea , namely the need to make a real commitment to the mediterranean by granting this region aid comparable with that granted to the countries of eastern europe .
mr valdivielso de cue has done excellent work on all these points .
i do , however , feel that one fundamental matter , immigration , has not been sufficiently taken into account by this proposal for a regulation .
let me , in conclusion , quote mr prodi who said that immigration must become a factor in development .
i would urge the house to support the two amendments tabled to the pietrasanta report in the name of this group .
our friends in these countries understandably question our sincerity .
i accept that free access to europe for mediterranean products poses problems for producers in our southern member states , but surely this problem could be compensated at least to some extent in the cap .
i would like to remind you , commissioner , that the barcelona agreements talk about an area of free trade and economic cooperation and of security and they also talk a great deal about the cultural and human dimension .
to this end , commissioner , we ask , and my group will act in accordance with this request in the budgetary debate , for the restoration in the regulation of the amounts allocated to meda , so that these will remain at least equal in real terms to those allocated during the previous period .
while the problems in the mediterranean remain serious , and there has been considerable delay in implementing the barcelona decisions that were designed to tackle them , we cannot accept a reduction in investment .
eliminating tension and promoting balanced development in the mediterranean third countries leads to greater security , prosperity and prospects for the european union .
therefore , mediterranean policy must be a fundamental pillar of the union ' s external action , which will benefit the european union itself .
the different aspects mentioned in each report must be taken into account because they make a wonderful contribution to achieving this .
too frequently i meet people who have extensive experience of the local association movement , who feel let down by the procedures they have to follow in order to receive subsidies .
the meda programme also raises fundamental questions about our euro-mediterranean policy in general .
the growth in competition could eat away at the industrial fabric of these countries , which in some cases consists of vulnerable small and medium-sized enterprises .
an evaluation of meda i and the wording of meda ii clearly demonstrate the need for this .
it would appear from the conclusions of the european council of feira ( 19 and 20 june 2000 ) that the eu ' s mediterranean policy is founded on ' the partnership ' .
may these reports and this debate help to realise these lofty ambitions .
mr president , i too wish to stress how important relations with the southern countries are for europe , in particular with those in the mediterranean basin .
we have been working in this area for almost ten years and for the last five , the significant meda programme has been available to us .
mr president , in the development of relations with the mediterranean , europe cannot fail to give due importance to this geographical area of the world .
the mediterranean sea is the testing ground for the european parliament ' s capacities to act outside the borders of the union .
it is a well-known fact that the great europe which is a dream of so many cannot be achieved without the political and economic involvement of this major , fundamental part of the union .
mr president , now that all the honourable members ' wishes have been voiced , i feel we must resolve to make urgent changes to the way in which the implementation of the meda programmes is organised .
mr president , while discussing the meda programme it might also be important to consider the balance that is supposed to exist throughout the union .
new initiatives to support cohesion policy , such as the union ' s northern dimension that stepped into the limelight during the finnish presidential term , must also be seen as important projects for the union as a whole , especially with regard to the challenges of eastward enlargement .
mr patten , stick to your guns !
parliament ought to support you on this .
the council or the member states have a right to be consulted , but they do not have a right to co-decision .
you will be judged on enlargement towards the east , but also on whether you create your own room for manoeuvre in external policy .
mr president , as someone who lives in the mediterranean , under the mediterranean sun and who enjoys mediterranean traditions and culture , i would like to speak up for the countries of that area .
the meda programme , which largely failed in the first stage , perhaps did not appreciate that the situation of the mediterranean countries , given the direction that european politics are taking , is extremely difficult .
it is extremely difficult in those countries to change the agricultural system and , nevertheless , they have to share their products with other countries of north africa , of the mare nostrum , which belongs to everyone at the same time .
therefore , we must have a fair policy , and to this end the meda programme may be a start , although i believe that , in many cases , it is based on criteria that are important to the northern countries .
i therefore support a process of industrialisation based on innovation - we must not turn to the old industries but to innovation - and of supporting projects relating to technological innovation and training .
in this respect , i believe it is a mistake to turn to large projects .
i thought that mr linkohr made some extremely pertinent and challenging points .
mr pietrasanta 's report is also favourable towards the 1998 meda programme report .
the commission proposes to reduce excessive scrutiny arrangements for individual projects in the management committee by introducing strategic programmes through the yearly adoption of national financing plans and a regional financing plan and simplifying decision making .
the simplifications that we have requested would bring meda programming procedures in line with those of other financial instruments of eu external relations programmes .
the economic growth of these countries is of key importance to their political and social stabilisation .
in that spirit , we can fully endorse amendments nos 2 , 8 , 9 , 11 , 12 , 15 , 17 , 19 , 20 , 30 , 33 , 37 and 41 and we can partially accept amendment nos 4 , 5 , 6 , 10 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 26 , 28 , 31 , 35 , 38 and 40 providing some slight verbal modifications .
however we cannot support amendment no 25 , which proposes an individual examination of financing proposals by the med committee .
we think this is contrary to the spirit of our overall proposal on the revision of the meda regulation , because we want to streamline and simplify procedures .
enough staff to do the job is one of the key principles underlying the commission 's efforts to reform its external assistance services .
our programmes in the mediterranean are at the core of my agenda , along with the reinvigoration of the barcelona process .
our funding of programmes in the mediterranean between now and 2006 is probably the largest of all our programmes representing over 20 % of our efforts externally .
but we will be tested by what we do with meda and what we do in the balkans and by how these programmes actually work on the ground .
the vote will be taken on wednesday at 12 noon .
mr president , i believe that we all agree that in 2000 , obviously , the community already enjoys numerous and fundamental competencies in the external field .
with the cfsp , the union ' s external activity takes on a new dimension , definitively going beyond the economic field in order to participate actively in external policy .
secondly , we wish to clarify and develop the legal status of the commission ' s current external delegations , their role and their relationship with the various community institutions .
we therefore propose that the commission delegations become community delegations so that their relations with the council may be closer , through the high representative of the cfsp , as well as their relations with the european parliament and its members , thereby guaranteeing greater efficiency and political control of their activities .
thirdly and lastly , we intend to improve the coordination between the delegations and the external services of the member states .
in particular , i would like to express my gratitude for the other contributions which , in committee and with tomorrow ' s vote in parliament , greatly enrich the initial proposal .
mr president , this report on a european parliament initiative highlights an extremely important issue that we are facing , not only in the field of common foreign and security policy but in the context of enlargement of the european union itself .
it would be strange - not to say dangerous - if the european union did not at the same time strive to improve its common diplomatic instruments .
there is no excuse for lagging behind in this area , even if we take the factor of each member state ' s national interest into account as well as the almost purely economic nature of the history of the community ' s institutions between the treaty of rome and the treaty of maastricht .
it is no exaggeration to state with all certainty that diplomatic activity is becoming more and more involved in the economic sphere and to say that , in turn , economic interests cannot be protected without diplomatic activity .
it is quite clear that , amongst other obstacles , organising matters according to pillars and the fact that the european union has no legal personality both make it more difficult to achieve this aim and forced this report ' s proposals to perform some clever balancing tricks .
the wealth and diversity of diplomatic experience in the various countries of europe is also recognised throughout the world .
it would be a mistake to think that any of the proposals put forward in this report could harm processes that are under way in the field of cfsp in general , or in the field of diplomacy in particular .
the underlying aim of this report , as we understand it , following on from several discussions held over a period of months , is to bring together all relevant current experiences and processes and to direct them towards a common goal , which is , by and large , to create a genuine common european diplomatic service .
mr president , we in the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party set great store by the fact that this is not an attempt to set up a single diplomatic corps to replace the member states ' external services .
rather , it is a question of improving the quality of the external service the community already has and of improving cooperation between that service and the member states ' external services .
this means that the message we send to the european citizens can only be contradictory .
second : the accidental occurrence of contradictions in interventions by different countries on issues affecting the interests of the european union .
third : the insufficient coordination in the defence of points of view , interests and responsibilities of the european union in international bodies of a political , economic , cultural nature etc . , such as the un , the international monetary fund , the world trade organisation , the who etc .
fourth : we have also noted that the presence of the european union is weak in relation to its economic importance and also in relation to the significant presence of the united states .
we therefore believe it is important to proceed with the proposal presented in the report and , furthermore , to take more cohesive action , make a greater impact and make greater progress in that direction .
therefore , as i said at the beginning , our group will broadly support mr galeote quecedo ' s report .
the only reason for this college ' s existence is to create a common diplomatic service and to do so in a completely transparent way , as outlined in the galeote quecedo report .
the issue is of fundamental importance and there is a powerful taboo in this parliament which we are never prepared to confront : that we have fifteen national diplomatic services , which have been strengthened over years of integration by gradually taking over the competencies of all the national ministries and which have become the real powers , the main power blocking any possible reform of foreign affairs and diplomacy , because it is their power that would ultimately be under threat .
i am rather disappointed that the report does not discuss these issues and somewhat surprised that the epp has adopted this position given that , tomorrow , in another report on the union ' s political priorities , it will probably adopt a more forthright position on the communitisation of external policy .
the rapporteur rationalises his intention at the very beginning of his report .
mr galeote quecedo makes the same point himself in his explanatory statement .
mr president , the question i am dying to ask is this : to what extent do the member states themselves actually share the rapporteur ' s views ?
i believe that this report represents a move in the right direction .
this means that their specific importance in many cases , given the significant quantities they have to distribute , is greater than that of the ambassadors and of the member states .
i hope , mr president , that these initiatives will contribute effectively to the creation of a more visible and coherent external policy for european union action .
i would like to speak on behalf of the non-federalists in our group who actually feel that europe is centralising far too much and more and more powers are being taken away from people at local and national levels , basically without any proper democratic control .
i am not being nationalistic and saying that i want the irish embassy , but there is a certain amount of danger in this , particularly because it is geared towards the common foreign and security policy , which is not in the interest of the developing world or of the peoples that have been persecuted and exploited by member states of this union .
the proposal to create a community diplomatic corps and a college of diplomacy is not intended to fill a vacuum in community legislation .
there are many points of detail in the report which are particularly controversial , not least the idea of european union embassies and the suggestion that the european union should have " coordinated representation in international bodies such as the un . "
the commission 's external assistance programmes account for nearly eur 10 billion this year , and the priority task of the community delegations is to administer these programmes properly and efficiently .
he said that there is an urgent need to focus activities on core tasks and that additional staff needs will be concentrated in the area of project and programme implementation , in particular within delegations .
mr president , the informal meeting of foreign ministers in evian has , in fact , already anticipated to some degree the excellent proposals in mr galeote quecedo ' s report .
when i go on foreign trips , i always ask for a meeting to be arranged which will be attended by all the eu ambassadors , i.e .
and then there are complaints that the joint policy of the eu member states is not in the limelight enough , and that although people in indonesia know full well what japan and the united states are doing there , they do not have a clear enough idea as to what the 15 member states of the european union are doing there .
paragraph 1 - the setting up of a college of european diplomacy .
but i am taking the floor as someone who until last april was a very ordinary civil servant in the german diplomatic service , and so people might perhaps think that i would be certain to be relatively sceptical about an approach of this kind because it will surely tend to erode the powers of national colleagues .
i can say without any reservation that the commission has benefited from the report and it is bound to make a permanent impression on the way we run our external service in the future .
the fact that we called all our heads of delegation to brussels at this time is a sign of our determination to give a firm lead to the external service and to provide it with the career structure and the leadership that it deserves and needs .
members will have seen the communication on the development of the external service that was adopted by the commission on 18 july .
it recommends continuing to rebalance delegation staff between officials and local agents and continuing the regionalisation of our representation in a way that will free up 32 official posts immediately to be redeployed to delegations that need reinforcement .
however , even though some of these are urgent priorities , our first concern must be to use available resources to reinforce some of our existing delegations .
the communication also describes the measures we are taking to devolve authority from brussels to delegations in the field , known in jargon as " deconcentration . "
this is closely linked to our efforts to reform our external assistance programmes .
if we get through our reform proposals and if they are supported by the budgetary authority , in the scr and the bureau d 'assistance technique combined we will have fewer people managing our external programmes , though we will have more than at present in the scr .
but we will have fewer people in brussels and more people in the field .
a number of the points raised by the resolution , for example on regionalisation and on the evaluation of our network of external representations , are already covered in our own communication .
the report stresses the role of the commission and its delegations in the community 's external activities and it is , of course , essential that the commission 's external service be able to continue to contribute properly .
the first step must be to develop the training of officials in the commission who deal with external relations .
on the legal status of delegations i should say that although delegations are formally delegations of the commission they are under clear instructions to give all possible assistance to all the institutions of the european union and indeed to member states .
we have made it absolutely clear to our delegations that they should regard themselves as working for the high representative and for the other institutions of the european union , both when it comes to reporting and when it comes to logistical issues .
in our 1998 communication on the external service , we made it clear that any member state that wished to keep a presence in a third country without maintaining an embassy was welcome to use the commission 's delegations .
there is already a considerable degree of cooperation between member states ' embassies and commission delegations .
the commission also supports and , when appropriate , seeks to participate in co-location projects where more than one member state and / or the commission agree to occupy premises jointly .
there are ten in our delegations at the moment , with a few more due in the near future .
the restriction on the development of this programme is not lack of will on our part - i want to make that clear - but to some extent a lack of resources and also a certain reluctance on the part of the member states to respond to our invitation to second diplomats to the delegations .
we have to cooperate better without finding ourselves in a situation in which everything we do is second-guessed , not just in brussels , but in other countries as well .
all this discussion about coordination and about the future of the external service takes place against the backdrop of a treaty which talks about a common foreign and security policy , not a single foreign and security policy in a union of fifteen member states , each with its own foreign minister .
in welcoming this report and in promising active cooperation in following its recommendations i must stress that if the external service is to carry out the role which parliament wants for it , it must have the resources to do so ; that is , not just resources to place officials in third countries but also to ensure that they are properly trained , that they are equipped with the necessary information technology and that they have secure means of communication .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the debate is closed .
in this case , we have almost 600 projects which were approved in due time and which are to be financed by the ecip .
the commission has therefore proposed - after a delay which we condemn in our report , caused , of course , by the events of 1999 - to extend , not the legal basis itself , but the existence of the technical assistance offices and the means which are essential for the management of the sizeable remainder of the ecip - 590 projects - and to do so for two years .
i have to say , commissioner , that the committee on development and cooperation has been faced with the opinions of the other parliamentary committees - the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control - on this matter .
we , the committee on development and cooperation , have understood the commission ' s message , the request to assist the ecip project - which , i repeat , has contributed , along with other projects , to the creation and growth of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in third world countries and has , in effect , raised the profile of the union and enabled it to penetrate a new sector , which is therefore important to the commission - and we have therefore decided not to go along with the more restrictive opinions of the other committees or to make amendments to the commission ' s principal request to be granted two years to bring this major economic cooperation instrument to the best possible conclusion and to honour the agreements , signed before 31 december 1999 .
however , at the same time , commissioner , we have made a request : we have called upon you to inform parliament of what the commission intends to be the future of this instrument and to do so in good time for us to be able to reflect on the matter , together if possible .
we are aware of the differences of opinion and the possible conflicts of responsibilities between external relations and development and therefore between the responsibilities of the individual directorates-general , and possibly even between the responsibilities of the individual commissioners , but we are also aware that , during restructuring , the responsibility for external relations is extremely carefully reviewed by yourself , in particular , commissioner , and by the entire commission .
mr president , the committee on budgetary control unanimously supports the objectives of the ec investment partners programme .
the first point to note is that the commission is currently operating in a legal vacuum , because the proposal to continue the programme - which has after all already been extended twice - was only tabled at the end of january , that is , one month after the regulation had expired , and will not be able to be adopted until late autumn .
we endorse the legislative proposal as a stopgap measure until the end of 2001 , because we do not deny that , according to the figures published , 34 000 firms have been involved as partners , creating over 1 300 joint ventures and 42 000 jobs .
so , clearly , when you look at facilities 2 , 3 , 4 and 1b , you soon realise that the work was not done by somebody who was a banker , but by somebody who perhaps was a bureaucrat and knew nothing about finance and lending to projects which could be viable .
the socialist group supports all cooperation measures which , like this one , help to make companies , and economies in general , more dynamic , by means of private initiative .
according to the external evaluation it has been subjected to , the ecip has demonstrated a significant multiplier effect , creating jobs and joint ventures .
we now hope , commissioner , that the future programme that will replace it will add better management to these positive effects .
nevertheless , we have to say that although we are happy with the successes of this programme , we socialist members of the committee on development and cooperation suggest that the main objective of any instrument for aid , including those in the private sector , must be to reduce poverty in those countries , which is ultimately the objective of these instruments .
we cannot say that in the evaluations control has always been exercised over the quality of aid via the ecip .
for example , when a bank is established in a beneficiary country by means of ecip funds , how can we be sure that these funds are directed towards attracting investment and not simply to subsidising the presence of the bank in that country ?
now that the agreement on free trade , political concertation and cooperation between the european union and mexico has just entered into force , it is a good time to remember that we should continue with this type of financial instrument which , in some cases , such as mexico , has been used intensively and positively , and is ideally suited to strengthening commercial ties between particular blocks , such as the european union and the countries involved .
in my opinion , this requires a strengthening of human resources in the commission ' s offices in the countries involved .
mr president , the proposed ecip development programme provides a pretty picture of the european commission ' s mismanagement .
it appears that , last year , the eur 90 million that were budgeted for this programme were not even used , due to a lack of human resources available to study the dossiers , which are piled up on a desk somewhere in brussels .
lastly , the criteria for the distribution of funds between the different foci of the programme , particularly the social rights of workers , have remained impenetrably vague .
mr president , i shall be voting against the dell 'alba report , and more generally against the ecip and meda programmes , which were basically designed to finance subsidies and loans to private companies investing in latin america , asia , the mediterranean and in south africa .
the stated political aim of these programmes is to encourage the opening up of these countries ' markets to european capital .
i therefore object to these programmes across the board , because in spite of a few hypocritical phrases about fighting poverty , they all seek to provide the imperialism of the great european powers with additional instruments for getting a foothold in poorer countries and then dominating them .
mr president , we are holding a debate on an issue which is of relatively modest importance in budgetary terms , ambitious in its objectives , relatively encouraging in its results , inefficient because of its cumbersome management procedures , at times contradictory and , in short , there is clearly room for improvement in the future .
we have already talked a lot about this in relation to the acp countries and we must apply the same criteria in relation to the countries of latin america and the southern mediterranean .
let me thank mr dell 'alba and the development and cooperation committee very sincerely for their excellent work on the commission proposal on the future of the european community investment partners .
the ecip instrument operated successfully for 12 years , from 1988 to 1999 .
from 1991 , the commission sent annual reports on the implementation and on the results of ecip to parliament and to the council , of which the last covered operations in 1999 .
parliament also received the independent evaluation report that was completed in december 1999 , but , as honourable members will know , from 1997 ecip began to run into trouble .
the lack of sufficient staff to ensure the smooth management of an ever-increasing number of actions resulted in delays in the implementation of the programme , which in turn caused growing discontent among its beneficiaries .
the commission decided not to extend the instrument beyond 31 december 1999 .
this will allow better coordination with other similar european union instruments and ensure improved management and financial procedures in the light of the new commission guidelines on development policy and the management of external aid .
the approval of the proposed regulation will make possible the continued sound management of existing ecip projects and their orderly closure and winding-down as they reach completion .
as far as the suggested amendments are concerned , the commission agrees with amendment nos 1 and 2 , which correspond with our views on the need to reassess , improve and redesign the existing financial instruments for the support of private investment .
as regards amendment no 3 , the commission agrees with the principle behind it but is not in a position to provide the legislative proposals requested by parliament by the end of this year .
it will allow the commission to bring this programme to an end in a responsible manner and to launch renewed and improved initiatives for promotion of the private sector in developing countries .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the debate is closed .
this is why we have proposed - and i hope that commissioner patten , who is not listening to me at the moment , will take this proposal on board with due consideration - that an information campaign be mounted to inform the public of our countries how our money is being spent and how our resources are being used , and we propose that this information campaign should not , of course , be financed out of echo funds but out of the ad hoc funds .
mr president , the rapporteur , mr imbeni , has done an excellent job .
the united nations ' intergovernmental panel on climate change , ipcc , has reported , for example , that we can already see a , " discernible human influence on global climate . "
our concepts of crisis management ought therefore , in my opinion , also to have a socio-political dimension and be integrated into development policy and , for example , economic policy strategy .
otherwise we will , in many cases , only be repairing the damage inflicted as a consequence of our own policy , and the people in the countries of the south , in particular , will suffer as a result of the disasters which we have caused .
the second problem is directly linked to the first and yet is of a very practical nature .
mr president , commissioner , i would like to congratulate mr imbeni because i believe he has produced a splendid report and , while we were debating it in committee , we were already in complete agreement with his proposals .
the socialist group believes that aid policy must be the flagship of the european union ' s external activities insofar as it reflects the ideas which must inspire the construction of the european union , that is to say , solidarity and cohesion on a global level .
in these times of commission reform , when many community policies and procedures are being questioned , humanitarian aid has been evaluated positively by different bodies and , of course , on a political level , by parliament .
however , we , who have seen and evaluated what echo has done , believe that its work has been very positive .
this report therefore serves to ratify the principle of humanitarian aid as a right for people involved in disasters and an obligation on the part of the international community , in which the european union is a major player , in both quantitative and qualitative terms .
we have seen this in the case of mozambique and other disasters .
in this respect , the commission and the council ' s budgetary proposals are far from meeting what we believe to be the humanitarian needs .
we believe that it is essential that , when a humanitarian catastrophe occurs , whether natural or caused by man , instruments are already in place .
in this respect , we wish to highlight the importance of dipecho .
the socialist group supports the principles which govern humanitarian aid and its future in the terms which i expressed earlier .
more to the point , it can , and must , take a leading role in this field in view of the added value it offers compared with the individual states .
in order to mobilise the necessary public support for emergency aid , it would be a good idea to give greater publicity to what europe does and why .
and what this means in terms of echo , which is the seed , is that although it does not have to handle all the reconstruction work itself , it does have to make all the necessary preparations .
a number of speakers have already said as much this evening .
unfortunately , humanitarian aid cannot play this role and must not serve only to bail out a liberal policy which at the same time murders the populations of the countries in receipt of aid .
systematic training in how to deal with earthquakes and floods as well as in preventing violence would be welcome in many parts of the world .
these could also initiate cooperation with other worldwide organisations in the field of humanitarian aid , beginning with those in member states , since there is a considerable lack of coordination in their actions .
venezuela has been waiting since last december for the aid it was promised .
surely there is nothing more important in developing countries than education .
debt relief programmes for third world countries must be put in place permanently .
the joint united nations programmes on aids has already estimated that 95 % of all hiv-infected individuals live in developing countries .
the ugandan president has set up a massive programme to deal with the aids pandemic in his own country .
european union leaders are meeting in nice in december to discuss the reform of eu policy programmes .
i must remind you that in rwanda , in kosovo , in mozambique , in central america , the sacrifices , sometimes of their lives , of those working in cooperation with us , have been some of the most inspiring stories in the history of the european union .
in the small amount of time i have for this intervention i must add that i agree with the imbeni report and , in particular , i would like to highlight the following issues .
i have already referred to the problem of human resources , as well as the problem of visibility , and the objectives must be clarified .
in certain cases , in cuba for example - as you know , commissioner - in the guise of humanitarian aid , programmes are implemented which are no such thing , but simply a form of concealed cooperation , sometimes for reasons of ' ideological solidarity ' with the castro regime .
but , it is also important that we should acknowledge the enormous amount of good that our help does , day-in day-out , often in extremely difficult circumstances , often in very difficult situations right across the world .
we are the biggest providers of this humanitarian assistance in the world and it is important , occasionally , that we remember that .
in this context , the commission has decided to focus echo 's interventions based on a definition of the term " humanitarian " which is , in my judgement , generous and flexible but is not infinitely elastic .
both commissioner nielson and i want to help countries and peoples in emergencies .
the ngo sector is an extremely important channel , but the united nations and the red cross movement are also valued partners .
mr imbeni mentioned the important issue of visibility .
the humanitarian aid we give will continue to be governed by the principles of impartiality and non-discrimination laid down in our regulation and accepted by the humanitarian community worldwide .
it is an element of our external identity demonstrating that europe can act worldwide with one voice and that it can make a difference on the ground .
as the biggest single source of humanitarian aid funding worldwide , as i said earlier , the european union has a responsibility to be not just the biggest in terms of quantity but the best in terms of delivery .
that is our clear and ambitious goal .
what has most depressed me about the international scene over the years is that , in practice , our ability to deliver humanitarian relief rapidly in the most unpromising circumstances has increased a great deal more than our ability to prevent that humanitarian assistance being necessary in the first place .
the honourable member 's report will make a significant contribution to that .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the debate is closed .
welcome ladies and gentlemen , it is my great pleasure to welcome a group of municipal councillors from malaga this morning .
our visitors include the wife and daughter of jose maria martin carpena , a popular party municipal councillor in malaga , who was assassinated by eta on 15 july .
ladies , allow me to say that your presence with us here today illustrates your courage in coping with this horrendous experience , which was made all the more painful by your witnessing this heinous murder .
in all sincerity , i can do no more than offer you our deepest sympathy .
yesterday , as you know , this house paid its respects to the victims of terrorism in spain and observed a minute ' s silence in their memory .
faced with this , under the rule of law , we democrats can only unite to defend our system of freedom from the tyranny of terror and trust in judicial action .
for sixteen years i had the honour of being mayor of the city to which martin carpena dedicated his life and of presiding over the council in which he worked .
therefore , when all the social and communication institutions of europe can react with the courage of this parliament and when the fifteen different populations have the same attitude to eta ' s attacks , terrorism will be all but finished .
on behalf of the socialist group then , madam president , i would like to pay the warmest of tributes to the memory of martin carpena and also offer my best wishes to the family and colleagues of this murdered councillor .
madam president , the presence of the group of councillors from malaga and , in particular , the presence of the widow of martin carpena can help us to regain that sense of hope which eta wants to stamp out .
i believe that their presence is without doubt something which will allow us to believe that the basque people can regain its capacity for dialogue and can return to peace .
madam president , on behalf of the group of the european united left , i would also like to pay tribute to councillor martin carpena and express my admiration and gratitude to him , his family , his wife , his friends and , through them , to all the families of those people who , in the course of their duties , have lost their lives to terrorism .
i would like to say to his family and friends that his sacrifice has not been in vain and that they have been at the front line in the defence of democracy , through their bravery and courage , not only in the basque country and in spain , but also in europe .
that is why all the political groups , in unison , are today reaffirming their commitment to the defence of democracy and thanking those friends and families of people like martin carpena for the example they set .
please be assured that the sacrifice of martin carpena has not been in vain .
i therefore hope that all countries will join forces even more emphatically than in the past in order to find these paths of peace and dialogue and that nobody will try to seek political gain from such attacks .
the middle east the next item is the council and commission statements on the middle east .
this is an issue which we addressed at our informal meeting of ministers of foreign affairs in evian on saturday and sunday .
you quite rightly decided , madam president , ladies and gentlemen , to address the question of the situation in the middle east .
this decision was all the more timely given that this region , which has been the scene of a number of particularly striking events over recent months , is approaching what may prove to be an historical watershed .
i also see their , to my knowledge , unprecedented visit as a gesture of recognition of the european union ' s unceasing efforts to promote peace in the region , a recognition which is also accompanied by high expectations of europe .
i shall now endeavour to explain our analysis of recent developments and of the current state in the region and future prospects of the peace process .
we have witnessed a number of extremely important incidents in the middle east over recent months , such as the camp david summit and israel ' s withdrawal from southern lebanon .
the death of the syrian president , hafez el assad , under whom syria became an important player in the region , occurred at the same time .
the accession to power in israel of ehud barak , who was elected on a platform of peace , and yasser arafat ' s unstinting determination to keep the dialogue alive allowed the peace negotiations to resume , thereby helping to resolve the stalemate which had dogged the peace process for several years .
the second redeployment was completed on 24 march 2000 , i.e .
other provisions have not been properly implemented .
the recent camp david summit was held in response to this situation and , even though it did not achieve the hoped-for agreement , it did open new prospects on all aspects of permanent status and , as such , cannot be considered a failure .
it was in fact the first time that they had debated all aspects of permanent status without any taboos and neither hesitated in advancing and relaxing the positions of principle which they had hitherto presented as non-negotiable .
the progress achieved at camp david needs to be consolidated and final concessions are necessary , especially on the question of jerusalem , refugees and , above all , the holy places .
camp david opened up new possibilities .
the israeli prime minister , who was elected on a platform of peace , wants an agreement , and an agreement is just as much in his interests as it is in the interests of president arafat , who has stood by his decision to become involved in the oslo process .
as for the deadline of 13 september set in the sharm el-sheikh agreement for concluding permanent status negotiations , it cannot be postponed indefinitely unless the negotiations show some tangible sign of progress and the prospect of an early outcome .
if the hope raised by camp david is to be made reality , the parties must , first and foremost , continue to be involved and to demonstrate the same commitment and will as they have shown hitherto .
the european union is prepared in this context to do whatever it can to guarantee that the efforts being made will be successful .
you also noticed how just how strong expectations of europe still were .
it was this concern to affirm the role of europe and meet the parties ' expectations which prevailed when a special european union envoy was appointed back in 1996 .
ambassador moratinos - whom i greet and who has held this post for the last four years - has managed to give europe a profile in the middle east by cultivating daily contacts with all the leaders in the region .
finally , europe has developed a cooperation policy with all the countries in the middle east in a bid to create the right conditions for harmonious economic and social development and , at the same time , strengthen regional integration , which is crucial if peace is to gain a permanent foothold .
as a result , as you all know , europe has underwritten nearly half the financial commitments to international aid to palestine since 1993 .
it is , of course , and i should like to stress this point , prepared to help with the full implementation of the agreements that have been concluded when the time comes .
however , the camp david discussions give us an initial idea of what the outlines of a future agreement may be .
i should like to say in this context that , in our view , a palestinian state will inevitably emerge , but it must be a viable , peaceful and democratic state .
this right to a state and , hence , to proclaim statehood must not be subject to any veto .
however , as the european union has already stated , it would obviously prefer a palestinian state to emerge from a completed process of negotiation .
its position on this question is as stated in the berlin declaration of march 1999 .
as you may have noticed , even the palestinians are now questioning the advisability , the conditions and , most importantly , the timing of their proclamation of statehood in the light of current developments .
the exchange of views between the ministers of foreign affairs of the fifteen during the recent informal meeting in evian , which i referred to earlier confirmed that the european approach in support of the peace process hitherto is the right one .
it is vital but it alone cannot guarantee peace and stability in the middle east .
in addition , it is time , as the president of the french republic recently stressed , for syria and israel to return to the negotiating table , given that the present status quo is in the interests of neither country .
israel ' s withdrawal from southern lebanon on 24 may of this year put an end to 22 years of occupation and , as a result , ' re-dealt the cards ' , as it were .
this withdrawal , which was certified by the secretary-general of the united nations on 16 june , is a positive factor on more than one count .
so far , the difficulties have been overcome and it has been possible to implement the provisions of resolution 425 .
the question of israeli incursions along the blue line was settled after two months of wrangling .
on 27 july , the security council adopted resolution 1310 extending the unifil mandate for a further six months .
on 5 august , the lebanese government agreed for the force to be redeployed in the former occupied zone and , since then , unifil has set up a number of permanent posts in the zone and taken up its position along the israeli-lebanese border .
the redeployment of unifil and the lebanese government ' s dispatch of a mixed security force to the south are , in our view , positive developments .
the situation along the border with israel is , however , still volatile .
the lebanese government therefore needs to accept all its responsibilities here in order to create the conditions needed so that unifil can exercise its mandate in full .
the situation in southern lebanon can only be stabilised if this region , which has suffered enormously from the occupation and the war , is rehabilitated and reintegrated into lebanon ' s economic and social fabric .
the european union is of course more than ready to help reconstruct southern lebanon as soon as conditions on the ground allow .
it intends to give very precise expression to its aid to lebanon at the donors ' conference for the reconstruction of southern lebanon which is scheduled for the autumn under our presidency .
in addition , the changes taking place in the region give cause , we hope , to anticipate a gradual change in relations between syria and lebanon ; here too the situation is no less volatile and we are convinced that only an israeli-syrian agreement , in application of security council resolution 242 and the principle of land for peace , will allow fair and lasting peace to be established in the region .
we must admit that circumstances do not appear to augur well for the resumption of negotiations between israel and syria , at least not in the short term .
during his investiture address on 7 july , president bashar al-assad indicated that he was anxious to conclude an agreement with israel , reiterating that everything was negotiable except the line of 4 june 1967 .
ehud barak , for his part , called on syria to conclude what he called a ' peace of the brave ' , an expression with which we concur .
my reading is that recent developments in the region are not linked solely to developments in the peace process , even if it does play a vital part .
it comes first and foremost within the wider context of the barcelona euro-mediterranean process , which is an expression of the european union ' s wish to develop a global strategy for this region which is so close to and so inextricably bound up with us .
gentlemen , your joint presence in our house and the addresses which you will shortly give are a highly symbolic gesture .
madam president , i should like to begin by associating the commission wholeheartedly with the moving remarks that you made yesterday about terrorism and about the courage of those who have been martyred for democracy and also with the remarks made this morning by members of this house .
i should also like to say what an honour it is to discuss the question of a peace settlement in the middle east in the presence of some of those who have it in their hands to bring about this historic development .
i am sure we would all want to pay tribute to the skilful and persistent diplomacy of president clinton and secretary of state madeline albright .
it is a great pleasure to see our own representative , who has done so much to ensure that the european union 's presence in the region is felt .
the berlin european council declaration remains the position of the european union .
president arafat has received wise advice to postpone the planned declaration of an independent palestinian state on 13 september .
we have a key role to play in syria in terms of actively encouraging economic reform and modernisation in the interests of syria and in the interests of regional stability .
i had an extremely good visit to syria , albeit too brief , earlier in the year , at which we significantly moved forward our dialogue on economic issues and on the assistance we can provide .
the european union will assist with the reconstruction of southern lebanon as soon as the commission conditions permit .
the lebanese government must maintain order in the south and in addition it must translate its generic aid requests into concrete and realistic proposals .
we will outline our strategies as soon as these conditions are met and , as many members know , we have had an assessment mission in the area to see exactly what we can do on the ground as soon as possible .
it will not surprise the house to know that we intend to work in areas like mine clearance where we have so much experience , areas which are vital to the restoration of normal economic life and decent social conditions in south lebanon .
at the same time as we are preparing for a possible role in implementing any peace agreement , we are also focusing on the regional scenario after a peace settlement .
when conflict is a thing of the past , it is important to recognise that a peace settlement would transform everybody 's prospects .
sustained economic growth and economic stability are the keys to regional peace and consolidation of that peace in the years ahead .
people are more likely to support peace if they feel that their living conditions are improving .
disparities are growing both within the region and , as was said in the debate that we had yesterday on meda , between the region and the european union .
in addition , the regional labour market will come under strong pressure because of high population growth resulting from the welcome incorporation of more women into the labour market and the future integration of palestinian refugees into the economies of the region .
i referred to the interesting debate that we had yesterday evening on meda and our attempts to speed up and simplify the regulation so that we can deliver our assistance in the region much more rapidly .
the european union as a whole , the commission , member states , and the eib , are responsible for about 50 % of all the economic assistance in the region .
over the last few years our assistance in the region has been averaging about eur 800 million , that is from the commission and the eib , about eur 450 million from the commission and the rest from the eib .
that is a substantial investment in the future prosperity and well-being of the region , but i am still seeking to ensure that the resources available are spent more effectively and more rapidly .
in that document we will be stressing the vital significance of greater regional cooperation and more trade and cooperation between the countries to the south and not just between europe and the countries of the south .
i repeat : this is clearly a historic opportunity to secure a peace that would bring prosperity as well as stability to our neighbours to the south .
we stand ready to help them both to achieve peace and to build on the foundations that a peace settlement would lay .
madam president , since the creation of the state of israel , we have surely never been so close to a lasting and stable peace agreement in the middle east .
the withdrawal of the israeli troops from southern lebanon , the will demonstrated by the new syrian president and the clear progress made at camp david - as has been mentioned here this morning - seem to offer us a panorama in which peace is actually within reach .
of course we offer our services by means of the european union ' s special envoy , ambassador moratinos , whom i welcome .
we undoubtedly offer a guarantee in terms of the future economic development of the region , which would no doubt result from the peace agreement , through our cooperation and investment , as commissioner patten has correctly reminded us .
however , we should ask ourselves whether this is worthy of the responsibility and aspirations of the european union on an international level .
no group is offering greater support than the european people ' s party to the governments promoting the peace process , especially to the united states .
from this point of view we propose that next year , when we celebrate the tenth anniversary of the conference which gave rise to this peace process , the european union should once again bring together , in a repeat of the madrid meeting , the leaders who participated in that conference .
meanwhile , we should reaffirm the european union ' s full commitment to the peace process and our willingness to honour our historic , economic and also political responsibilities in the region .
i would ask the two presidents to deliver a message to their people : they have come here and they have seen how the representatives of peoples who have been age-old enemies and who have waged war for centuries , can work together and in peace , and can share values .
above all , i believe that we should point out the importance of what is at stake at the moment because , until now , there had been no real negotiation of the situation of the palestinian refugees since 1948 , the continuation of the israeli settlements and the establishment of definitive borders .
as some experts have said , on religious issues there are no half measures , but , if we are talking about the religions of the book , which preach the love of god and our fellow man , it must be possible to find a solution between people .
lastly , madam president , i believe that , from the point of view of european union action , we must try to strengthen the euro-mediterranean process , bring syria out of its isolation , strengthen the process in the whole of the region and , above all , send a message to the middle east which indicates that the european union , as a union of age-old enemies , wishes to participate fully in the creation of a shared peaceful future in the middle east .
we all very much regret that the camp david negotiations came to nothing .
as far as the european union is concerned , we hope that it will speak with one voice and assume a more pro-active role - and i particularly refer to a more pro-active role in the political field - and will thus contribute to the peace process .
madam president , i have been present in jerusalem as a provisional member of parliament ' s delegation for relations with israel .
at the same time , everyone appreciates that the un decisions cannot directly be implemented by peaceful means .
the palestinians are prepared to make concessions over territory .
it is therefore important that the eu should stick by the berlin decision to recognise a palestinian state without conditions as soon as the palestinians see fit to declare such a state , to which they are entitled .
madam president , my group asked for a major debate on the situation in the middle east to be included in this part-session .
it also suggested that high-ranking israeli and palestinian leaders be invited jointly to the european parliament .
we are therefore delighted by the initiatives taken in this direction and warmly welcome the speakers of the two assemblies who have honoured us with their presence .
i think the time is right to clearly reiterate the terms of the unequivocal declaration adopted by the berlin european council in march 1999 , in which the fifteen stated that they were ready to recognise a palestinian state .
so let the european union clearly reaffirm the position which it took in berlin and encourage the palestinians to make precisely this gesture .
i think that europe ' s third message should contain a guarantee that the future global agreement will be implemented to the end , unlike - alas - all the partial agreements which have succeeded each other since oslo .
the united states alone cannot provide this guarantee .
madam president , thank you very much indeed for arranging this very important debate at this particular time .
we should fully recognise that the palestinians and the israeli government are now negotiating on bottom line issues , including the status of jerusalem , the borders of the palestinian state , the fate of jewish settlements and the right of return of palestinian refugees .
i very much hope that the middle east will resume peace talks in the near future .
permanent status negotiations resumed in september 1999 .
eu heads of state have affirmed on a number of occasions that the security of the israeli and palestinian people both collectively and individually must always be protected .
i support the principle of exchanging land for peace and the continuing and unqualified palestinian right to self-determination .
i am calling on the israeli government and the palestinian leadership to take the necessary steps to re-establish mutual confidence , accept the need to make concessions and focus on the overriding goal of achieving lasting peace and stability in the region .
the peace talks between israel and the palestinians are not the only matter up for discussion within the middle east .
there has been peaceful progress on the lebanese-israeli border since the lebanese government gained authority within the region , and we all must certainly welcome the fact that southern lebanon is now at peace .
the first step in the current peace process was taken when israel and egypt concluded the camp david peace treaty in 1979 .
we can all take solace from the fact that the key protagonists in this difficult political equation are now addressing the most vexed and thorny bottom line issues that have to be resolved if a permanent peace agreement is to be put in place in the middle east .
in popular speech , arafat has inherited this dubious arab title of honour from saddam hussein .
it is exactly this palestinian homage after camp david 2000 which shocked amos oz , a recognised israeli champion of peace and noted author .
earlier this week , arafat reiterated this palestinian political claim in the context of the meeting of the arab league in cairo : " we will not accept an agreement without obtaining all the rights we are entitled to pursuant to international resolutions " .
so this includes un resolution 194 which stipulates the right to return on the part of palestinian refugees .
madam president , as a representative of a christian political party , i am not an unquestioning defender of israel ' s political interests .
madam president , europe has a special historical responsibility for the peace process in the middle east .
the fact that the foreign minister himself responded to the last peace negotiations by stepping down , serves as a reminder to us that above all in israel , which is the stable democracy in the region , every step taken by the politicians must have the backing of the majority of the israeli people .
madam president , mr president-in-office , commissioner , this is not the first time that the house has concluded that the situation in the middle east is critical .
it is critical both for the middle east itself and for the european union because , apart from all the important issues which the peace process encompasses , it represents a new challenge for the common european foreign policy .
in other words , the european union must play a more active , more systematic and more intensive role in projects in the region and , of course , in the peace process .
let us not forget that the highly important un resolution 242 was devised mainly by europe .
mr president , will the united nations millennium summit which took place this week be the last chance summit ?
six weeks after talks broke down at camp david , bill clinton is due to meet ehud barak and yasser arafat in new york tomorrow , after a month of intensive , albeit less media-attracting negotiation .
everyone has his or her own interpretation of the outcome of camp david and of the responsibilities incumbent upon either side .
the gulf is still wide , although certain historical taboos have been broken .
it is our historical and moral duty as well as our desire to become a full political partner very quickly , tomorrow if possible , and the simultaneous presence here of avraham burg , the speaker of the knesset , and ahmed qurie , the speaker of the palestinian legislative council , both of whom i welcome , cannot but augur well in this respect .
mr president , i arrived back yesterday from palestine and israel , where over a thousand italians - representatives of district , provincial and regional councils - have been spending a week building peace bridges between palestinians and israelis and setting up projects for cooperation with the palestinian people .
jerusalem is at the centre of the conflict , and it is one of the key factors in the peace process .
for the israelis , before camp david , no part of jerusalem could be touched .
yet the israeli negotiators are still extremely uncompromising , for the problem is not that the palestinians do not want to make concessions but that they have the right to the return of the territories occupied in 1967 which is enshrined in the un resolutions .
as commissioner patten said , the israeli government has many times failed in its obligations following the oslo negotiations : they have not adhered to the timetable laid down in the agreements for the withdrawal of troops from the occupied territories .
however , a genuine tragedy for the peace process and the future of the palestinian state is the continued increase in israeli settlements : under the barak government , over 41 000 settlers moved into in the occupied territories .
it is on everyone 's lips , but peace can only be achieved if each person is allowed to exercise his right of citizenship in his own free state .
as europeans , we must make every possible endeavour - over and above the economic efforts which we are already making , we must increase our political role - to ensure that the law prevails and that the palestinians are able to live in their democratic state , which we must recognise as we recognise the israeli state , so that jerusalem becomes an open city , a city of the world , the capital city of two peoples and two states .
as for weapons of mass destruction , i agree that somebody like saddam hussein should not have control of them , but there are others in the region who should not either .
the market in weapons is now so competitive that some of the most horrific despots are getting bargain basement deals for weapons of mass destruction .
they believe that the oslo negotiations and the various camp david discussions would have conferred legitimacy on such a step .
it is a unique problem which requires a unique response .
jerusalem should not be regarded as an arab city or a jewish city , a christian city or a muslim city .
just as we were delighted to remove berlin walls in europe , we do not want to see similar walls erected in jerusalem .
mr president , as far as the middle east and the israeli-palestinian peace process is concerned , i have always counted myself among those in the house who say that it is up to the people of the region and their leaders to define the terms of their peaceful coexistence , just as it is up to them to make the efforts and sacrifices needed on both sides in order to do so .
as a european , i set great store by the euro-mediterranean balance and if , like many others , i have somewhat regretted the european union ' s lack of political clout in this process , i have likewise always refused to sit here in parliament and play at being teacher , to coin a phrase .
that is why i am in total agreement with the position stated by pierre moscovici and what i would say today is that we shall not help to bring about peace by taking sides in the debate and in the difficult negotiations under way .
it can be summarised in three points : we want a peace agreement in the middle east , we shall support and guarantee a peace agreement once it has been signed and we shall use every possible means , including but not only financial means , to help ensure that it is implemented .
to conclude , we know full well that peace is always a difficult process .
however , we feel - and here we agree with the report - that this peace agreement which is being drawn up has increased the possibilities and that there is a way forward .
we feel that everything that can be possibly be done now and in the future , including in terms of equal opportunities , must be done and followed up : the palestinian people has the right to self-determination , without prejudice to the rights of the state of israel .
europe must become a political body and negotiate to achieve peace in this case as well , doing everything in its power to ensure that lasting peace is established in the mediterranean .
i will illustrate the importance of this with a historical reference : in the 1980 venice declaration , proposed by ministers genscher and colombo , the community first of all established the need for a solution to be found to the palestinian question through negotiations .
following his visit to rome in 1982 for the conference of the interparliamentary union , things at last started to move and not only did arafat obtain his visa but - following the preparatory work carried out in oslo - the united states started to play an active part in the palestinian question .
by an international statute i do not mean that the city would have an international administration , but merely that , as an international community , we must direct this initiative so that the statutory instrument - irrespective of who has territorial sovereignty over jerusalem - commits all parties to a system of international control , so that every believer - whether christian , jew or muslim - is , at last , guaranteed access to the holy sites .
mr president , arabs and palestinians have committed terrible historical errors and injustices , but they have also paid the price for them .
you have all naturally focused in your interventions on the peace process and the negotiations , which are without doubt the key to progress in this region of the middle east .
and so , i repeat , we have an historic opportunity to put an end to this conflict which has lasted so very long .
having said which , every historic opportunity has its historic risk .
president mubarak was in paris at the end of last week and i think he used an excellent phrase which sums up the situation perfectly : ' peace is now or never ' .
we can always wish for a more active europe .
the european union intervenes in support of the negotiations .
secondly , the european union makes a contribution to the debate on issues connected with the negotiations .
there is all the action which commissioner patten summarised .
there is also the barcelona process , which offers us a particularly suitable framework , provided that we make full use of its potential .
we sincerely hope , however , that developments in the peace process will make it possible to hold a meeting not just at ministerial level , but also at head of state and government level in order to set the seal , as it were , on the emergence of a new era in the middle east .
our democratic values , our common will to foster peace and security in the world and our history guide us towards such a role .
the community ' s economic clout , its primary role in promoting development , and its privileged links with numerous countries or groups of countries also allow us to take on such a role .
the french presidency ' s first objective is to give new momentum to the accession negotiations .
the prospect of enlargement is the basic question which we europeans have to answer , the huge challenge which faces us over coming years .
that is why the french presidency is determined to ensure that the igc is a success and conclude ' a nice treaty in nice ' , in order to prevent any delays to enlargement and ensure that we can welcome the first candidate countries to a union with more efficient institutions .
all in all , our objective , in close consultation with the commission and commissioner verheugen , is to arrive in nice at an overall vision of the state of negotiations , thereby efficiently guiding the work of the following presidencies and preparing the way for the completion of negotiations .
the various reports currently being examined in our committees and the debate on enlargement planned for october will give us further food for thought .
hence the main deadlines during our presidency will be as follows : a ministerial negotiating session will be held with each of the 12 candidates either on 21 november , for some of the candidates , or on 5 december , preceded by two meetings at ambassadorial level in the autumn .
as far as the fifteen are concerned , we shall be organising a politically-orientated debate at the general affairs council on 20 november on the basis of the overall report and the individual progress reports on each candidate country which the commission is due to submit to the council at the beginning of november .
finally , we shall be convening the european conference twice , once in sochaux on 23 november for the ministers of european affairs of the fifteen and ministers from the candidate countries , and once in nice on 7 december for the heads of state and government , at the opening of the biarritz summit .
the union indicated in helsinki that it would be ready to welcome the first new members on 1 january 2003 , as soon as the procedure for ratifying what we hope will be the future nice treaty has been completed but , as the heads of state and government stressed at the feira summit , the countries in question must not only transpose the community acquis , but more important still , they must be able to implement and really apply it .
this is naturally a very complicated and , as we well know , a difficult task for the candidate countries , but the community is already helping by supporting the efforts of each country .
these efforts are vital in order to complete the enlargement process under way in a serious and controlled manner and thus enable the most advanced countries to accede as quickly as possible .
as far as turkey is concerned , i would just like to say briefly that recognition of its candidate status in helsinki marked an important step which my country , france , supported .
the presidency will work in the council to have the accession partnership for this country adopted and will continue to conduct a detailed analysis of the acquis .
it will also ensure that the union honours its financial aid commitments with a view to setting up a single framework covering all aid instruments to turkey .
it goes without saying , however , that accession negotiations will be quite out of the question until such time as turkey complies with the copenhagen criteria , especially the democratic criteria , although any progress in this direction will of course encourage us to adopt the measures which i have just mentioned .
the french presidency ' s second objective is to push ahead with the european common security and defence policy by implementing the decisions taken in helsinki and feira .
the union now has the instruments which it needs in order to apply a common foreign policy .
our objective , which the crises in bosnia and , more recently , in kosovo have taught us , is to provide a global response to the manifold and extraordinarily complex dimensions of today ' s crises : not just ethnic crises , but also sociological , administrative , judicial , security-related and military crises .
in other words , the french presidency hopes to take part in an extremely ambitious project which will of necessity take several years to complete .
the three main issues are as follows : as regards countries ' abilities to meet the objectives , the commitment conference which we shall be holding on 20 november will give each member state the chance to state how it intends to help achieve the overall objective defined in helsinki ; as regards the permanent political and military institutions , our presidency has to prepare for the transition to the final , operational stage which will allow the union to manage a crisis in all its dimensions as quickly as possible .
finally , we need to implement the feira decisions on relations with nato and with third counties in connection with military crisis management and the continuing work to strengthen civil crisis management instruments .
the french presidency ' s third priority will be to develop strategic partnerships between the union and its neighbours and the main regional blocs .
as a sign of the importance which the union attaches to developing relations with the balkans region , which we wish to see enjoying peace and democracy , france has proposed that croatia host a summit on 24 november with the countries of the former yugoslavia which , although at varying stages , have made the most progress with their democratic development .
developing the strategic partnership with russia and the ukraine is another priority of the french presidency , which is due to host the eu / ukraine summit in paris in 10 days ' time and the eu / russia summit on 30 october .
the framework for action by the french presidency of the union vis-a-vis russia is defined by the conclusions adopted by the feira european council , which offered to support the efforts being made by president putin and the new russian government to modernise and reform russia .
the council reiterated in july that only a political solution would bring about a lasting settlement of this conflict .
finally , despite the uncertainty hanging over the future of the peace process in the middle east , which we have just debated , developing our euro-mediterranean relations is one of the french presidency ' s main concerns .
we hope to take general stock of the barcelona process and assess cooperation under the meda programme during the ministerial meeting in marseilles on 16 november and , if circumstances allow , at the summit which may then be organised for the following day in order to define guidelines to give new impetus to euro-mediterranean cooperation .
during this meeting , as far as the peace process is concerned , the european union should play a major role in supporting the two sides and the agreements which they conclude .
finally , the presidency is keen to implement the common strategy on the mediterranean adopted in feira and ensure that the new meda regulation is adopted .
as far as the association agreements are concerned , let me repeat that it hopes to sign the agreement with egypt and achieve substantial progress in negotiations with lebanon , syria and algeria .
beyond its immediate environment , the french presidency will ensure that it develops political dialogue with the main regional blocs .
a summit will be held in seoul on 20 and 21 october and we also hope to resume the dialogue between the eu and asean .
history will record two important summits with key countries in the region during the french presidency .
the summit with japan on 19 july decided to start revising the 1991 declaration and preparing an action plan for adoption at the summit in 2001 .
the other summit , with china , will be held in beijing on 23 october .
france has also suggested that its partners consider the future of relations with cuba .
the union - as i have said - has numerous instruments at its disposal which allow it to influence developments in international relations .
thus , its diplomatic presence in the world , both that of the fifteen and of the commission , is unique both in terms of staff numbers and geographical coverage .
similarly , the union now constitutes an active and coherent group in the united nations , where its points of view are represented in every forum .
finally , its financial resources , our financial resources , are considerable .
however , we all know the weaknesses in the union ' s external action : lack of visibility , inadequate coordination on occasions , flexibility which leaves much to be desired , too little influence in international institutions , especially bretton woods .
the ministers of foreign affairs of the fifteen therefore opened a debate at the instigation of hubert vedrine during the recent informal meeting at evian , based on the excellent work presented by mr patten on behalf of the commission and by the secretary-general of the council to the high representative for the cfsp , javier solana , who was also present in evian .
at central level , this must be done by reaffirming the coordinating role of the general affairs council in order to improve the coherence of external action in all its aspects .
we intend to cooperate in this and many other areas with both the commission , which will be the main driving force in this area , as it is in every other area , and with the european parliament .
i want to congratulate the french presidency without reservation on the priority that they have given to this extremely important practical issue .
just before the summer break , as some members may have read in the newspapers , we discussed in the commission the demands , the constraints and priorities of the european union 's external relations , our understanding of what should be the commission 's external role and some of the problems we encounter in performing it .
one of the five objectives of the european union , as set out in article 2 of the treaty , is that it should assert its identity on the international scene .
it reflects first of all the european union 's political interests , including a growing role in the area of security , which the president-in-office referred to in his interesting remarks .
it reflects our responsibilities for external assistance which have grown exponentially in recent years .
the european union and its member states now provide 55 % of total international aid and two thirds of global non-refundable aid .
it is worth remembering that less than 20 years ago relations with greece , spain and portugal were external affairs for the european community as it then was .
our prime task in the european union 's external relations is surely the projection of stability , both in our immediate neighbourhood and beyond .
a more stable neighbourhood and a more stable world guarantee a more stable european union .
the skills that the european union has brought to its own development are skills which offer an example and a model elsewhere in the world .
foreign policy is and will remain fundamentally a matter for national governments , in other words for member states .
that is why the union chose to move on from political cooperation , why the treaty of amsterdam created the new high representative for cfsp and why there is an important role for the commission and for the european parliament in trying to make a common - i stress common not single - foreign and security policy more effective .
the new structures , procedures and instruments of cfsp recognise the need to harness the strengths of the european community in the service of european foreign policy .
it would be absurd to divorce european foreign policy from the institutions which have been given responsibility for most of the instruments for its accomplishment , for external trade , external assistance , many of the external aspects of justice and home affairs and so on .
that is why the commission participates fully in the decision-making process in the council , that is why we have a shared right of initiative - not a sole but a shared right of initiative - in these issues .
there needs to be a sensible and sensitive partnership in the external field between the institutions of the union , including the european parliament , and its member states .
we should be engaged in a common effort to make sure that world 's largest trading group also makes its presence felt politically .
it is very easy in the external field , perhaps more than any other , to make grandiloquent statements about great issues such as peace in the middle east , a stable and productive relationship with russia , international development .
apart from the detailed foreign policy issues on our agenda like the situation in the middle east , we were looking at how we decide our overall annual priorities in external relations and how we apportion the budget .
as i said before , when i made a presentation to the council on the budget and on our priorities in may it was the first time this had ever happened .
earlier this year , as well as that presentation to foreign ministers , i hope that i gave the european parliament exactly the same candid presentation on our external relations budget .
that is important in the council and it is important in the parliament because you are the budgetary authority .
we cannot spend more than you allow us to but in that case you should not ask us to do more than is possible and criticise us when we have to make judgments about priorities .
thirdly , i am working with javier solana to create sensible structures and the right division of responsibilities between the commission and the high representative for the cfsp .
the institutional relationship between the commission and the high representative is evolving , as is the precise role of the european parliament in the cfsp .
one example is conflict prevention , which may involve issues that are not part of the normal diplomatic agenda .
in the discussions we had in the g8 foreign ministers ' meetings i was struck by the extent to which the foreign and security policy agenda is changing and bringing together disparate issues in which the community has almost unique competence , for example in the environmental field .
there was a lot of discussion about better coordination , better coordination between member states and all the institutions of the european union , which i know is a serious priority of the french presidency and one which i totally share .
we must ensure - and mr patten has the right approach in proposing the reorganisation of external assistance - that we strengthen the power to act of our community bodies , and that we improve the way in which work is carried out there and make it more effective .
on the other hand though , we must also guarantee the same level of transparency and control that the public expects from national governments and national parliaments .
there was a formal delegation which i chaired from parliament to the usa in june and there is an understandable confusion when another group of meps some three weeks later arrive in the usa , to all intents and purposes also a european parliament delegation .
we were merely visiting the united states as a group organised from within our own national groups .
we represented the views of our national parties over there as well as the views expressed within the european parliament .
i am very sorry , mrs read , but i cannot allow you to speak again , as we are already running late .
but we need more if we want to give our mediterranean policy a new lease of life : we need to involve the people more by supporting decentralised cooperation , we need to improve the way in which the cultural and human dimensions are integrated , open the free trade zone to agricultural produce and monitor and support fundamental freedoms .
i fully support the rapporteur ' s proposal that an annual report be drafted on human rights in the mediterranean countries .
it is also established ( in paragraph o ) that the purpose is not to create a single diplomatic service for the eu to replace the foreign services of the member states .
this draft initiative , however , forms part of a creeping and continuing change in the nature of the european union .
in the 1950s , the existence of the forerunners of the european union was justified in terms of voluntary cooperation between european states and peoples in order to regulate a number of cross-border issues of mutual interest .
my party , the socialist party in the netherlands , considers the return of such a superstate as a threat to democracy , public services , peace and refugees .
i am voting against this new step in the wrong direction .
the common instrument is supposed to produce the common conscience , the common will , the common responsibility .
it is the complementarity of this individual expertise which can be used for a clearly-defined common objective which really serves european interests .
in fact , we are eroding national will , despite the fact that it is the diplomatic driving force behind europe and , at the same time , we express surprise when the increasing number of instruments and declarations is reflected merely by an absence of content and a general lack of interest .
the only positive aspect of this report might be its desire to rationalise the organisation and improve the professionalism of the european commission delegations in third countries .
experience has shown that these delegations are not always up to their real job , which is to implement community programmes and agreements and monitor them on the ground .
this last point apart , you will understand that we obviously did not vote in favour of the other , totally surrealist proposals in this initiative report .
i cannot therefore vote in favour of mr galeote quecedo ' s report .
moreover , i would call upon the commission to increase its expenditure , for it is extremely important for europe to maintain a presence in the world and to give a high profile to its presence through , among other things , a symbol and greater publicity of this important activity .
mr president , a single example , taken from the explanatory statement , illustrates just how laughable the report on the humanitarian activities of the european union is .
the report cites the absence of operational tools , especially helicopters , as the reason for the lack of international aid in general and the lack of aid from the european institutions in particular , in dealing with the floods in mozambique , whereas - and who could forget ? - there was no lack of helicopters , aeroplanes , every type of transportation equipment and even means of destruction when it came to intervening in yugoslavia or iraq .
the only conclusion to be drawn from this is that the major powers , which are capable of mobilising huge resources in order to impose their hegemony on the rest of the world , are not prepared to make the slightest effort when it comes to saving human lives .
this report is fully in keeping with the philosophy of our institution , which has always made its voice heard in the least well off countries , through its opinions , its resolutions or specific action to improve and develop humanitarian aid .
since the european community humanitarian office ( echo ) was created at the beginning of the 1990s , europe has taken its place as the biggest donor in the world .
however , despite legitimate efforts driven by historical links between certain european countries and developing countries , we are forced to admit that poverty is increasing throughout the world .
without the emergency aid provided by echo in order to deal with the natural disasters or serious crises which regularly hit the most vulnerable people on our planet , i hardly dare imagine the situation which we would have to deal with today .
in it , she voices her belief that it would have come to riots in austria had the 14 eu states not imposed sanctions against austria .
i think that you will understand that confusion may well arise when another group of meps arrives in the usa some three weeks later as , to all intents and purposes , a second european parliament delegation .
could you also ascertain whether the members concerned had a formal invitation from relevant bodies in the usa and intend to declare their visit in the members ' register of interests ?
mr gorostiaga , if you feel that you have been misquoted , you have hereby been given the opportunity to report this .
mr poettering , parliament is sovereign .
eu external action priorities ( continuation ) the next item is the continuation of the debate on the declarations of the council and the commission on eu external action priorities .
the socialist group has a need to recognise for itself that europe ' s position on the world stage has undergone a dramatic change since the fall of the berlin wall , when traditionally , foreign policy was adopted by national states which continue to play a major role , of course .
in this respect , it is essential to regard the fight against poverty as a key contribution in our policy , rather than according it a minor position within foreign policy .
mr patten , mr nielson , ladies and gentlemen , and the commissioner for external relations , you could , in fact , extract new value , new quality and effectiveness from this , working in tandem with parliament .
mr president , i welcome the resolve that was shown here today by the french presidency and the commission in placing emphasis on enlargement as the key priority for the external action of the union .
the commission is right to demand its right of association under the treaty and , through that , for this parliament to demand its right of accountability and scrutiny .
let me recall one of the results of these inquiries : in the past five years the average delay in the disbursement of committed funds has increased from three years to four-and-a-half years .
for certain programmes the backlog of outstanding commitments is equivalent to more than eight-and-a-half years of payments .
it amounts to a form of intergovernmental conspiracy against citizens ' right to know .
i want to hear from the council today what role it feels it is prepared to accord to this house in terms of the scrutiny and accountability of issues which may be intergovernmental but which cannot stand on one pillar alone ?
mr president , as the european union assumes new powers we might expect that transparency in this matter and parliamentarian monitoring would increase at the same rate .
the commission must have a strong role to play in this process .
but the council ' s decision seems to be leading to a situation now where the whole development of the security and defence policy in the political sphere can no longer be properly monitored , being , as it were , beyond that .
nevertheless , i think that , because of the expectations that are created , because of the european union ' s responsibilities and even because of the new problems facing developing countries , for all these reasons , taking account of these very important parts of the world must be a major factor in determining our actions .
in politics , we never use the word " never " .
i should like quickly to ask the president-in-office two questions .
what would be the point of having more than 40 000 officials in more than 1 500 diplomatic missions between the commission and the member states - twice the number the united states has - if our activity really is not sufficiently efficient , coherent or visible ?
mr moscovici , in the coming months we will have to make important decisions in the field of the nascent , embryonic defence policy .
the incompatibility and heterogeneity of the member states ' investments in this field - the national views - make this such a difficult debate that we will have to consider other added problems such as interinstitutional disputes .
this dispute between the institutions must be resolved , and the european parliament must not simply be serving at the table , but it also wishes to take its place in the kitchen .
in general we favour a strong european union presence on the international scene .
but in this short speech , i want to focus on enlargement .
having said that , we are conscious of the problems due to public opinion both within the fifteen member states and in the candidate countries .
the european parliament will play an important part in this .
commissioner patten , the vice-president of the commission , reacted to this in his own way and remarked that the european union is in fact extremely resourceful .
european responsibilities can certainly not be divided among fifteen to thirty or perhaps more member states .
this is not about a simple bureaucratic division of powers between institutions or a power-crazed parliament or such like .
my own experience when , in a responsible post within the un ' s development programme , i sought cooperation with the union at national level with a view to assembling and coordinating forces in different areas was that , as a rule , it did not work , either because almost every decision in the eu ' s case needed to be taken in brussels and also because of the lack of qualified staff within the area concerned .
working towards constitutionalisation of the european union , one benefit of which would be institutional citizenship in international bodies , the creation of a european diplomacy as per the galeote report , the cultural concern which we must take on board in order to avoid fresh incidents of colonialism , the support and valuing of democratic processes which have also been established in certain countries such as iran , and the regulation of relations with ngos , which could become the operational arm of the european union - these options could all contribute to an effective political initiative for developing countries , an initiative which would assert the supremacy of european civilisation in terms of a quest for solidarity to improve quality of life and bear witness to respect for human dignity , celebrating it in every corner of the world .
mr president-in-office , this morning you mentioned the report parliament has asked me to present on turkey ' s accession process .
like the commission , parliament salutes turkey ' s endeavours in drawing up a programme for developing its legal arsenal to comply more closely with the requirements of the european union , especially in terms of respect for human rights .
europe is resolute in recognising that need for identity , aware that its diversity is the source of its wealth .
that is the spirit in which the union proposes to help turkey find a solution to the kurdish problem .
i am also concerned by the extent to which many want to define european foreign policy in terms of its distinctiveness from the united states policies , sometimes even deliberate hostility to the united states positions .
the best forum for dealing with security policy issues is nato rather than the european union and the danger is that the common european security and defence policy , with its emphasis on an autonomous capability , will undermine the alliance which served us so well during more threatening times .
mr president , some of us have asked the president-in-office and commissioner patten specific questions .
financial year 2001 the next item is the submission by the council of the draft budget for the financial year 2001 .
as you know , my colleague florence parly chaired that council , but unfortunately she cannot be here today , so please accept her apologies .
first of all , i would like to pay tribute to the excellent work done by the portuguese presidency ahead of the council ' s adoption , at first reading , of the draft budget for 2001 .
this year , the provisions of the new interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 have taken full effect .
the first session under the trialogue procedure bringing together the european parliament , the council and the commission was held on 6 july , here in strasbourg , and demonstrated its usefulness in terms of better mutual understanding of our respective positions and priorities .
the conciliation meeting between the european parliament and the council , which took place on 20 july , was , i think , very positive .
in particular , it became possible to find a great many points of agreement between institutions and make good progress on potential sources of disagreement .
i hope we can continue to work in the same spirit and produce a budget for the european communities for the financial year 2001 which gives us the resources to meet the priorities and challenges the european union is about to face .
firstly , i want to set out the major guidelines which have determined the way the council has drawn up this draft budget before going into more detail - though not at length - on the various categories .
the council has also paid special attention to the development of payment appropriations , setting their increase compared with 2000 at a maximum rate of 3.5 % , which in particular takes account of the capacity for implementation and the probable rate of payments entailed by the balances to be settled .
finally , this draft budget remains totally in keeping with the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure .
those are the bases for the draft budget for the financial year 2001 , drawn up by the council on 20 july , to provide for eur 95.9 billion in commitment appropriations , an increase of 2.7 % over the budget for 2000 , and eur 92.5 billion in payment appropriations , an increase of 3.5 % over the budget for 2000 .
the council hopes to convert this priority into figures with a total appropriation 30 % higher than in 2000 .
the eur 614 million adopted by the council will ensure funding of all foreseeable needs .
i would add - and of course this is important in our discussions - that it has been possible to earmark such a significant amount without having to revise the financial perspectives aimed at strengthening category 4 , as proposed by the commission .
the council has also ensured the funding of all the european union ' s other policy priorities .
without launching into an exhaustive description of the council ' s draft budget , which is in any case the subject of the detailed explanatory statement circulated to you , i would now like to present the council ' s 2001 draft budget decisions in a rather more specific way , that is , by category of expenditure .
first , as regards category 1 of the financial perspectives relating to agricultural expenditure , the draft budget provides for an increase in commitment appropriations of 6.3 % in relation to 2000 in order to fund the cap reform agreed by the european council in berlin in march 1999 .
nevertheless , for sub-category 1a of the financial perspectives , covering cap market expenditure , the council decided on figures some eur 330 million lower in total than those proposed by the commission in its preliminary draft .
the savings made , in comparison with the commission ' s preliminary draft budget , do not prevent the council providing for an increase , which also responds to parliament ' s concerns , in two budgetary lines : for the distribution of milk to schoolchildren , which i know has been the subject of massive correspondence for more than a year now , and promotion of product quality .
for expenditure related to rural development , taking account of the delays which have built up in the approval and implementation of national rural development plans , the council felt that a margin of eur 225 million , under the ceiling of sub-category 1b of the financial perspectives , could be earmarked .
the development of these appropriations , however , shows an increase of 4.6 % compared with 2000 , an increase which reflects the priority the council accords the appropriations allocated to what now constitutes a second pillar of the cap .
however , i want to specify that the council is , of course , prepared to re-examine agricultural expenditure this autumn in the light of the content of the letter of amendment the commission will be presenting and to reconsider , at that time , developments in market and rural development expenditure .
as regards structural actions , covered by category 2 of the financial perspectives , the council has budgeted this whole category as commitment appropriations in line with the conclusions of the berlin european council of march 1999 and , in addition , it has renewed all the payment appropriations entered in 2000 .
but it hoped to increase the cohesion fund allocations by some eur 360 million over provision in the commission ' s preliminary draft , to take account of the forecasts for implementation of these credits in the member states .
on category 3 of the financial perspectives relating to the funding of internal policies , the council was primarily intent on ensuring the appropriate funding for the multiannual programmes while respecting , where applicable , the programming decided jointly with parliament .
as regards the extension of the ' employment ' initiative , agreed by parliament to strengthen the employment dynamic begun by the amsterdam european council , the conciliation meeting between the european parliament and the council held on 20 july demonstrated that this subject represents a priority for both our institutions for the 2001 budget , especially in terms of building on the conclusions of the feira european council .
however , the council is waiting for the assessment of the previous initiative soon to be delivered by the commission with a view to seeking agreement with parliament about its funding in the context of a global agreement during the second reading .
furthermore , it has identified a precautionary margin of eur 208 million more than the one in the commission ' s preliminary draft budget , the objective being to have enough room for manoeuvre over and above a necessary margin under the ceiling of category 3 to deal with the new priorities shared by the council and by parliament , such as the ' employment ' initiative i mentioned earlier .
i now come to the financing of the european union external actions covered by category 4 of the financial perspectives .
the eur 614 million adopted by the council will be enough to finance all the foreseeable needs .
this figure is based on the only evaluation of needs currently available , set out in the 1999 world bank report on rebuilding kosovo .
wishing to be pragmatic , the council is renewing but not increasing the appropriations intended for serbia , as it is not yet eligible for community assistance beyond the aid for democracy and civil society included in this envelope .
on the other hand , the council has kept to the commission ' s preliminary draft for the vast majority of the other cooperation programmes .
however i want to emphasise , as regards the meda programme , that the draft budget provides for an amount of eur 701 million which is higher than the annual average allocation over the period 1995-1999 .
the reduction of eur 150 million made by the council in comparison with what the commission is asking for , takes account of the stock of still unpaid commitments still on this programme , and that represents several years of implementation .
i take this opportunity to remind you of the council ' s determination to contribute to better management of the programme , an indispensable prior condition , in our view , to enhancing our efforts .
despite this reduction - motivated by the need to reabsorb the outstanding balance - the meda programme naturally remains very important to the council .
the french presidency ' s objective is to achieve the adoption of the new multiannual regulation for meda soon and it will in particular be listening to the european parliament on this subject .
however we have not followed up the commission ' s proposal for a revision of the financial perspectives , transferring these appropriations to category 7 , and we have kept them in category 4 .
finally , i want to express my satisfaction that agreement was reached at the conciliation meeting between the european parliament and the council on 20 july on the amount of the appropriations to be included for the cfsp , as well as the transfer of the administrative expenses for cfsp special representatives , to the council ' s budget , in accordance with the institutional agreement of 1999 .
this agreement has given rise to the drafting of two joint declarations , one of which specifies that the sums included in the council ' s budget under the heading of cfsp administrative expenses should take account of their impact on the general position for category 5 , while the other commits the council to ensuring that the estimates for administrative costs anticipated for each new cfsp decision are transmitted in good time to the other branch of the budgetary authority .
as you can appreciate , the council has therefore tried to fund the various priorities in the field of european union external actions appropriately and in doing so it has earmarked a margin of eur 184 million under the ceiling of category 4 of the financial perspectives .
in drawing up its draft budget for the administrative expenditure covered by category 5 of the financial perspectives , the council has been concerned to stabilise current expenditure , while taking account of the exceptional needs of the institutions , especially as regards staff for the anti-fraud office and the court of justice .
the council is ready to do whatever is necessary to examine this letter of amendment so that its incidence can be taken into account as from first reading by the european parliament .
to that end , there is a margin of eur 113 million under the ceiling of category 5 of the financial perspectives .
for payment appropriations , the council has adjusted the commission ' s preliminary draft budget figure downward by eur 300 million .
in line with the logic prevailing for the other categories , the council has taken maximum account of the substantial underspend of these appropriations in 2000 .
despite this reduction compared with the commission ' s preliminary draft , the pre-accession payment appropriations recorded a strong increase of 10.8 % compared with 2000 , which again reflects the importance accorded this expenditure as absolutely vital to the proper preparation of our major political aim , the enlargement , a priority shared by the council , the european parliament and the commission .
before i end , i would like to take this opportunity to say how pleased i am about the agreement reached , at the conciliation meeting between the european parliament and the council on 20 july , on a statement on financial programming .
under the terms of this joint declaration , the commission will now be obliged to evaluate the financial consequences of each of its new proposals , in particular for categories 3 and 4 of the financial perspectives .
i am sure that will be a fundamental factor in clarifying the decisions of the budgetary authority .
in any case i hope it gives you a good foundation for starting your work on the budget and that it will contribute to the establishment of a budget for 2001 which respects the priorities of each of the institutions , one which is satisfactory in terms of our joint mission , fulfilling our responsibilities towards europe and its peoples .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , ladies and gentlemen , you will shortly be adopting two regulations that are highly significant in budgetary terms , one being the regulation on budgetary discipline in the agricultural sector , and the other being the regulation on own resources , that is to say , the financing of the budget .
however , the commission takes a dim view of the outcome of the council ' s discussions on budget 2001 .
indeed , all the appropriations for kosovo have in fact been tied up already .
we find ourselves in a situation where we are competing in political terms with the dictator milosevic , and we must convince the people that the european union is willing to provide assistance .
another word on foreign policy : the budget council has cut the funding for the mediterranean programme - which is also something you mentioned - by eur 150 million .
putting these cuts into effect would no longer just be a budgetary policy measure though , it would also constitute a change in the foreign policy in this field , a renunciation of the barcelona process .
we have now submitted a letter of amendment containing two key points : firstly a request for 400 new posts for the commission with effect from the year 2001 , and secondly , budgetary measures which will enable us to do without the vast majority of technical assistance offices , as per parliament ' s request , and , in particular , that of the committee on budgets .
the commission has estimated that we need 1254 new posts for key activities and political priorities .
we can create a vast number of these 1254 new posts through reallocation , which will mean requesting a total of 717 new posts - 400 in the year 2001 and 317 in the year 2002 - particularly if we are to strengthen the areas of external assistance , health and consumer protection and environmental policy , as well as justice and internal affairs .
in addition , we have proposed a one-off early retirement scheme for 600 posts , organised in such a way as to have no impact on the budget , which would drastically reduce the need for new posts .
mr president , can i first of all thank the president-in-office for his opening remarks and especially his remarks about the good working relationship that we have had between the parliament and the council .
i thank the french presidency and the staff of the french permanent representation in brussels .
the downside starts with the things i said before we had the conciliation , during the conciliation and now after council has voted and produced its draft budget .
as far as we are concerned , the interinstitutional agreement and article 20 stipulate that once the commission had made that proposal , our two institutions were duty bound to actually discuss that proposal .
i will reiterate another thing i said : parliament is not a bit part player in this process , it has a valid role to play .
the biggest disappointment was on category 4 and especially the western balkans .
parliament has sent a special delegation to kosovo to look at its needs .
yet the council comes up with a figure of eur 614 million and if we look at the explanatory memorandum from the council that is the figure in the light of the international financial institutions ' estimates .
we have a situation where foreign ministers are saying one thing and finance ministers are saying another thing and that does not help anyone .
the ideal position for the council is to have no payments whatsoever , but you have some obligations in this matter .
the disabled games are held a month after the normal olympics , which means that they will take place in athens sometime in october or november 2004 .
whilst we have been awaiting the amending letter from the commission on its staffing needs , we see that the council has reduced the commission 's administrative expenditure by eur 25 million .
that is on top of the eur 14 million announced by the commission after publication of the pdb .
so our two institutions need to sit down and talk this through .
we need to agree on a real assessment of the commission 's needs .
if we want the commission to do the job which we are always asking it to do , then at least in the three institutions we need to be clear about what we are asking it to do and what staffing levels are required .
as to what is next , we in parliament need to make some hard decisions , not least on the letter of amendment and especially category iv .
what is contained within the notenboom procedure could actually relieve our plight next year .
if you can front-load the areas of concern this year and we can carry over into next year or at least use this year , which will lighten the burden for next year , then a lot of our problems can be eased .
i have a few comments to make on the council ' s first reading in this respect , which i have already submitted to the committee on budgets in the form of a discussion paper .
turning now to the european court of auditors .
for reasons that are beyond me , the council has cut the funding for 2001 from eur 7 million to eur 5 million .
my guiding principle for the budgetary procedure for 2001 can be summed up by the following new high german expression : value for money .
the same applies to the committee of the regions .
here too it is my goal , under the ' value for money ' maxim , to promote the overall productivity of the committee through a variety of measures .
the committee has asked for an increase in the funding required to cover the travel and subsistence costs incurred by regional representatives of candidate countries attending plenary sittings as observers .
at the same time , however , the committee of the regions has declared that it has need of more funds for the year 2001 .
to sum up : overall , we are being very sparing with the european tax payer ' s money in performing our role as part of the budgetary authority .
mr president-in-office of the council , mr president , commissioner , honourable members , as the last person to speak on this agenda item , all i can do of course is make a few points and reiterate a few things that have already been said .
but as you are all yourselves aware , repetition is the only way to learn .
i shall therefore deliver the good news first : compared with this year ' s budget , both the commission and the council - albeit only temporarily - have proposed a total reduction of eur 144 million in the budgetary lines for employment .
but parliament has already made it clear in its guidelines that the issue of job creation is very close to our hearts , and that one of our first priorities in internal policy is to fight unemployment in europe .
accordingly , not only did the council declare , in the course of the conciliation procedure , that it was willing to support our job creation initiative through suitable instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises , we have also agreed to come to an understanding , in the course of the budgetary procedure , on an amount within the meaning of number 33 of the interinstitutional agreement , which we intend to use to achieve our goal .
as parliament made clear last year , we believe it is necessary to undertake a multiannual revision of category 4 in order to meet the requirements for reconstruction aid in the balkans in a stable and secure manner .
the council has obviously made this its guiding principle , for how else are we to interpret the fact that it persists in refusing to commit the funds for the pre-accession countries cyprus and malta to chapter 7 of the pre-accession strategy ?
the council ' s declared aim was an increase in expenditure for 2001 of only 3.5 % in comparison with the figures for the current budget .
the outcome is a draft budget in which the ratio of commitments to payments is no longer sound .
well , as you know , the aids pandemic currently affects 33.6 million people , the majority of them living in developing countries .
according to unaids , 5.6 million new cases and 2.6 million deaths were notified in 1999 , including 50 % women .
the epidemic has already wiped out the achievements of thirty years of development aid in the most affected countries .
the most tragic consequences are in africa .
inequality of opportunity in terms of access to treatment , intolerable in itself , is all the more repugnant today because information circulates , and circulates fast , on this planet .
the european union has been aware since the beginning of the 1980s , of the need to give the developing countries practical assistance in the fight against hiv-aids , putting respect for the people affected , in particular the most vulnerable , at the centre of its concerns .
the international therapeutic solidarity fund has obtained encouraging initial results for the two access to medication programmes started in 1999 in ivory coast and morocco .
their effects are already apparent in the mother-child prevention programmes set up by unaids and unicef .
the united nations , its agencies and the world bank are mobilising to strengthen international therapeutic solidarity .
similarly , the recent decision to make nevirapine , an antiretroviral molecule effective in the prevention of mother-child transmission , freely available adds credibility to that agreement , because it proves that this is not just an announcement , and the pharmaceutical industry really can take practical action .
but this is just a first stage in the struggle against the aids pandemic .
international aid must be strengthened urgently in the fight against hiv-aids .
coordination of all resources at all levels remains one of the top priorities for international aid within the framework of the strategies defined at international level , in partnership with national aids programmes and other donors .
we must urgently strengthen prevention programmes , improve the research effort geared to developing countries and give all patients real access to treatment .
a japanese conference will also be held in the context of the g8 this autumn on these three diseases .
the presidency will support these initiatives to find lasting solutions to the problem of global and respectful responsibility for people suffering from the disease , by means of practical projects and partnership agreements with the countries concerned .
guaranteeing access to quality treatment , information and the necessary resources for all must be the aim of the european community .
the theme of the conference , ' breaking the silence ' , provided a framework which helped to strengthen national and international action against hiv / aids .
also welcome was information on the many small-scale condom and safe sex empowerment education programmes that have proved their worth in stemming the spread of hiv / aids .
i believe that the conference could have given more attention to the lessons of success stories as regards improving and expanding these prevention strategies because information and prevention is in fact the most important ways of fighting aids .
prevention is central to a successful long-term national , international and global response to aids .
at the same time a full spectrum of care from basic treatment of opportunistic infections to entry retroviral therapy for hiv infection can no longer be denied to the vast majority of the millions of people infected with the virus .
the commission welcomes the new initiatives being taken against hiv / aids by some countries to produce cheaper generic drugs and would like to offer its support to help such countries provide technical assistance to other developing countries to enable them to pursue such initiatives .
we recognise that the production of generic drugs could greatly improve access to care and treatment for hiv / aids .
for example , one in four zimbabweans will die from hiv / aids , including one in three in the capital , harare .
more than a million children are already orphaned by hiv / aids in zimbabwe , almost 10 % of the population .
more than half the pregnant women in some areas in botswana are infected with hiv , and a third of them transmit hiv to their new-born babies during delivery .
the conference opened up exciting new opportunities and partnerships that will enable people who are vulnerable to hiv infection to gain access to technologies and procedures to make care more affordable for hiv / aids sufferers and invest in new technologies and products to prevent and treat hiv / aids .
it is accordingly discussing innovative approaches with its developing country partners as well as with other donors .
the commission will shortly submit a communication to the council and parliament outlining proposals for accelerated action to improve access to proven key measures and commodities to develop active and effective delivery structures and systems for drugs and increase investment in research into and development of priority drugs and vaccines .
the communication points especially to the value of bringing condoms , bed nets and other preventive procedures to the poorest and most vulnerable more rapidly and on a sufficiently large scale .
the european union accounted for 55 % of global development aid in the social sectors in 1997 and has increased its support for health , aids and population programmes from 1 % of our total assistance in 1986 to over 8 % at the present time , compared to an oecd average of 5.5 % .
we are therefore focusing more and more on this field .
this is in clear contrast to the recent offer from the united states to southern africa .
the commission is holding wide-ranging consultations on options for accelerated national and international action and innovative approaches to address these diseases .
on 28 september , in collaboration with the who and un aids , it will be hosting an international round table .
the meeting will consider how a comprehensive approach at national and international level might tackle these three diseases and how we can make a difference .
madam president , i should like to express my thanks to the president of the council and commissioner nielson for the statement they gave today with regard to the huge issue of aids , especially in africa .
millions of african children are already having to go through life without parents , millions of families have broken up , millions of children and elderly people are having to manage without the support and care of an ever dwindling part of the generation in between .
the situation in many african countries does not lend itself to european solutions .
as far as treatment is concerned , i believe it is important for the pharmaceutical industry to find affordable alternatives to the medication which is of some help in our western countries , also where transmission of the illness from mother to child is concerned .
i therefore hope with all my heart that the memorandum which commissioner nielson has announced will offer us a new perspective , with more people at the european commission who are prepared to tackle this issue , with more coordination at european level and , more than anything , with more funding , because that is what is needed to help africa leave this misery behind .
madam president , in my view an important step was taken at the durban international aids conference : although prevention also remains essential for combating this plague , the issue of access to treatment was finally placed at the heart of the debate .
the g8 summit at okinawa has also made it possible to set the seal on the commitment of the rich countries and set targets to lessen the ravages of aids in africa over the next ten years , but , unfortunately , the issue of resources was not really dealt with .
this very day a meeting should be taking place in new york , under the auspices of undp , between public and private operators to sign up to and finance the aids action plan for south africa .
obviously the european union is not standing on the sidelines of this mobilisation but i think we should step up a gear , and i heard the french presidency express that hope .
we eagerly await the commission ' s communication , with guidelines and proposals for combating the major transmissible diseases : aids of course , but also malaria and tuberculosis .
i am thinking , in particular , of the debates on industrial property rights and compulsory licences .
perhaps the round table of 28 september , organised by the commission , in liaison with who and unaids could be the first stage in setting that up ?
madam president , i am not going to repeat what has already been said , and said very well , and with very laudable intentions .
unaids itself acknowledges the ineffectiveness of the programme announced by the pharmaceutical laboratories , which were only trying to improve their image , in fact , and are now withdrawing when it comes to genuine negotiation of a reduction in the price of treatment .
the issue is no longer donations of medication , necessarily limited in time and subject to the selective interests of the laboratories , but adapting treatment price to purchasing power in the developing countries .
the european union must urge the pharmaceutical multinationals to grant voluntary licences , a first step towards access to treatment for the deprived populations .
if that is not done , the european union should impose respect for the agreements in case of medical emergency , and require the granting of compulsory licences , which would finally mitigate the problem of the price of treatment .
aids lays bare all the economic and social deficiencies of developing countries and grafts itself onto the more general problem of destitution .
and , by imf dictate , poor countries are cutting public expenditure , in particular on education and health .
the european union must contribute towards the rapid cancellation of the debt of african countries , which costs them 15 billion annually , so that those resources can be allocated to establishing the health infrastructure and new social programmes .
finally , the research priority must be to perfect a vaccine .
madam president , i am speaking on behalf of the members of the bonino list .
i have taken note of the words of the council representative to the effect that france will allocate part of the african countries ' debt to the fight against aids .
it is true that we currently spend usd 300 million per year on africa , but , at the same time , africa has a debt of usd 15 billion owed to the industrialised countries .
i therefore feel that there is a need for the commission and the member states of the union to make an ad hoc intervention , in consideration of the european union 's major responsibility precisely towards developing countries .
indeed , i would argue that we should relate the cancellation of the external debt of the poor countries to the fight against the aids epidemic , and it is precisely with a view to this that we support the request of the specific programme debt for aids contained in the resolution .
the cairo eu-africa summit on debt cancellation procedures and the durban conference are , in fact , closely related .
the grievous impact of aids on economic growth and the close relationship between the fight against poverty and the fight against aids requires coordination and closer and more effective cooperation between the who , the world bank and the united nations , with the involvement of the civil society of the countries concerned , the local churches and the non-governmental organisations .
every day , children infected with this virus are born in these countries due to a complete lack of suitable programmes for mothers-to-be .
in this context , i think that the proposed reduction in the price of drugs for the victims of aids in these countries is extremely important and i should like to urge the commission and the council to support this endeavour by exerting pressure on pharmaceutical companies .
i welcome the fact that both commissioner nielson and the french presidency now regard and describe the work on combating the hiv epidemic as a main priority .
it is also important to have new kinds of cooperation with the pharmaceuticals industry so that we can produce not only vaccines , but also medicines .
there is a whole host of programmes which are crying out for money and where contributions from the eu could be of use .
i am afraid that , in five to ten years ' time , the situation will be similar and very serious in parts of asia .
i welcome commissioner nielson ' s conference on 28 september 2000 and hope that it will lead to something of a crash programme for tackling these problems still more vigorously in the future .
we are very grateful to the commission for preparing its communication which we impatiently await and which will allow us to pool our energies and unite in a determination to act .
we must act without delay because this is an emergency , and the french presidency stands ready to put that determination to act into practice at european level .
to respond to the immense challenge we face , we need to mobilise all the partners , as i said in my earlier remarks , which drew a wholly positive echo from parliament .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at12 noon .
creating a monitoring centre for industrial change the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on creating a monitoring centre for industrial change .
before talking about the arrangements themselves , i think it is useful to give a brief review of the context in which this proposal was born .
the special european council in luxembourg on 21 and 22 november 1997 tasked a high level group of experts with analysing industrial change in the european union and looking at ways of anticipating and managing change as well as its economic and social repercussions .
all of us , in our own countries , are experiencing the radicalisation of certain social conflicts reflecting despair - i do mean despair - and incomprehension before the challenges of globalisation .
in its final report to the european commission , the group of experts drew up an inventory and made recommendations .
these include the interesting proposal to the commission to create a european monitoring centre for industrial change .
this centre would be a tool to help identify and analyse change in order to anticipate its consequences and ensure positive management of those developments .
the emergence of new information and communication technologies in the organisation of relations between the great principals and their sub-contractors - i am thinking of aeronautics , the motor industry - is bringing in its wake new ways of organising work liable to alter the industrial fabric substantially and promote the arrival of new territorial systems going beyond national frameworks .
the nature and importance of the social dialogue accompanying these transformations goes hand in hand with the extent of restructuring or technological evolution .
the european monitoring centre for industrial change may respond to this problem if its tasks and structure are defined in that way .
it should also identify and disseminate positive practical solutions to be implemented at various levels and promote exchange of experience on the evolution of and adaptation to change .
these tasks should respond to the needs of the european institutions , the social partners at all levels , the national and regional institutions and business .
it must be organised so as to fulfil its missions , and in our opinion that means a light , flexible structure .
in our opinion , european social partners and the commission should naturally be involved in the management of the centre in appropriate ways .
in the view of the french presidency , that proposal for a foundation should facilitate the rapid establishment of the centre .
france will do everything possible to ensure that it can be in place before the end of this presidency .
madam president , i have not forgotten how precious time is in this institution , so i have made a point of respecting my speaking time .
after this , in response to the european council , the commission invited a high level group of experts to report on the economic and social implications of industrial change and make recommendations on ways to prevent consequences of the kind witnessed at the renault factory .
in its report the high level group recommended the creation of an observatory .
this report has been endorsed by the council .
i am convinced of the need to provide european social partners and policy makers with a tool which enables us to adopt a forward-looking approach where industrial change is discussed at european level , with a view to managing it through positive and preventive action .
we have already discussed it three times in parliament .
the commission has already proposed in the social agenda presented in 28 june 2000 to invite the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in dublin - which is an existing structure - to put in place an information mechanism for change .
this information mechanism should assist the social dialogue between employers and employees and it could support public authorities by providing information data and analysis of existing information on industrial change .
the social partners indicated their interest in this mechanism in the forum of 15 july and committed themselves to finalising their approaches and presenting their ideas on the possible structure for this mechanism .
of course we shall take their opinion into account before our final proposal .
secondly , governments and other types of public sector organisations do not have a particularly good record or an aptitude for predicting change in industry , in commerce , in business and in enterprise .
let the economy and market forces get on with it .
i am curious about the socialist emphasis on industrial change when we in the developed economies now live in a situation in which 20 % or less of the work-force is employed in conventional industry and everyone else works in the services sector in the new economy .
i too would like to welcome nicole pery back here in the chamber and perhaps i could say , nicole , that we miss you particularly when we have extremely difficult votes to transact .
i would like to say that the compromise resolution tabled by my group and others has been cut down to the bare essentials to make it absolutely clear what we are calling for , but even so there seems to be a tremendous amount of confusion over exactly what we are calling for and i would therefore like to spell out two things that we are not calling for .
first , we are not calling for the creation of a new expensive agency or institute .
this would be a centre to gather information and intelligence from all possible partners and actors , business itself , institutions of higher and further education , the employment services both public and private , the social partners from all relevant actors and again i would say to mr chichester , we are not saying here that governments should try to predict change .
as both the minister and the commissioner have said , this follows on from the gyllenhammar high level group following the vilvoorde closure by renault .
the liberal and epp resolution says that such a centre would try to interfere in the markets and in commercial decisions .
it states that both council and commission have pulled back from the decision to create such an observatory , such a centre .
the fact of the matter is , however , that i can only guarantee us one hour here .
i will communicate this problem - and you will probably do so as well - to the conference of presidents and to parliament ' s bureau , because it may occur once as an exceptional case , but when it happens more than once we must tackle the problem and find a solution to it .
a european monitoring centre for industrial change is at odds with the liberal principle that governments should not interfere in commercial decisions .
the spectre of the repairable society is on the loose once again in europe .
therefore , my group has also failed to achieve a compromise with the socialist group on the resolution before us .
europe and the european economy are doing well .
the blessings of the internal market and particularly the introduction of the euro have given employment a shot in the arm .
this is not the first time that this parliament is discussing political interference in industry and business management .
mr president , the european union is facing far-reaching changes in our economy , globalisation , the new economy , the expansion of new technology and all kinds of demographic factors as well .
secondly we need involvement , involvement in the support networks , and this is the social implication that needs to be developed .
from this perspective , the commission and council should also ensure that topics such as the right to information and consultation , revision of the law on works councils and the role of employees and citizens in mergers and business closures with their serious social consequences can be brought up for discussion sooner rather than later .
and it is always the workers who have to pay the price , never the shareholders .
it sank because there was no observation system for icebergs in those days .
in so far as such an establishment will be independent and will have appropriate resources to carry out its research , and its work is made public and can serve as a basis for democratic debate , it can make a powerful contribution to developing intergovernmental cooperation which , in this area of social policy , remains predominant . ' that is not a quotation from some irresponsible or lunatic left-winger .
my friend steven hughes has explained that the socialists and the two other political groups tabling a joint resolution do not want a bureaucratic monster .
in fact , the commission has plenty of documentation available , and eurostat can provide very interesting statistics on industrial evolution in europe and beyond .
there are the national governments and research institutes .
there must be no duplication of existing work but coordination of it and a report , at least every six months , which can be debated in the council and in the european parliament .
a year later , as a first concrete step , we are offered a monitoring centre for industrial change .
fine , but let it really serve the cause of the employees .
the two sides of industry must be associated with this initiative by means budgetary resources allocated by the european institutions .
we have also established procedures like the participation of employees in the capital , profits and results of the company , all indispensable procedures during industrial restructuring and change .
of course there is still a great deal to be done in this field , but it seems to me that if we need to improve this type of procedure , as my colleagues have said , and it is not uptight to say so - we now have bodies in europe like the foundation in dublin and the european agency for health and safety in bilbao , with which our committee on employment and social affairs cooperates , that are in a position to evaluate the consequences of these industrial changes effectively .
and we should not forget that both sides of industry also have an indispensable role to play as regards industrial change at the european and the social level .
as has been said , the european parliament has on several occasions , at times of crises , restructuring or conversion of production plant , decided by a large majority on the need for the european institutions and social dialogue partners to intervene early enough to be able to find all the possible solutions in order to avert avoidable serious social conflict and prevent the deindustrialisation of entire territories and the triggering-off of processes of serious social exclusion .
what parliament was complaining of was the lack of information which would have made it possible to analyse these processes in due time and , more generally , to examine the changes taking place in production and employment in these firms before such an analysis lost its value due to the precipitous adoption of irreversible decisions .
i feel that the creation of a monitoring centre - a centre coordinating all the information useful for predicting restructuring and conversion processes - could be a valuable service for the community institutions and facilitate social dialogue at european level .
therefore , i call upon all those members who voted on the resolutions on the restructuring processes , from verwoord onwards , and especially those who voted on the michelin affair in a resolution which explicitly provided for the establishment of a monitoring centre for industrial change , to show consistency on this occasion .
mr president , with a tool such as this , it will , indeed , be possible not only to inform the workers concerned in advance and to explore the possibilities of averting or reducing redundancies - as stipulated by the community directive of 24 june 1992 - but also to facilitate at local and community level dialogue which would make it possible to ascertain the existence of alternative solutions to those put forward by the companies .
she wants to keep loss-making industries on life-support systems when we should be releasing the resources of labour and capital so that they can work in viable new enterprises .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday at noon .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0535 / 2000 ) .
according to the rules of procedure , for supplementary questions - which are not obligatory - you have 1 minute , but there is a parliament recommendation that only 30 seconds be used .
the european union regrets that the united states has not yet ratified the united nations convention on the rights of the child .
our representatives have been urging the united states to ratify it in bilateral contacts .
the european union often raises human rights issues in the context of its political dialogue with the united states and the council takes note of the case raised by the honourable member .
although the success of the event depends in large measure on the commitment of the international community as a whole , the council recognises that the european union can and must play a major role in the preparations , a role encouraged during informal contacts held with representatives of unicef .
mr president , i really must thank mr moscovici for the quality and content of his reply and for the fact that the european union feels that the international conventions of the united nations organisation , such as the united nations convention on the rights of the child , should be ratified .
because , if i am not mistaken , the united states have ratified the new international labour organisation convention on child labour but the convention is not being applied .
that is why we want to start having a much more determined political dialogue with the united states on this issue and press for ratification of the convention on the rights of the child by the united states .
question no 3 by ( h-0627 / 00 ) : subject : involvement of labour and management in various member states there is no dialogue of substance or effective cooperation between government bodies and representatives of labour and management on employment-related issues or , in a broader context , efforts to modernise the european social model .
on the latter aspect , both sides of industry participate , with the council and commission , in the work of the standing committee on employment with a view to facilitating coordination of employment policies in the member states by harmonising them with community objectives .
our social partners are also associated with the work of the committee on employment , consultation of both sides of industry in this context being informal .
as regards the efforts to strengthen the european strategy for jobs , when the employment guidelines are revised in 2001 , both sides of industry , including those at national level , will be invited to play a more important role in their definition , and in implementing and evaluating the guidelines which fall within their scope .
as regards the modernisation of the european social model , both sides of industry will be associated with the work of the new committee on social protection , just as they are already associated with the work of the old committee on employment and the labour market and its successor , the committee on employment .
following the conclusions of the lisbon european council , the fifteen are due to adopt a european social policy agenda at the nice european council in december 2000 .
that is an important priority for the french presidency .
the working document for that agenda is a communication from the commission adopted on 28 june .
we are currently succeeding in reconciling the problems of economic coordination , the major objectives of economic policy , the problems of coordination in social terms , the guidelines for employment and the various methods , and the various bodies working on it .
mr president , the social partnership should be a forward-looking partnership .
as you know , three experts were designated by the president of the european court of human rights on 12 july in order to check specifically whether the austrian government had contravened common european values since taking office on 4 february , and also to look into the decidedly unique political character of the austrian freedom party .
i have listened to the french presidency ' s answer with a great deal of interest .
the fact remains that i am speaking right now , let me repeat , on behalf of the presidency of the council of the european union , and that those measures are not measures undertaken within the context of the european institutions but rather a set of bilateral measures undertaken by 14 member states with regard to the fifteenth .
it is therefore possible to estimate that the percentage of young people in education at 16 is approximately 90 % and at 18 approximately 60 % .
in fact , i have consulted the statistics and i have consulted the information provided by the european foundation for education , and i am surprised by the rosy picture they paint of the situation in the countries of the east .
let me repeat to the honourable member that i have available a table which , in effect , shows that what i have said includes the disparities .
i can give you this summary table if you wish , mrs gutierrez-cortines .
this is what we wish to do for the european union .
it must be considered , however , that if this is made a requirement within the european union , then this is the requirement within the body to which the candidate countries wish and are going to accede .
the question of whether it should be an approach like that used for the internal market or like that in use for the schengen countries can be posed at a later date .
question no 6 by ( h-0605 / 00 ) : subject : negotiating mandate covering the agricultural section of the free trade agreement with the maghreb the commission has submitted its proposal for a negotiating mandate for the free trade agreement with morocco , tunisia and israel to the council ' s ' maghreb ' working party .
these agreements include a periodic review clause for agriculture , according to which the parties undertake to plan for the increased liberalisation of their agricultural trade , with this process complementing the gradual dismantling of the tariff system in preparation for the setting up of the industrial free trade area due in 2010 .
the morocco , tunisia and israel association agreements make provision for examination of the agricultural trade situation , as of 1 january 2000 , with a view to the establishment of gradual liberalisation measures , beginning on 1 january 2001 .
on 20 july 2000 , the council approved the commission ' s negotiating mandate , which comprises general guidelines .
the mandate therefore authorises the community negotiator , if necessary , to grant the mediterranean partners tariff preferences for new products or to improve existing concessions , while , however , taking the vulnerability of certain products and the mechanisms of the common agricultural policy into consideration .
in this respect , it specifies that the commission is , in collaboration with the member states , to carry out an assessment of the potential impact of the concessions on the economic and commercial interests of the european union , and obviously the council will not take a decision until it has consulted the results of this assessment .
at the moment there are agricultural sectors in the mediterranean and also in the outermost regions of the community , which could be threatened as a result of the very generous proposed concessions by the commission .
this common position was sent to the european parliament for second reading at the july 2000 part-session .
the commission will present its proposal on the implementation of a single financial framework at a later date .
what i do recall is the european council in helsinki , as i took part in this discussion there , having just a short time before been on a brief diplomatic mission to turkey and greece , and the helsinki conclusions are the ones which are binding upon us and upon everyone .
in order for turkey to become a member of the european union , it must respect its values and therefore make the necessary efforts .
at the same time , we must greet its efforts positively .
moreover , i should point out that agricultural subsidies are among the subjects dealt with in the wto negotiations which commenced in june 2000 .
the implementation of the reduction commitments agreed at the time of the 1994 marrakech accord is also scheduled for examination in the course of these negotiations , which are based on the principles outlined in article 20 of the agreement on agriculture .
i wish to raise the question with the president-in-office of the change in american policy since we in the european union changed the whole direction of the support we give to agriculture following the last round of gatt negotiations .
at the same time the european union , in pursuit of its policies which were forced on us by the clearance group and the united states , has reduced its share of world markets in the dairy sector , in the cereal sector and in the meat sector .
question no 9 by ( h-0616 / 00 ) : subject : change to the unanimity required for cultural issues in view of the intergovernmental conference europe ' s common cultural heritage , alongside the development of the member states ' cultures and respect for diversity , has been considered an important aspect of european integration and has been incorporated into the eu treaties , in article 151 .
this article specifically provides for the encouragement of cooperation between member states , in order to support and supplement actions in various particularly vulnerable areas .
in this context , article 151 is one of the provisions likely to be converted to the rule of qualified majority voting .
minister , everyone who knows that we urgently need a cultural policy in the european union also knows - and i agree with you - that the intergovernmental conference represents a huge chance to change the unanimity rule .
the more economic policies progress , the more we need to study their cultural impact and develop a structural cultural policy .
let me abandon my official role for a second to say that we would like to see qualified majority voting become the general rule and unanimous voting the exception , rather than the opposite , which is the case at present .
this is the spirit in which the council will declare its opinion on the legislative proposals put forward by the commission , when the time comes .
moreover , the european union ' s ministers for agriculture , whose informal six-monthly meeting has been held from saturday until today in biarritz , have just stressed their determination , now more clearly than in the past , to focus in agricultural policies on boosting product quality and diversity .
the impact of enlargement on the budget was the subject of intense discussion at the european council in berlin in march 1999 when the financial perspectives for 2000-2006 were drawn up .
for each year in this period , and for each heading , the financial perspectives give the expenditure totals as commitment appropriations , and the commitment appropriations laid down under the various headings of the financial perspectives are not interchangeable .
there is hence no question of enlargement-related expenditure being funded at the expense of agricultural expenditure under heading 1 of the financial perspectives .
question no 11 by ( h-0619 / 00 ) : subject : attack on greek minority in the village of dervitsani in albania the greek inhabitants of dervitsani , a village in albania , passed the night of 3 to 4 july 2000 in shelters after being attacked by anti-tank missiles from the neighbouring village of lazarati .
the previous week the council of europe had recommended that the albanian government take measures to protect the minorities living in albania .
the european union supports the efforts of the albanian government to restructure and modernise its police forces in order to increase the security of albanian citizens and of the region .
the multinational advisory police element in albania , formed under the authority of the weu council and deployed in albania since 1997 , has widened and developed the scope of its mission following the adoption , in march 1998 , of a joint action on the european union ' s contribution to re-establishing a viable police force in albania .
following the adoption of the action programme for albania and the neighbouring region , the council is currently examining the proposed measures in order to identify those which can be implemented speedily .
the action programme is basically devoted to matters relating to problems of migration and asylum .
the proposed measures do , however , include projects in the field of human rights and the protection of minorities .
the european union is , moreover , already active in these fields .
since albania is eligible for an association and stabilisation agreement , its performance in terms of respect for democratic principles and human and minority rights and in terms of public order and the rule of law , are closely monitored by the european union , i can assure you .
however , the purpose of my question was to draw attention once again to the huge problems in the balkans , problems caused by economic and social deprivation and , more importantly , the fact that there is no democratic infrastructure .
this is a general problem which must be dealt with as such .
nonetheless , the suggested actions do include projects or programmes seeking to step up democracy and respect for human rights and minority rights in general .
the council working groups are currently proceeding to examine the various measures proposed in order to identify which of them could be implemented in the near future .
question no 12 by ( h-0622 / 00 ) : subject : reduction of tacis aid to russia the european union has punished russia for its military action in chechnya by reducing aid paid under the tacis programme .
the relevant management committee is scheduled to examine these proposals on 17 october this year .
a second tranche will be allocated to aid in support of the reform process initiated by the russian authorities recently in order to establish a genuine rule of law , which will bring the tacis appropriations allocated to russia in 2000 to eur 92 million at the most .
the only answer i can give you regarding the budget released in 2001 is that it will depend on the decisions the council is induced to make at a later stage in the light of development of the situation in russia .
this situation will be assessed in relation to the criteria for the progress to be achieved in terms of institutional reforms , democratisation , the strengthening of civil society and human rights protection throughout the territory of russia .
however , unfortunate events such as those which took place on 22 june , caused by a small number of people , must not become the general rule .
it is therefore important to adopt measures which will prevent , in all events , their repetition and that the sanction adopted by the competent parties shall serve as an example .
mr president , mr moscovici , very serious attacks have also taken place in finland on one certain means of livelihood , namely fur farming .
the situation you mention may share some of the features of the previous situation , but it is not the result of the same regulation , which is to do with fisheries issues .
i am not going to respond ad hoc to a question on such a difficult subject .
question no 14 by ( h-0625 / 00 ) : subject : public council meetings one of the three goals of the french presidency is to bring europe closer to its citizens .
moreover , rule 8 of the council 's rules of procedure provides for the organisation of public debates .
one of the top priorities of the french presidency was , therefore , to draw up a list of public debates , covering a wide range of subjects , which was adopted by the permanent representatives committee ( coreper ) on 5 july 2000 .
two debates were held in july , a debate on the presentation of the presidency ' s programme at the general affairs council on 10 july 2000 , and a second debate on the presidency programme at the ecofin council on 17 july .
on 9 november 2000 , there will be a public debate on young people and europe as part of the education and youth council .
finally , on 20 november 2000 , there will be a debate on food safety as part of the agriculture council .
over 3000 detailed reports of the public debates have been delivered by post .
in addition , television channels have the opportunity to broadcast these debates , in total or in part , via the ' europe by satellite ' channel .
finally , the french presidency strives to make as much information as possible on all council proceedings available to the public on its internet website , as well as subject indexes for the main topics under discussion .
the curious situation in the council of ministers is that the public only has access to certain debates .
i should just like to remind the honourable member of the different roles of the various institutions of the european union .
i am fortunate enough to be a member of the cabinet in the government of my country .
it is because of this concept of the separation of powers that debates are designated as either open or closed .
since the time allotted to questions to the council has elapsed , question nos 15 to 40 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , the council common position whose aim you have just stated has been referred back to parliament for a second reading , not because of its content , but because of its form .
with regard to content , parliament has agreed to commit eur 135 million over the next five years to measures aiming to compensate turkey for the sacrifices it has agreed to make in order to enter into a customs union with the european union , and on this point there is no divergence with the council .
with regard to form , we wanted to specify a number of areas in which the corresponding measures should be agreed as a priority , and the council did not want to accept three of our proposals regarding the wording of a precautionary principle on the development of nuclear energy , in particular in earthquake zones .
the protection and recognition of the cultural identity of minorities and support for measures seeking to abolish capital punishment and , finally , perhaps most importantly , the development of any form of cooperation seeking to resolve the kurdish problem .
i say that these matters of form are not trivial in a debate that precedes the one which is due to take place on accession in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy in october , and following which , in november , i shall have to present the report on the state of progress of the work and any changes in attitudes within the european union and turkey .
i think i can say that there is a broad consensus for granting turkey a privileged position for geographical , historical , economic and political reasons , but i would also say that this privileged position can and must be envisaged within the european union itself just as much as in close cooperation with the union .
i understand that this was probably your opinion , commissioner verheugen , and i think i can guarantee you the support of a large majority of my colleagues in this area .
the decision on turkey ' s accession is too important for the future of the european union and turkey for it to be made in veiled silence , or even in secrecy , behind closed doors .
as rapporteur on enlargement , i was convinced of this , not only by the richness and passion of the debates that have already taken place in parliament , but also by observing the reactions in turkey itself , both in government circles and in civil society .
i shall come back to these contrasting reactions in detail when i present my report .
the people of turkey consider that entry into the european union will require not only a painless revision of their legal arsenal and the partial loss of their sovereignty , to which they remain attached , but also a radical change in their habits and mentality , for which they do not seem prepared .
i shall repeat this proposal in my report and i think i can say that the turkish government is not hostile to this , but quite the opposite , it would seem .
there is a kurdish problem in turkey .
the council must not forbid the european parliament to propose its contribution to the solution .
if the text of this regulation is referred back for a second reading , it is not purely for a matter of form , but because parliament refuses to accept this kind of political sleight of hand .
i am able to support him on behalf of my group , and i believe it must be possible to reach an agreement with the council .
we are keen to use this instrument to promote economic and social development in turkey .
naturally , we hope that , parallel to this - and perhaps even as a result of it - political development in turkey towards democracy and respect for human rights , in particular respect for its own kurdish population , will also be strengthened , and the death penalty abolished .
mr president , our relations with turkey should promote democracy , stability and consistency .
the path to those goals is partly by way of social and economic development , and the way to social and economic development is partly by means of foreign investment .
the union ' s finance package will be an incentive to further investment in turkey and , in the process , will also promote and consolidate democracy and human rights .
mr president , on behalf of my group , i should like to thank the rapporteur for his recommendation for second reading .
it is no secret that turkey cannot be democratic in our sense of the word until such time as the economic and social problems there have been solved .
it is also widely appreciated that turkey will not be able to get on top of these problems alone and without our aid .
mr president , just nine months - or perhaps i should say already nine months - have passed since the helsinki resolution granting turkey candidate status .
so do you want to use this money as bait so that you can penetrate the turkish economy even further , so that you can plunder the turkish people ' s wealth even more ?
the strange nature of relations between the european union and turkey , which we have experienced for many years , from the beginning and throughout , is due to the political problem which we call turkey .
and i think that the main issue is precisely this process and this road .
from this viewpoint , the morillon proposal is an encouraging prospect .
the report now proposes adding three points to the draft regulation .
a special importance attaches to this draft regulation for it constitutes the last of the three pillars of financial aid for turkey , the others being the measures in favour of turkey in the framework of the meda programme and the regulation issued by the council in april .
improvements in relations between the union and turkey following the european council , meeting in helsinki , have enabled us to speak openly and frankly with each other on all issues .
the strengthened political dialogue at all levels characteristic of the climate following helsinki has made a decisive contribution to this state of affairs .
the report contains a host of proposed reforms for improving the human rights situation .
i also expressly insisted upon this in the course of the discussions in turkey .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
there are risks - as there always are when innovation bursts forth - but the transition to digital technology will bring with it huge opportunities for pluralism and massive production possibilities for the system .
the community therefore has to keep up with progress and endeavour to ensure that digital technology fulfils its potential as an opportunity for culture , pluralism , cultural and linguistic diversity and for the european economy and technical innovation and research in europe .
we consider that the instruments which have already been defined in the commission 's text will make it possible to achieve these goals .
however , the debate generated in parliament , which has looked at different points of view and has pulled out all the stops , as did the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport , in order to find a common point of agreement with the result that the report was adopted unanimously , proposes a limited number of nevertheless important supplements .
firstly : the need for a rapid revision of the legal instruments governing the sector , in particular the " television without frontiers " directive which has been in need of revision for a long time .
secondly : in order to avert the risk of dependency of our cultural industry in the event of expansion , of growth of the number of channels , we would like to introduce the possibility of production investment in the audiovisual sector .
the free movement of information and freedom of expression serve now to safeguard rights and freedoms and will always do so .
the citizens ' confidence in the audiovisual service must be won through compliance with the principles of the protection of human dignity and of minors .
technology and content cannot be governed by the same legislation : technology must be neutral and content must be regulated .
the audiovisual sector basically faces the task of having to develop in two main fields .
thirdly , television in europe .
we therefore say a clear yes to the protocol of the treaty of amsterdam on public service broadcasting and to the member states ' responsibility for commissioning and for securing finance .
however , i want to confine my remarks this evening to public service broadcasting in the digital age because there are some very important public access issues that we need to address when defining the principles from the crossover in our current media to the development of digital broadcasting .
defining the values and principles underlying public broadcasting gives us some difficulties anyway , as member states , corporations , and broadcasters all have very different ideas of what public broadcasting constitutes .
however , this should not prevent us from defining it in the digital age , because these principles are very important to us all , and , as infrastructure has developed , so content is going to develop as well .
overcoming that divide , to my mind , should be one of the key points that we emphasise in this report .
secondly , we are a democratic society , and digital policy in the audiovisual sector can connect our local citizens to our citizens at the centres of power .
in terms of cultural richness and diversity , it is important both that we should have individual centres of cultural excellence and that we be bound as a european continent .
mr president , commissioner , the airwaves are buzzing .
you cannot open a newspaper or put the radio or television on without being confronted by new developments in the it or digitalisation sectors .
as the rapporteur rightly points out , the av sector is an extremely important sector in terms of employment , but also in terms of freedom of expression , democracy and cultural diversity in europe .
complementary measures and cooperation with the business community , and fiscal measures , these are the key words of a more effective policy intended to increase the financial resources and to improve the marketing and distribution .
on a final note : we attach a great deal of importance to the freedom of the user and therefore the same applies to parents .
the effect of the " television without frontiers " directive has been that a large percentage of national works are still broadcast in each country , without managing to have these works circulated between countries .
in this context , we agree that the cultural diversity that is advocated today is not a simple addition of the respective identities of each member state , but the exchange and circulation of these identities .
the issue of the work ' s content concerns us all .
one of the goals of the public service , however , is the general interest , and for this reason it must be valued .
public television channels are developing autonomously in each member state , pursuant to protocol 32 of the treaty of amsterdam , but they are agreed on taking on similar tasks , such as information , innovation , room for exchange and integration etc .
moreover , we must not be intimidated but take pride in the entire audiovisual sector in the digital age as a great vehicle of freedom , information and movement of ideas .
mr president , commissioner , mr veltroni , on behalf of the italian radicals , i cannot support the positive view you have expressed of the report under discussion on the communication from the commission on the guidelines for the community 's audiovisual policy in the digital age .
i cannot support your view because the communication is a reproduction of the old european tv and cinema cliche : direct public intervention through state agencies , welfarism and disregard for the nature of the market , a cliche which is characterising the audiovisual sector more and more .
all this has been dredged up and ' modernised ' to suit the new digital age of multimedia convergence and the extraordinary spread of the internet .
moving on to some specific points of the report under consideration .
with regard to intellectual property and copyright - another point covered by the report - i feel that it is pointless and damaging to the positive development of the internet to strengthen the directive on copyright , as it is proposed to do .
remember the napster and the new tell cases .
lastly , on the subject of the privatisation of television , we call for a revision of the amsterdam protocol which is referred to here as if it is set in stone .
the financial times has raised the issue of the privatisation of the jewel of european public television , the bbc .
it is clear that a great effort has been made to introduce new issues and to take new steps in european audiovisual policy .
however , i believe that we still have a lot to do on certain points , both in the commission and in parliament .
we are very much lagging behind in relation to the huge changes taking place in the audiovisual sector , particularly as a result of digitalisation .
we all know that digitalisation began about five years ago and therefore this work on audiovisual policy is timely to say the least .
there are five points i would like to highlight because i believe that sooner or later they will have to be reviewed : first is the definition of public service .
this is important if we want to have a public service in europe in an environment which is truly competitive - and this can be seen from the audience for public services - and also for the good of the private audiovisual service .
the fourth point refers to the transfer from analogue tv to digital tv and its consequences for users in terms of the use and acquisition of new terminals .
the audiovisual policy should tackle these points and also go into more depth in the field of competition .
the commission ' s initiative in this is also very welcome , as is the clarification of roles in respect of the information society and the main areas of culture .
amid this technological revolution it is vital to bear in mind the social and cultural importance of media communications .
in that connection we must honour the additional protocol of the treaty of amsterdam , according to which member states decide how to organise public service finances .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are talking about the " television without frontiers " directive .
those of us who are interested in defining public service on a national basis must be watchful .
not all languages are in fact equal in the eu in this respect .
as far as we are concerned , the problem is not whether information will be controlled by american or european monopolies .
the real problem is that the people need to develop their resistance and enforce their right to fundamental information .
that is why i am calling for a digital europe initiative with clear plans for the harmonised introduction of digital television and the digitalisation of content .
thirdly , audiovisual policy concerns infrastructure and content .
mr president , the document presented by the commission in relation to its policy in the audiovisual sector in the digital era includes , amongst other things , two ideas which i consider to be fundamental .
firstly , we must safeguard the future of the dual system of public and private television , and it is essential that european public operators can make full use of the possibilities offered by the new information technologies .
secondly , cultural and linguistic diversity is a fundamental objective of community policy in the audiovisual sector .
to this end , i wish to propose that the commission , in its action and aid , prioritise positive discrimination in favour of the audiovisual sectors of the regional and minority cultures and languages of the european union .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , a glance at german cable television , where some 30 channels are now already jostling for attention , is enough to show that multiplicity is not the same thing as diversity .
mr o 'toole is right in saying that simulcasts would not make it possible to attract a group of substantial users and he therefore believes that a trial period for new audiovisual products on channels made available through digital transmission , possibly only over sections of territory , will enable operators and users to achieve the same objective .
the commission is right to say that the system of funding adopted by the member states must comply with the principle of proportionality and must not influence market conditions and competition in the community in a way contrary to the interests of society .
as you know , the council also supported the commission 's approach in the conclusions approved at its meeting of 16 may this year , which makes for pleasing unanimity .
in particular , the commission welcomes parliament 's support on the regulatory principle described in the communication .
the commission takes note of parliament 's comments on this directive and will take due account of them in carrying out the examination planned for the end of 2002 .
it only said that it would carry out a study of this technology in order to verify whether or not a revision was necessary .
the commission also agrees with parliament that the principle of a clear demarcation between editorial content and advertising should be maintained in all forms of media .
with regard to the comments on the draft report concerning the pluralism of the media , it should be noted here that digital technology and in particular the internet presents unprecedented possibilities for creating and developing a pluralist society .
for example , digital technology allows for a colossal increase in the number of channels , thereby reducing barriers to access for content producers .
the internet also , at least potentially , allows each citizen to become a content producer themselves and creates the opportunity for a world-wide forum in which anyone can take part , with the advantages and dangers that that implies .
the obstacles to pluralism in the digital world include poverty and a lack of education and training .
this is something that is very dear to me , and also to jacques lang with whom i have already discussed the possibility of developing this approach .
nonetheless , other measures could , obviously , also be adopted , in the light of experience of the digital age and in response to parliament 's questions , the commission will carry out consultations on these issues during its examination of the " television without frontiers " directive .
the digital revolution will open up many new ways of exploiting audiovisual works : video on demand via the internet , for example .
progress has already been made , however , in the past ten years .
at the same time , with regard to cinema , we can see a significant increase in the number of european successes .
so we must not stop , ladies and gentlemen , and i know that i have your support in this , but i need money to be able to carry out the new media plus programme .
this is the great danger that will affect the final decision on this project .
i hope that in the interests of european cinema in all our member states , we will obtain good results in this area at the forthcoming ' culture ' councils .
i would also like to draw the attention of those who are not here now but who have expressed criticism , saying that media and media plus only work at european level in addition to national systems that invest in production .
it is not , therefore , redundant , it is not something superfluous , but something that is absolutely necessary if we want our european films to circulate beyond the borders of their country of production .
furthermore , this communication could also assess the need for intervention in this field at community level and the opportunity to develop financial engineering mechanisms in favour of cinematographic productions .
but it must be clearly understood that we fully recognise the importance of public financing for audiovisual production and the need to provide for specific treatment in this area .
i would like to emphasise this last statement , as it is of primary importance for our whole political future .
now , you all know that public service broadcasting is a very sensitive and highly complex issue , and the commission has clearly explained its position many times , in particular in this communication .
the commission does not intervene in this area and the text on transparency is clear on this point .
by virtue of the treaty , nonetheless , the commission has a duty to ensure that the financing system does not affect trading conditions and competition in the community to the detriment of the common good .
for the commission to be able to do its job and in order to assess whether the advantages granted to the businesses in question correspond to the public service goals which are their responsibility , these goals must be defined by the member state and their financing must be transparent .
any commercial activity practised by these businesses must not , directly or indirectly , benefit from funds intended for public service .
certain ministers considered that a new additional stage of the amsterdam protocol was necessary , given the rapid technological development in this sector , and i have stated my readiness to discuss this issue with you and with those ministers in the near future .
therefore , the public services defined by the state , with public financing clearly contained in the definition of public service , are not affected by the directive on transparency .
guaranteed access for citizens to certain broadcasting services and certain types of content is a question of defining the public service broadcasting mandate and , in accordance with the amsterdam protocol , is therefore the responsibility of the member states .
it should be noted that , within the framework of the current directive , a contact committee has been created to examine all aspects of audiovisual policy linked to the directive .
the commission has clarified its position many times .
it should retain its freedom , acquired during the uruguay round , to draw up and implement financial and regulatory provisions in the audiovisual sector with a view in particular to safeguarding cultural diversity .
in its conclusions of 26 october 1999 , the council gave the commission to undertake the forthcoming negotiations on services and i can frankly assure you that my colleague , commissioner lamy , is in full agreement with this direction .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
i , as a british conservative , often find fault - and it is very easy to find fault - with many of the programmes organised and paid for by the european commission and the european union .
certainly of the people who took an erasmus course in 1998 and bothered to reply to the questionnaire 98 % found that the programme was extremely positive or at least very positive .
fortunately two or three members ( and the commission as well ) did read them .
one helps with a bit of punctuation , a bit of grammar on the particular passage in point 4 , the second in point 6 .
on the subject of the erasmus programme , which is , after all , a part of the socrates programme , i should like to say that - given the need not only to set up the programme but also to evaluate it - it is quite important to examine the efficiency of what is being offered and to carry out an assessment of the resources , if new knowledge is to be obtained and , above all , the defects in the programme removed .
the report has shown that the reasons for this are both structural and cultural , as well as economic to quite a significant degree .
so , you see , these programmes also achieve the unanimity of the whole population and naturally , they can always be improved .
this year , 110 000 students are receiving the special attention that we give to all aspects of their erasmus trip and to the smooth running of this section of the socrates programme , and we thank parliament for supporting this measure .
it is often said that only the children of fairly comfortably off families can travel as the others cannot live on this modest grant .
if we consult our statistics , however , 4 out of 5 erasmus students were the first members of their family to study abroad , which does illustrate the role that this programme plays in the opportunities for mobility available in europe to students of new social backgrounds .
furthermore , even if the latter have more to live on because they receive additional help from their parents on top of their grant , in other respects it seems that these financial difficulties are the only criticism made .
i think that in future , i will once again have to request the help of all the national and regional authorities in this area .
i hope that the discussion on ' mobility ' that the french presidency wanted will get this situation moving and that goodwill will be sought both at a private level and at regional , european and national levels so that the great success of erasmus will encompass a growing number of students .
this is the price to pay for creating europe , since students who have got to know another country within the framework of erasmus , who have made friends in another country , at another university , are the true europeans who will make european policy tomorrow .
a greater number of happy erasmus students is in the interests of our society as a whole .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
however , at the end of the day , they are two important agreements which will add to the already significant network of international fisheries agreements between the european union and third countries , the basic pillar of the common fisheries policy , since it is essential to cover our supply requirements , both for the european consumer and for our industry , and it is also essential to do so by means of our own fleet .
the fisheries agreements with third countries therefore fulfil a crucial objective of the common fisheries policy , and they also contribute to employment and , in most cases , in european regions which are very dependent on this activity .
notable in both cases is the constant and worrying increase in the payments by shipowners while , curiously , these are not included in other agreements , as is notoriously the case with the agreement with greenland .
for example , in the case of mauritius , there is an increase in the amount that shipowners are to pay for licences , of eur 5 per tonne of fish , that is to say , they are increased from eur 20 to eur 25 , and there is also an equivalent increase in the case of catches by ship .
the european union ' s contribution is reduced by 29 % , payable by shipowners which , in the case of complete exploitation of the fishing allowances , would mean a contribution of 23.5 % of the total cost .
in this context we also wish to highlight the imbalances in the internal distribution of these fishing allowances by the european commission amongst the member states , as was the case with cephalopods in the agreement with guinea .
both agreements give significant support to the local authorities for the conservation of their own fishing resources and furthermore advocate agreements between states as opposed to private agreements - which is very important in agreements such as the one with morocco , which we are trying to negotiate - as well as the contribution of the european union to the establishment of modern control systems , which forms part of the conservationist position of the european union in all of the world ' s seas , in accordance with its internal approach to its own community waters .
on the other hand , there is an important direct relationship between the financial compensation and the objectives and cooperation actions that have been agreed .
the committee on fisheries has voted in favour of these agreements , and this has become the norm , since it considers that they are both highly beneficial to both parties , that is to say , the european union and the third countries .
the rapporteur is against this amendment , since , if only those who benefit directly from community policies are to pay for them , that would quite simply be a way of breaking up the single market and dismantling the european union itself .
we are therefore in favour of both fisheries agreements , which we hope may continue in the future , and we are anxious , commissioner , to be able soon to hold a debate in our fisheries committee , and to repeat what we are saying now , in relation to the extremely important fisheries agreement with morocco .
mr president , commissioner , in principle i approve the new protocols to the fisheries agreements with mauritius and guinea .
the commission and the rapporteur have done some good work .
yet , in the committee on fisheries , we are repeatedly confronted by the issue of whether the price paid by the european union to third countries for its fishing rights is not too high .
mr president , the socialist group supports the proposal for a council regulation on the european community fisheries agreements with mauritius and the republic of guinea .
both agreements fall within a general european community policy based on our presence in the rest of the world .
the fishing sector forms part of the community ' s economy and , in order for the community fleet to be able to fish and carry out its activity , the community must reach agreements with third countries and international organisations , so that our fishermen can enjoy adequate fishing allowances .
in the case of guinea we have had an agreement since 1983 and in the case of mauritius since 1989 .
there can be no doubt about the cost-effectiveness of these agreements for the european union , as demonstrated in the study commissioned by the commission on their cost-benefit relationships .
nor can we doubt the beneficial effects for the other contracting parties , in this case mauritius and the republic of guinea .
these are agreements which benefit both parties and which have been amended over time , being adapted to the demands of the sustainable exploitation of resources and of actions supporting the efforts of the authorities in the third countries to develop their own fishing sector .
therefore , the contrast with other agreements - i would like to highlight , for example , the agreement with greenland , in which the shipowners do not contribute to its cost - is the all the more drastic .
in the case of mauritius , it also reduces the volume of authorised catches and specifies the number of vessels authorised to fish .
the approval by the european parliament of these two fisheries agreements sends a political message demonstrating our support for the signing and renewal of other fisheries agreements which are of much greater importance for our sector because of the number of ships and fishermen which depend on them .
i am referring in particular to the agreement with morocco .
it now falls to the european commission to negotiate hard in order to reach a reasonable agreement with morocco .
in principle , those of us in the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party support the eu ' s having fisheries agreements with third countries , but i should also like to point out that what we in the liberal group want - and this is why we have tabled a number of amendments - is for the fishermen or ship owners to make more of a contribution to financing the fisheries agreements .
the fisheries agreements are extremely important for certain regions in which , in addition to employment in the fisheries sector itself , there are a range of associated businesses wholly or partially dependent upon the fishing industry .
by means of the fisheries agreements , the eu is able to develop its activities in this sphere and exchange fishing rights with third countries .
the effect of the eu fleets upon fishing resources - in terms of structural policy and the financial situation - ought to be analysed much more than it is at present .
i want to conclude by asking the commission to provide the committee on fisheries with a report on what for third countries are the positive and negative consequences of the eu ' s fisheries agreements .
all the evidence shows that agreements between the eu and third world countries have been conservation disasters .
not only will i vote against these proposals , but i shall urge my government to oppose them .
we see from this that , apart from the importance of fisheries agreements for the european union , they can also be used as instruments for development in these countries .
as a portuguese citizen , i am bound to regret the fact in this context that the commission and the council are so far behind in their negotiations on the agreement with morocco .
it is nevertheless important that the requirements of supervision and control , as well as the programmes designed to control the reduction of the fishing effort are also imposed on the other countries that fish in the waters of these developing countries and not only on the member states of the european union .
private contracts between european shipowners and the guinean government are often concluded without this form of assistance from the local fishing industry , and contribute to over-fishing due to a lack of controls .
these trawlers will fish in the coastal zone , where they are a direct threat to local fishermen .
all member state ships should respect an economic twelve-mile exclusion zone .
the agreement takes more account of the developing countries themselves , in this case guinea and mauritius , than was formerly the case .
mr president , it seems that the commission is happy to ignore the requests of the council and this parliament - the former clearly expressed at the council of ministers of october 1997 - and delay the work on the guidelines for the negotiation of the fisheries agreements .
the protocol with guinea-conakry is a good example .
furthermore , the commission has been prepared to ignore the principle of relative stability by casually removing from the community fleet fishing rights that have been acquired in accordance with that principle .
i have always argued for the total exploitation of the fishing rights granted , but in all waters , not just in relation to the agreements with the southern countries .
mr president , all of this illustrates the mental and physical chaos of our community fishing authorities , and it will only be resolved when the guidelines which i referred to earlier are established in a clear and agreed way .
can i first of all welcome the report and congratulate the rapporteur for his work in bringing forward this report ?
there is little doubt that fisheries agreements are coming under much closer scrutiny to determine what they achieve and what they deliver , not only for people in the european union , but also for the countries with which they were concluded in the first place .
the rapporteur rightly mentioned the agreement with morocco several times .
we cannot overlook the concern about fisheries agreements .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i should like to say a warm thank you to the rapporteur , mr varela suanzes-carpegna , for the two reports he has submitted today when the new protocol for a fisheries agreement between the european community and the republics of mauritius and guinea is up for discussion .
this new protocol is the fourth since the framework agreement came into force in 1990 .
licence fees for ship owners have been considerably increased , from eur 20 to eur 25 per tonne .
that is in line with the council ' s 1997 decision in connection with the third country agreements , whereby costs are to be distributed in a balanced way .
i should like specifically to mention at this point that a premium is to be introduced for the purpose of supporting the guinean authorities in improving fish stocks in guinea ' s exclusive economic zone .
finally , the protocol provides for close cooperation between both parties in administering the measures .
monitoring is to be facilitated by means of a detailed financial report and by the community ' s ability to review payments in the light of whether or not the measures have in practice been carried out .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
i would like to thank you both for the courage and open-mindedness with which you have both accepted the invitation i made to you during my official visit to the middle east in february this year .
it has been made possible because you are both men of peace , and it is as such that parliament welcomes you here today .
i am mindful that your visit is also due in great part to the persuasive diplomatic efforts of our fellow member , luisa morgantini , chairman of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council , whom i must thank particularly for this . ( applause ) it is highly significant that , in your capacities as the speakers of the two assemblies which will be required to ratify the agreements which are being drawn up , and in which negotiations you are yourselves taking part , you have opted to come together to address the european parliament .
there is not one of us who is unaware of the complexity of the situation in the middle east , in this land which is home to what a large part of the human race considers to be the most sacred historic sites , which are hence the most disputed sites .
mr avraham burg , speaker of the knesset , mr abu ala , speaker of the palestinian legislative council , the debate which you have just heard has testified to the european union ' s and , in particular , the european parliament ' s interest in the progress of the current negotiations .
allow me to hope , without denying the major obstacles , weighty as we know them to be , during this crucial phase of the negotiations , that you will be able to assure this house that the gateway to peace will remain open and that both your nations will go through it together .
mrs fontaine , president of the european parliament , members of the european parliament , ladies and gentlemen , let me begin by expressing my great pleasure at the dialogue we have had this morning on the peace process and europe ' s great interest in the success of this process and in establishing a climate favourable to this peace .
let me also express my great pleasure at seeing a great number of european leaders who have distinguished themselves in working and in continuing to work in a serious way in order to find a solution to the problem of the middle east .
it is my very great honour , as president of the palestinian legislative council , to accept your invitations to this significant meeting with the elected representatives of the nations of the european union .
your great experience will prove invaluable in this .
madam president , with great respect , let me mention your important visit to palestine and to the legislative council .
however , despite the divine blessing , this land has undergone many conflicts throughout history .
the twentieth century , which saw the tragedy of the jewish people in europe , has also borne witness to the tragedy of the palestinian people in their own country , when the rest of the world started to look for a solution to europe ' s jewish problem in the land of palestine .
the jewish state was declared on 15 may 1948 , and was immediately recognised by the countries of the west , led by the countries of europe and the united states , who granted this state all the necessary support while the palestinian people continued to endure every form of privation , emigration , the enforced displacement of persons , and the lack of their own country , their own identity or their own state .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the conflicts and the wars in our region have wrought havoc , causing destruction , desolation and enormous losses in human and material terms .
throughout the second half of the twentieth century , the region experienced many wars and confrontations which caused death and destruction everywhere , reducing the region ' s economies to war economies , undermining development operations in many countries and causing scientific and cultural backwardness in others .
following the major problems related to israel ' s isolation from its neighbours , the permanent state of alert related to the state of war in the region and the harsh suffering of the palestinian people remaining on palestinian territory or becoming refugees abroad or in the camps , it was essential to take the initiative of finding an alternative to war and bloody conflict .
the peace process was launched in madrid in 1991 .
we took part in this process , driven by our sincere determination to arrive at a just peace throughout the region in general and between palestinians and israelis in particular .
this process is based on resolutions 242 and 338 of the united nations security council , which stipulate the inadmissibility of acquiring alien territories by force .
it is also based on the search for a fair solution to the refugee problem and on the principle of territories in exchange for peace .
the washington talks and , similarly , those which took place in oslo , led to an agreement in the form of a declaration of principles , the oslo accords .
the plo exchanged mutual recognition documents with the israeli government , in what was in my view the most significant phase in the history of the arab-israeli conflict in general and the palestinian-israeli conflict in particular .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the declaration of principles for the transitional period and for the talks on permanent status was drawn up on the basis of a defined philosophy and clear political principles , particularly un security council resolutions 242 and 338 and their implementation , the territories in exchange for peace and a timetable for the negotiations on the permanent status .
during this phase , presidential and legislative elections would take place in the west bank , in the gaza strip and the arabic city of jerusalem , al-quds .
all this was to be achieved in less than five years , by 4 may 1999 , and to be crowned by the creation of an independent palestinian state .
we accepted these accords and complied with their implementation , but unfortunately we encountered serious problems , and faced continuous attempts to break the agreements and to reject what had been agreed , and also non-compliance with the agreed schedule , particularly the third-phase troop redeployment , the withdrawal from the occupied territories and the release of all prisoners and detainees , which was supposed to be completed by the end of the interim period , on 4 may 1999 .
so many elements relating to the transitional period have still not been implemented , despite the long period of time which has elapsed , increasing the suffering of the palestinian people and jeopardising the entire peace process .
i had the opportunity to lead negotiations with the israeli government over the last eight years , from the initial oslo negotiations up to the stockholm negotiations which prepared the way for the recent camp david summit , via the second oslo negotiations , the economic negotiations in paris and the negotiations preparatory to the wye river agreement .
for several months we have been engaged in talks to establish permanent status , even before israel has completed its commitments under the interim period .
i am also very regretful and sorry that the camp david summit did not have a successful outcome , especially since it came eight months after strenuous negotiations in the region , but also in stockholm , in sweden , and in washington , and followed the considerable efforts made by president clinton and his colleagues .
fourthly , agreement on each of the key issues , either in a framework agreement or in the definitive agreement , must include these three important principles : firstly , recognition of the principle , secondly , recognition of the mechanisms implementing the principle , thirdly , agreement on the time limit for the execution thereof .
although both parties , palestinians and israelis , made considerable efforts to reconcile their positions , both during the talks or during the camp david summit , i must regretfully inform you that there is still a great gulf and that it will still take a lot to bridge that gulf .
israel must recognise palestinian sovereignty of jerusalem and , in return , we are willing to discuss any israeli concerns about the city , whether regarding jerusalem as an open city , or about freedom of worship and freedom of movement within jerusalem , or any other israeli concerns .
you will be aware that the united nations organisation , the security council , adopted resolution 181 to make this holy city the city of the three monotheistic religions , the city of those that believe in one god , and decided that jerusalem would be an international city which belonged to all the nations of the world .
otherwise , any solution would be truncated or incomplete .
the palestinian position in this respect is based on international resolutions on the right of palestinian refugees to return to their homes and to their property , and their right to compensation in accordance with resolution 194 of the general assembly of the united nations , and on the determination of procedures , obtained following agreements , enabling them to exercise their right to return .
in addition , these resolutions call for the withdrawal of the israeli occupation forces from palestinian territory occupied since the june 1967 war , for the 4 june border effective before the outbreak of hostilities to be respected .
this is a further factor in maintaining the division between the two parties on this subject .
i should like to address my friend and colleague , avraham burg , to say that israel was created on the basis of a security council resolution and not on the basis of a precept in the torah .
consequently , if we do not respect international legitimacy , the international community will suffer from the failure of a solution to the middle east conflict .
ladies and gentlemen , the overwhelming majority of countries , including the european union , have recognised the international resolutions that the palestinian solution is based on .
that it the situation up to and after camp david .
we do , however , want a peace that is just , and a peace that we can defend and safeguard , a lasting peace for our children , our grandchildren and all future generations .
at this time , speaking from the rostrum of the european parliament , sharing our problems and our future prospects , we can only express our considerable appreciation for the euro-mediterranean cooperation which is starting to gain ground thanks to the consolidation of economic , social , political , cultural and parliamentary relations , with a view to responding to the interests of the nations of this region .
we consider this collaboration , which benefits from your contribution , to be one of the main pillars of peace , stability and prosperity .
it is also our pleasure to express our high regard for europe ' s political and economic support for the peace plan in the region in general , and for the palestinian people in particular , and also our appreciation of europe ' s increasing role in consolidating world peace and pushing forward the peace process in our region and throughout the world .
we are very appreciative , for example , of the position which the countries of the european union adopted at the time of the berlin declaration in march 1999 .
europe has always had an important role to play throughout the world .
we welcome its involvement in the middle east peace process .
having abandoned its colonial heritage , the unified europe must now play a part which is in keeping with the tradition of its culture and civilisation , calling for the principles of freedom , emancipation and human rights in a free and independent country .
from this rostrum , i would also like to address my own people , the palestinian people , to say that peace is a great battle which awaits us .
i would like to share with you a different kind of optimism , an optimism which says that tomorrow will be even better than today and today was a perfect morning .
on behalf of so many of us in the middle east , especially so many of us in israel , i should like to thank you for your efforts and the efforts of the entire distinguished gathering here this morning to push forward dialogue , understanding , and the process of listening to each other in the middle east .
i have no problem with that , but would ask only one thing , namely that you should chair it .
a meeting such as the one we are having here on the very day that the leaders of our peoples are meeting each other again in the united states of america , trying to promote another step , one more centimetre towards a better future for our children , is a crucial moment .
not only do the leaders of our nations have the responsibility of making peace , but we , as elected representatives of our people , also bear the burden of responsibility for trying to enhance the people-to-people relationship in such a way that eventually , when peace is signed between the two sides , the people will be ready to accept the message .
more than this , for many of us in israel , europe is not just a continent .
for many of us in israel europe is a value system .
for many of us in israel europe is something wider than its worldly presence .
europe for us is responsibility for the environment .
so when we are negotiating peace in the middle east , we feel every day that we are not just doing what is good for our people , but we try harder and double our efforts because we have a sense of responsibility to the extent that the stability of our region is the key to the stability of the rest of the world .
the middle east is the key to the stability of the world .
both of us , for all our disagreements , are fully committed to a peaceful middle east for our own sake and the sake of our children and the rest of the world . ( applause ) it is a very personal privilege for me to share this very important european podium this morning with abu ala .
he is the man to whom my children and the children of his people owe so much on account of his courage , creativity , devotion and commitment to change the strategy of the middle east from a strategy of conflict to a strategy of dialogue , understanding and acceptance of the other .
i would like , abu ala , to tell you what i told you when you came as my guest to the knesset , when i met you at my home - i hope that i shall not do you any political damage back home by mentioning these things - and in all other places where we have met , namely that the middle east of our generation is privileged to have a great man like you leading your people . ( applause ) i feel very pleased to be here with you this morning .
coming to this house after you passed the resolution on the memory of the holocaust , first mooted in stockholm and eventually embraced by the majority in this house ; the kind of help you are giving openly and secretly , to jews in need in distressed areas around the world ; and of course your unequivocal commitment to peace encompassing various interpretations and schools of thought : all these things make me feel happy to be here this morning .
in 1948 there were seven arab parties engaged against the newly born state of israel .
in 1967 only three out of the seven - egypt , jordan and syria - fought against us .
in 1973 only two out of the three - syria and egypt - were against us .
the palestinians did not fight against us as a nation in 1948 or join the struggle against us as a belligerent in 1963 , but all of a sudden - and unbelievably - we now find ourselves in the middle of negotiations .
and this will happen because of this kind of partnership and because our people and their people in the middle east understand where the modern world is going .
all of us come from the political arena , and you know as well as i do that in politics there is no such thing as good timing .
because abu ala yes , international law is very important .
but this is what i have tried to do , in my commitment to this region of the world , to the monotheistic idea , to the dialogue between religions , all because sometime in history , the founding father of my nation , abraham , after whom i am named , came up with the concept that there is one god .
thank god , this one god is represented by five parties in our knesset today , but that is a different story . ( laughter ) therefore , when we are seeking practical political solutions , we have to understand that these are solutions for historical problems and people 's faith and beliefs .
practically , we have never been so close to each other , but what do we know about the icons , the symbols , the things that have been there for so many years ?
i would like to say something briefly about the way we see jerusalem .
we need to find a political compromise but also a religious compromise . ( applause ) i have a feeling that the challenge of jerusalem is the biggest political challenge ever witnessed .
king hussein 's idea was presented to all our leaders and i am pleased to say that the sides have not rejected the idea .
i do not want peace in the middle east to be a win-lose situation .
i would like to see a palestinian state declared on a basis of understanding and mutual acceptance and consent between the two sides , with israel the first to recognise it in the international community .
that is what i wanted for many years before it became the official policy , not policy , the official mood in my country .
i have no problem with the palestinian state or abu ala .
on the contrary , as soon as we have a palestinian state , the dialogue between us will be a dialogue between equals .
any issues that are not resolved now , we can deal with later on and continue the dialogue between us .
i know that many of the issues were resolved at camp david but there are other issues that i hope we can solve .
personally , of course , i admire him , although he does not admire me and rightly so , but the two of us can play a role in the regions .
the palestinians have not yet had the chance to develop their own independent economy .
we would like to see europe and the rest of the world helping both of us to improve the economic level of the region so that there is a balance between the two economies .
this will prevent frustration in the relationship between the two states and the individuals within those societies will not despair and take refuge in religious fundamentalism .
my father , who at the time was 80 years old , was in the back seat .
in his 40 years as a member of the knesset he served in every cabinet in israel and he was the head of the israeli-egyptian team that negotiated autonomy for the palestinians .
my father was born in dresden and lost his entire family in the holocaust .
it is with me day in and day out and i believe there will be peace , not in my son 's generation but in the generation of abu ala and myself : a permanent , solid , good peace for the betterment of the world . ( loud and sustained applause ) ladies and gentlemen , it is my sincere opinion that we have just witnessed a very moving moment that will , perhaps , one day be seen as a historic moment .
when he met you , the norwegian negotiators introduced you as ' enemy number one ' , and yet after the very tough negotiations , you went to visit him in tel aviv , and you went for a walk on the sea front , he says , away from all the media pressure , and , ahead of the thinking of the time , discussed how , after the historic breakthrough in oslo , you might establish a sustainable and equitable peace , as you have said .
you have clearly understood that you will have the european parliament at your side , and that is why you are here today .
i remind you that greece , as well as germany and france , are countries that belong to the schengen area .
the danish people have a right to know in advance of the referendum on 28 september where the " no " campaign funds have come from .
i would like to commend the european commission on what is an extremely well argued and well presented report , drawn up in record time considering the relative lack of resources of the departments concerned and the demands laid down at the european council in tampere last year .
the commission has come forward with an excellent draft directive which will permit third-country nationals legally resident in a member state of the union to reside in another member state as is required if a true area of freedom , security and justice is to be established .
the commission has said , quite rightly in my view , that the goal of zero immigration mentioned in past community discussion was never realistic and sought instead to put forward realistic proposals for the protection of the rights of third-country nationals in accordance with the many international treaties that have been signed by member states , such as the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenants of 1966 on civil and political rights and on economic and social rights .
the importance of the family as a unit is also recognised and the importance of making a success of the integration of third-country nationals residing lawfully in eu member states is the whole basis of these proposals .
the commission proposal quite clearly recognises the difference of legal treatment between descending and ascending relatives .
it is evident that , in the context of the international legal framework , mention must be made of the un convention on the rights of the child .
there is no similar convention dealing with ascending relatives , but it is clearly the case that if we wish to live up to our humanitarian ideals we must provide the opportunity for third-country nationals to bring dependent relatives in the ascending line into their family units .
this has been a matter of some debate within the committee .
i am pleased to see that a number of amendments to the final report have been put forward ; in particular amendments nos 18 to 23 , which propose a compromise on this matter .
amendment no 6 recognises the very real problems that the administrations of the member states currently have with the workload created by the demands of family reunification .
amendment no 9 allows each member state to introduce more favourable provisions than those set down in the directives , and insists that these new rules will not lower current standards of protection .
amendment no 11 deals with the grounds on which a member state may deny the right of entry to a relative , namely on grounds of public policy , domestic security and public health .
parliament had relatively little time to look at it and inevitably not all of the compromises which were necessary to reach a favourable outcome were achieved in committee .
mr president , my task as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market was a relatively easy one compared with that of the honourable members in the committee responsible , and i would like to congratulate them all on the outcome , even if we do have to discuss a few compromise amendments in plenary today .
i would also like to say how impressed i am with the logistical quality of the draft directive , which certainly cannot be said of all the commission ' s draft directives .
pursuant to the new article 63 of the eu treaty , it is now the community ' s task to settle the matter of family reunification , and the community must take these measures in accordance with the provisions of international law , in particular the european convention of human rights and the other instruments of international law already mentioned by our committee chairman .
the right to respect for family life is a universal human right .
this particularly applies to the right of eu citizens themselves to live together in their home land with family members originating from a third country and not to be in the position where the only way they can live with them as a family is to avail themselves of freedom of movement and settle in another member states .
the commission has put forward the first draft of a legislative initiative in this field , which concerns the right to family reunification .
the commission lumps economically motivated immigration and asylum together .
another problem with the present draft directive concerns the widening of the definition of family .
it is not right to bring people to a foreign country without making the necessary provisions for foreign nationals and local people to live together in peace and friendship .
we must clarify today in this parliament whether we want the immigrants and refugees who live amongst us to do so legally with their families , giving them the opportunity to live a normal life and to integrate fully into our society , or whether we are going to continue to feed the myth that they are provisional co-citizens whose final destiny is to return to the hypothetical homes they came from .
this issue is so important that we must make an effort to reach a consensus .
i would like us today to send a message to the people who live amongst us that they can do so with their right to live as a family recognised .
we have also applied these rules we are debating to people who are under alternative protection .
mr president , the eldr group is backing this report as one of the essential building blocks in constructing the area of freedom , security and justice and in following up the tampere summit , which rightly made it a priority to establish rights of free movement for legally resident third-country nationals .
to take up some specific points in the report , first of all on the inclusion of beneficiaries of subsidiary protection .
the eldr group would regret that because we think that , like refugees , beneficiaries of subsidiary protection should be in .
on ascending relatives , we consider that amendment no 20 is superfluous because there is a general right in article 9 of the proposal to apply a non-discriminatory means test to all entrants .
the proposal will not force member states to give legal recognition to unmarried partnerships , but if they do they must treat unmarried partners like spouses .
mr president , we are going to vote on a report today that has caused a political stir in certain eu states .
the commission and commissioner vitorino have done some sterling work here , and i would like , on behalf of my group , to take the opportunity to thank them for it .
sadly there were , and still are , reservations against including refugees benefiting from temporary protection in this directive , and against recognising same-sex relationships as the basis for family reunification .
this debate demonstrates once again that , unfortunately , integration and migration policy is still a controversial issue in the european union .
i regret this decision , and the fact that ministers for home affairs appear to carry more weight in this parliament than the honourable members , who are expected to act according to their consciences .
in dealing in depth with the issue of the right to live as a family , and in defining the precise conditions for its application , the text enables us to hold a real debate .
far from casting suspicion a priori , as is often the case , on those who wish to live with their spouses and children , the text recognises the legitimacy of such a right even if , in fact , this right must now apply equally to homosexual couples and to all other categories , as the honourable member has just said , especially in the case of asylum seekers .
the text also takes into account that nowadays there are several types of families in our society , especially certain forms of cohabitation , and that we cannot therefore discriminate against immigrants who live in the same way .
we must also recognise that the waves of immigrants towards the countries of the european union have been more or less constant for a couple of decades .
in other words , by implementing restrictive laws , member states have not succeeded in reducing the overall number of entrants ; they have simply reduced the number of legal immigrants while increasing the numbers of illegal immigrants by declaring them illegal .
by underpinning these values , this draft directive will not only have positive consequences for immigrants and their families , but it will also be a symbol for refuge and integration .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the text that has been presented to us , and in fact the entire immigration policy that is being pursued by european institutions , exhibits a worrying trend .
what were initially nothing more than a temporary work contracts are tending to turn into permanent residence .
the only solution worthy of the name is to organise family reunification but to organise it in the country of origin with the support of the policy of cooperation to which end these methods should be employed .
i am sorry that the committee has behaved in this way , because i believe a sledgehammer approach does the cause more harm than good , particularly in an area as sensitive as this .
we have no intention of voting for this document unless it includes our amendments and follows our political line . ( applause from the right ) mr president , after the recent events in dover , when 29 illegal chinese immigrants suffocated to death , the tragedy of illegal immigration and the methods of responding to it have become a considerable problem , which the european union must definitely tackle .
what is more , this right has long existed in the form of article 8 of the european convention on human rights , according to which all persons have the right to family life .
as has already been said , this directive is the first example of this type of structure resulting from the treaty of amsterdam and the tampere european council , which is why it is so important .
the directive proposed by the commission enables us to take a major step forward , under conditions that are entirely satisfactory , but with all the necessary guarantees .
let us remember that this is the first text in the process of integrating the ' justice and internal affairs ' pillar into community policy in the wake of the treaty of amsterdam and the tampere european council last november .
mr president , i am of the firm opinion that this draft directive is a major step forward .
the laws in force provide for the right of residence to be revoked if there is a break-up in the matrimonial household , effectively outlawing divorce , and , as has just been said , homosexual couples are still not recognised .
no one would dispute the fact that families have the right to live together .
that is the crucial problem we face with this directive .
mr president , i would like to begin by warmly congratulating the european commission and especially commissioner vitorino , on its extremely constructive legislative proposal on the issue of family reunification .
at last , europe is on the move , after decades of zero immigration and , more especially , after so many years of refusal by europeans to grant third-country nationals residing lawfully in the european union their fundamental human rights .
recognising the right to family life is one of the basic conditions for the integration of refugees and migrants in the social life of the country in which they reside .
yet i would like to say that i understand the qualms of many governments , including my own , concerning this draft directive .
indeed , countries such as germany , where millions of refugees and migrants have sought refuge , are shouldering an enormous burden .
but at the same time i would like to point out and to highlight the enormous contribution that refugees and migrants make to the economic development of our countries , through their work and through taxation .
commissioner vitorino , although i hold you in high regard - and have said as much on many occasions in this house - the commission document itself is shot through with negligent ignorance as to the situation in the very member states that have been generous enough to accord large numbers of refugees and asylum seekers the right to protection and hospitality over the past few years .
you ask too much of our society , and in so doing , run the risk of creating a breeding ground for something that we have always fought against in this house .
the liberal and social democrat delegates from the large member states - because so far today , i have only heard speakers of this political persuasion from the small member states - must ask themselves whether they are remotely in touch with the electorate , whether they are aware of the consequences , and whether they have grasped that more authority for parliament in these matters would also bring increased responsibility .
it gives free rein to all kinds of interpretations .
there is only one thing we can do here , and that is reject this proposal .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , this is the first time since the treaty of amsterdam entered into force that the european parliament has been consulted on a commission proposal for a council directive on the matter of the lawful immigration of persons originating from third countries .
the commission has decided that a proposal on family reunification should start us off on this journey , this considerable effort to construct a common european immigration policy .
i believe family reunification is a concept that is thoroughly coherent with the commitments that all the member states undertook several decades ago in the sphere of international law .
from the reference to the universal declaration of human rights to the international convenants made under the united nations in 1966 , to the european convention on human rights itself - in all these instruments of international law family protection is upheld as an essential factor for ensuring social peace .
i do not believe anybody can deny that family reunification is also an important instrument for the integration of immigrants from third countries into their host societies .
it must also be recognised that family reunification is significant in numerical terms because it is today one of the main causes of immigration into the countries of europe .
those who refuse to see that this directive aims at setting up legal rules to respond to a situation that already exists on the ground and try to blame the commission for inventing a new flow of migrants are therefore being unfair in their analysis of the actual situation that we are addressing .
this is that family reunification is a factor which promotes the personal stability of the immigrant , since family life is always an important instrument for integration into the host country .
the heads of state and government at tampere in fact unanimously stressed the need to ensure equitable treatment for third-country nationals who are lawfully resident in the member states of the union .
instead it is a right subject to conditions , whether procedural in nature or material conditions regarding the definition of the status of the family members in the country to which they have been admitted and regarding the rights that they enjoy .
for our part , we are also willing to introduce an amended proposal as quickly as possible so that we can achieve a positive outcome during the french presidency .
i should like to thank all the members who have taken part in the debate .
it is therefore natural that it should be a lively , even passionate debate , and one in which there are divergent views .
i should like to explain to you all what the commission ' s position is on the more difficult political issues in this directive .
i accept , however , that it is necessary to exclude the beneficiaries of temporary protection or subsidiary protection .
i am convinced that a certain kind of beneficiary of temporary or subsidiary protection should also have the right to family reunification .
i do recognise , however , that the lack of harmonisation of this concept at european level and especially the commission ' s intention to submit a directive on temporary and subsidiary protection to parliament and the council next year will allow us to deal with the right to family reunification in that directive very soon .
we therefore accept an amendment to the proposal excluding beneficiaries of temporary or subsidiary protection .
where issues relating to the concept of the family are concerned , i should like to make it very clear that in this proposal the commission is not interfering in the matter of defining the concept of the family .
this proposal does not say that all the member states will be obliged to recognise unmarried partnerships and accept unmarried partners under all circumstances .
we are simply saying that in those countries where unmarried partnerships are placed on an equal footing with marriage in domestic law for their own nationals , these unmarried partnerships must also be recognised for the purpose of family reunification for third-country nationals .
i should therefore like to state clearly that there is nothing in this proposal favouring family reunification for polygamous marriages .
but how could you explain treating the children of a second polygamous marriage differently from the children of a first marriage or the children of an unmarried partnership ?
finally , mr president , the commission is willing to accept a number of other amendments and other modifications regarding the rights of family members , the conditions and clarification of the conditions for family reunification , the situation in which the person being reunited may acquire independent status , and concerning procedural rules .
i should like the final opinion of parliament to have as broad a support-base as possible .
the debate is closed .
this is in my view the crux of the problem described in my report and will determine the way we vote .
today , for the majority of us who live in europe , european citizenship is still a concept that is devoid of meaning .
if we want europe to be more than a vast free trade area , we must take action to ensure that european citizenship goes beyond the status of a concept and takes root in the everyday life of the citizens of europe .
the directives that have been examined concern community nationals , but they must be modified in favour of third-county nationals .
although member states have made great progress in ensuring the free movement of goods , services and capital , it is clear that we are no nearer to achieving the same for people .
in june 1990 , the council adopted three commission draft directives to extend this right to all member state nationals , even if they were not economically active .
the transposition of these directives was doubly problematic .
because the acceptance procedures are long and difficult , it is often necessary to take out a second health insurance in the host country .
finally , administrative procedures are too long - more than six months - and become very costly when frequent renewal is necessary , as the period of validity is normally two years rather than five .
i will now present the main measures advocated with a view to overcoming these problems .
it will still be possible at a later date to implement a whole raft of specific measures to help citizens depending on their particular situation .
this reworking of the existing directives must dissociate the fundamental right of movement and residence from any economic considerations .
until these mechanisms can be put in place , a transitional measure may be to introduce a one-year residence permit for all applicants .
third-country citizens living and working legally in a member state must benefit from the same rights as european citizens .
furthermore , it is a pity that the council has not followed up this proposal of citizenship and residence .
the treaty statement that every citizen should have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of member states and the reality are still far apart .
they received a standard letter from our local social security office asking them to attend for a two-hour interview and to bring with them as many items as possible on a non-exhaustive list of about twenty documents such as a passport , bank statements , or household bills to " establish their identity . "
the committee on petitions was asked to submit an opinion because it is a special committee that is directly concerned with the problems facing the general public .
we are constantly hearing of cases where eu citizens are unable to reside in another member state .
therefore , let us urge the eu member states to implement the existing community law provisions without delay , before we consider extending these rights to third-country nationals at any rate .
for example , section 20 of the resolution extends family reunification to non-community families and their relatives in ascending and descending lines , who are not dependent on the resident , which would increase admission without restrictions .
furthermore , i believe that all the false logic which is used when referring to migrant workers has no place in this debate , not so much because of the subject matter but rather because it is not appropriate for the study of these directives .
in order to facilitate their mobility , we should free them of unnecessary costs and make their residence compatible with their periods of study or apprenticeship .
finally , i would also like to point out that it makes no sense to link public order , as section 6 of the resolution does , with the schengen area in a proposal aimed at the citizens of the european union , who are not governed by the schengen legislation but by community directives , in particular those relating to public order .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , allow me to begin by thanking the european commission for its sustained efforts in keeping the right of residence - within the context of the free movement of persons in europe - high on the agenda ; this is once again borne out by these two communications on the right of residence .
secondly , i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report .
she has opted for a broad approach , mr hernandez mollar , and her report covers right of residence for all citizens , including the economically active and those from third countries , topics which are , in fact , covered by proposals already submitted .
my group supports this approach because , despite all initiatives from the commission , despite the veil report , despite the action programme and despite the legislative initiatives , the proposals remain on the council table with very little happening to them .
firstly , it has become apparent recently that the european labour market is relying increasingly on mobility ; an ever dwindling number of companies manage to fill their vacancies .
whether they choose to live together , and whether they are single , gay or lesbian , they should also be able to claim right of residence in those countries where these types of relationship are recognised ; if not , we would be denying thousands of people the right to live in families .
we therefore give this report by mrs boumediene-thiery our unconditional support .
mr president , there has thankfully been a change in european community law over the last 30 years from freedom of movement of persons being seen as purely an economic issue - functional mobility - to it being seen as a personal right .
but the real bottom line for liberals is whether the member states believe in and respect the notion of european citizenship , not only allowing the citizens of a member state and their families to move around but also conferring such rights , to the greatest extent possible , on legally resident third-country nationals and their families - which unfortunately were not covered by the commission report .
this banishment violates the principle of equality before the law that is enshrined in article 7 of the universal declaration of human rights .
finally , it is important to facilitate the granting and renewal of permanent residence permits , as a residence permit of very brief duration leads to employment of very brief duration , discrimination and exploitation .
finally , the time has come to promote a european citizenship that is based on residence .
the right to vote must be extended to non-community nationals if we want to get rid of xenophobia and racism in europe .
mr president , as the rapporteurs who have just spoken said , although the right to free movement is deemed to be one of the most important aspects of the fundamental right of european citizenship , it is a right which is all too often subject to restrictions , and the large number of petitions to the european parliament on precisely this subject are testimony to this .
i would first of all like to focus on a point strongly emphasised in the report : the need to fight against all abusive and excessively restrictive interpretations of the concept of public policy by some member states .
for example , someone who has lived in a country since childhood or , at any rate , for a large number of years , and therefore has cultural , social and family ties in that country , should not be deported unless he or she is convicted of a crime which is deemed to be , in effect , a serious offence , under the criminal law of the country of residence .
sadly , this is very often not the case .
it is therefore all the more extraordinary that 50 years after the signing of the convention of human rights , which ironically was signed in rome , and one year after the treaty of amsterdam upholding such rights , that one european family , which for a thousand years has been involved with the continent 's history , is being denied the fundamental rights my colleague has mentioned .
the watson report demands such rights for family reunion and the boumediene-thiery report for freedom of movement and residence , even for third-country nationals and even for convicted criminals .
this issue goes far beyond individual families and goes right to the heart of the union 's respect for its own laws and treaties .
firstly the commission has failed to deal with the issue of the 12 to 14 million third-country nationals living legally in the union who currently suffer discrimination and , outside the union 's island states can move freely de facto but cannot do so legally , which of course creates situations in which they are exploited and used in illegal ways .
with all due respect for the rapporteur , i have to say that we also have a problem with a number of areas that she has not dealt with , one of which is the issue of football hooliganism .
i am generally in favour of free movement but i think it needs to be limited .
europol should be used to prevent the free movement of people who have been convicted of football-related crimes to ensure that they do not cause the same kind of trouble as at previous world cup and european championship tournaments .
i hope that the danish government will use the provisions in this instance .
i naturally hope that the free movement of people who have the misfortune to be hiv-positive is not restricted in any way on grounds of public health .
we might say that this right contributes towards a practical and concrete expression of the concept of european citizenship , in that the great challenge facing us at the moment is to turn this legally recognised right into a practical reality that is implemented in citizens ' everyday lives .
i also agree with those who have pointed out that the transposition of these directives has taken place too slowly , or even incorrectly in some cases .
in addition , we must also face up to the difficulties arising out of implementation of the directive on special measures concerning the movement and residence of citizens of the union which are justified on grounds of public policy , public security or public health , in that there should be guidelines not only for the member states , which have so far interpreted the provisions of the directive in quite a variety of ways , but also for the citizens regarding the rights conferred on them .
the member states may impose restrictions on the right to free movement of community citizens , particularly in matters of entry to and expulsion from their territory as well as the issuing or renewal of residence permits , where this is justified on grounds of public policy , public security or public health .
member states cannot , however , abuse such prerogatives in a european union based on the rule of law , respect for human rights and particularly respect for the european convention on human rights as well as , soon , a charter of fundamental rights .
personally , in tabling amendment no 15 , i support the pensioners , for although the measure facilitates the movement of non-eu citizens , it does not remove the difficulties facing its own citizens , particularly its disabled citizens , who wish to travel within europe .
therefore , our goal must be to bring about the free movement of pensioners and disabled citizens in europe .
indeed , i think that , for the commission , the establishment of european citizenship has created a new legal and political environment and , for our part , we intend to draw all the practical lessons we can both in the legislative field and in the field of day-to-day public administration .
with regard to the motion for a resolution that you have just presented , i would simply like to address two or three comments directed at the commission .
the three directives on the right of residence of the non-economically active have , i am sure , enabled thousands of european union citizens to benefit from this right without encountering any particular problems .
the action of the commission also applies to the laws of member states .
one could , in my view , cite several cases where this intervention has brought about modification of the legislation of member states and sometimes even the examination , by the court of justice , of issues to which it has provided positive solutions .
moreover , i would like to draw your attention to the fact that this morning we debated the directive on family reunification and that the tampere conclusions require the commission to present a proposal on the recognition of entry , admission and residence conditions and on the legal status of third-country nationals within the european union legally .
for all these reasons , the commission shares the opinion expressed by several members of this house on the need for a global reworking of existing texts within the context of a single legal instrument , which will organise and guarantee the unimpeded exercise of the freedom of movement and residence .
the unique status of a european union citizen necessarily creates the need for a unique general system of movement and residence in response to the demand to enrich the content of european citizenship in accordance with the political aspirations of the union .
this draft directive concerns strategic environmental assessments which , in brief , involve a systematic process for identifying , analysing and assessing the influence and likely effects of plans and programmes upon the environment .
parliament tabled 29 amendments , of which 15 are more or less to be found in the common position .
nor can we accept that financial plans and the whole of the defence sector are exempt from strategic environmental assessments .
amendments 11 and 31 also worry me a little .
mr president , this is a small but significant measure to extend the duties of member states to carry out strategic environmental assessments on the planning framework as well as on the actual plans where the implementation would or could have a significant impact on the environment .
all member states voted for the common position , but some made it clear that they would go very little further than that .
we will however be rejecting some of her amendments , notably those that seek to extend the system to all financial plans , to defence and civil defence , to consultation beyond what is reasonable and to the general policies she has just mentioned , which become more of a wish-list than firm proposals .
however , we agree that it makes no sense to exclude projects financed wholly or partially by the european union , especially structural funds , and we certainly agree that it makes sense to talk to neighbouring states outside the european union .
we also of course have to consider amendment no 26 , in the name of some of our german colleagues , which rejects the common position .
we believe that to be a good thing and my ppe-de group will therefore not be supporting amendment no 26 and will vote for the common position .
we shall then vote for the amendments we supported in committee and for one further clarifying amendment which has been submitted since , but we shall oppose the amendments which we believe are a step too far in terms of what is desirable , practical and acceptable .
mr president , the directive we are about to vote on represents a major step forwards .
the amendments approved by the committee on the environment substantially improve the council 's common position .
in this context , i feel that plans and projects financed from the structural funds must without exception be governed by the directive , seeing that , in practice , they represent all the programmes implemented , particularly in regions whose development is lagging behind .
it is unreasonable to do what is at present done with eu funds and to support such activities within these sectors as are opposed from an environmental point of view in other contexts .
we are basically in favour of the proposal of the environment committee and its rapporteur .
there is a directive on the right to information , no 313 , which has been repeatedly ignored by the member states and by local and regional authorities .
likewise , we must include the quality of the studies and the issue of health amongst the significant sectors affected .
mr president , i welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this debate and in so doing acknowledge the positive role of parliament in setting the agenda for the highest standards of environmental protection .
there is of course a cost factor in environmental management , but equally an economic return , which not easily quantified but exists none the less .
the proposed directive , which requires an environmental assessment before the adoption of a regional or county plan , makes good environmental and economic sense .
finally , i would appeal to professional planners to use their common sense by taking account of the views of public representatives and community groups .
mr president , strategic environmental impact assessment is an instrument which allows governments to assess whether policy proposals , plans and programmes are compatible with the concept of sustainable development .
in that case , a public administration may decide to scrap a plan , programme or proposal , call these off in good time or replace them by environmentally-friendly alternatives .
mr president , the best way to integrate environmental issues with all areas of policy is to get the environmental perspective in the picture at the earliest possible stage .
in this connection i have to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , this is a new instrument and it accords with article 6 of the treaty of amsterdam , which concerns the integration of environmental policies into other areas .
accordingly , guido sacconi ' s amendment no 31 has my unequivocal support .
mr president , i would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for her constructive approach and for being open to dialogue with all the interested parties - including the commission - which i hope will finally enable us all to achieve a positive result in relation to this directive .
the joint position clearly distinguishes the plans for which the strategic environmental assessment is obligatory from those for which it is necessary to make a selection , a screening .
firstly , there must be a balance between the plans for which the strategic environmental assessment is obligatory and those for which we have to make a selection .
secondly , the scope of the directive must , in any event , be sufficiently broad and systematically include those plans which have a significant impact on the environment .
nevertheless , we believe that some amendments go too far and propose the strategic environmental assessment for plans which will not probably have a significant impact on the environment .
certain amendments would reduce the scope , such as amendment no 3 , which limits the scope to the plans financed by the eu , or amendments nos 11 and 31 , which allow states to choose the level or levels of planning with which these strategic environmental assessments will be carried out .
now , if parliament were to adopt these amendments together with those which broaden the scope to plans with no significant impact , it seems to me that we would end up with a text which is inconsistent with itself .
in my view , this fear is not sufficiently justified .
the carrying out of assessments at various levels of planning is not a duplication of the assessment , especially given the safeguards contained in articles 4 , 5 and 10 of the joint position which are intended to prevent just the kind of duplication which mr lange , for example , referred to .
we therefore believe that , by incorporating the provisions on the screening and the definition of the scope into their national legislation , member states would be liable to exceed the requirements of the directive and , for that reason , we will not accept these amendments .
i do not believe it is necessary to point out that this directive on the strategic environmental assessment is a key instrument for integrating the environment into policies and for promoting sustainable development in the european union .
mr president , having carefully examined all the amendments , i can tell you that the commission can accept amendments nos 1 , 5 ( sections 2 and 5 ) , 6 , 12 , 28 ( section 1 ) and 29 .
amendments nos 9 ( the part which refers to the requirement to justify that the strategic environmental assessment is not necessary ) , 10 ( sections 1 and 2 ) , 15 , 17 , 18 , 20 , 23 , 24 and 25 are acceptable in principle , providing that there is some rewording of its content .
the commission cannot , however , under any circumstances , accept amendments nos 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ( sections 1 , 3 and 4 ) , 7 , 8 , 9 ( in the part on the requirement to justify the need for a strategic environmental assessment ) , 10 ( section 3 ) , 11 , 13 , 14 , 16 , 19 , 21 , 22 , 26 , 27 , 28 ( section 2 ) , 30 and 31 .
thank you very much , commissioner .
a recent study by kimo coast watch has shown , for example , that there is still a growing volume of waste on beaches , that the sea is still being polluted and that state-of-the-art technology is being used to discharge sludge into the sea .
this was the reason why the commission was right to come up with a directive which was the subject of conciliation not so long ago .
small ports will need to make a considerable effort to accommodate this directive in the foreseeable future .
the significance of the directive resides first and foremost in the fact that all member states will be obliged to ensure that port reception facilities are set up , within the next two years , in all ports subject to this requirement .
secondly , as my honourable friend has already said , we have scored two other victories for marine protection and the citizens of the european union .
mr president , and i would have been very surprised if you had not been the one to chair this sitting again .
after all , it is a good day for europe ' s seas , as it for you personally , mr president , because i know you are a keen diver .
we would all be delighted if you had even cleaner waters to dive in in europe .
nevertheless , the 30 % introduces and establishes the principle of a ' no special fee system ' .
thirdly , all member states must carry out checks on at least 25 % of shipping .
so it is a good day for europe ' s seas and also a good day for you , mr president .
the conditions for the delivery of waste by ships at community ports have been the topic of many a discussion .
mr president , vice-president of the commission , this is perhaps the first time i have addressed the european parliament without having to express any worries or concerns about the subject of the debate .
it is a step forward .
i hope that this tradition will change under the french presidency .
in any event , we are all in favour of better cooperation and the speedier progress of the work of the council , the commission and the european parliament .
mr president , as a new member of the european parliament and as a permanent member of the conciliation committee for the first time , i have to say that i was satisfied with this procedure , which saw representatives of the main institutions of the european union making every effort to achieve a happy medium , that is to say , between the possible and the feasible , bearing in mind existing conditions and possibilities , which are of course not the same for all europe ' s ports .
let us not forget that the european ports in the mediterranean face competition from the ports of north africa , whereas the baltic or north sea ports do not face any competition .
the essential thing is that , by approving the joint text under debate , we will have a directive that will protect our seas and coastlines from pollution caused by ships , and we will also have enhanced the image of the european union as a standard-bearer for environmental policy and as an example for the rest of the world to follow .
mr president , first of all i should like to thank the rapporteur , mr bouwman , for his efforts over quite a long period of time in negotiating this very satisfactory proposal which will - as all colleagues have said so far - significantly reduce the amount of pollution dumped illegally into the seas around europe .
i particularly welcome the three-year review , because my only concern is that member states should implement this legislation that they have now signed up to .
mr president , i would like to start by congratulating mr bouwman on the publication of this text , which had been uncertain for a long time .
the principle of polluter pays is not working in the case in point , because the polluter cannot be identified .
if we want to settle this issue , we must move towards a universal fee system , which will be mandatory and not linked to the act of waste treatment .
i am among those who , in their capacity as french members of parliament , have made every effort to ensure that this text is published , even acting against the sympathies of their government towards this text or against its reservations .
it is clear that this text currently favours large ports and puts small ports , which are not equipped , at a disadvantage .
i therefore call on the council to help member states equip small ports , possibly in the framework of the structural funds , or in the form of some kind of loan , because small ports are also important elements of national and regional development and of regional and local economies .
and i believe that , if we provide small ports with waste treatment plants , we will secure the success of this directive .
in finland , we have had such a system for waste oil since 1 june .
mr president , the report by mr bouwman , which is the outcome of a long process , has in the interim become even more topical in france because of the shipwreck of the tanker , the erika , on the occasion of which the minister for the environment did not see fit to interrupt his holiday .
we will , however , vote for this report , because it seems to be moving towards better prevention of pollution and because , wishing to remain at a general level , it leaves member states a certain latitude in their choice of implementation tools .
during this time he has combined steadfastness with flexibility and intelligence to achieve a result which is acceptable to all the institutions and which will serve to make our seas cleaner .
i must tell you , for example , that this summer , one of the items in the news in the country i know best , spain , involved the southern coastlines being affected by the pollution resulting from oil tankers cleaning our their holds in international waters .
i believe we have made a great deal of progress which will noticeably improve the marine environment in the face of the deliberate contamination by certain ships - because not all of them do this sort of thing - of our coastlines .
the current version of this directive has the support of everybody .
it has the support of the shipowners because it provides them with waste facilities , which already exist in some european ports but unfortunately not in all of them , particularly not in the smaller ports , where the member states will have to make significant investments .
this version of the directive has the support of the ports , because it means that their investments in this type of facility will not put them at a competitive disadvantage , which has unfortunately been the case at times , since some ports have made considerable efforts and others have not .
it has the support of those sectors which are most sensitive to the problem of residues and the fight for sustainable development .
i believe that the whole of this house and also the representatives of the council and the commission are included in this group , not only the ecologists , but all those who are concerned about this type of problem .
this directive , of course , enjoys the support of the three institutions , the commission , the council and parliament , because we know that it will mean something positive for our citizens .
i would like to thank the council for its flexibility and its constructive will , and parliament also , especially the rapporteur , for the work carried out over this period and during the conciliation procedure .
if over the next three years we see that the member states ' actions are not sufficient and the desired results are not obtained , the commission reserves the right to present a new directive clearly establishing a minimum percentage which must be covered by the general fees or by an obligatory cleaning fee in the various european ports .
it is also the commission ' s responsibility to verify that that control of 25 % , another key element of this directive , is carried out by the member states .
i would like once again to thank parliament for standing firm on the need for a strengthened mechanism for reviewing the fees system , which will undoubtedly allow us to move forward and make a detailed study of the current system which we have implemented and the consequences for the environment .
mr president , it has already been said in the debates that we have suffered from the impact of the erika tragedy , but the cleaning out of holds is equivalent to more than one erika each year on europe ' s coastlines .
this does not mean that we are not going to move forward on issues relating to oil tankers and safety in the transport of polluting materials , such as oil and its derivatives , issues which we hope will not only make progress in this house and the council , but which will also be supplemented by means of additional initiatives which , as the commission has stated , will be presented shortly .
thank you very much , mrs de palacio .
they had 607 nuclear explosions in the atmosphere between 1949 and 1990 .
i understand that some members are against the directive we are going to vote on , but the vote in the committee on citizens ' freedoms was in favour of this directive by a clear majority .
this morning we held a very fruitful debate with the commissioner and i believe that , almost a year after the tampere summit , not to approve the first proposed directive on harmonisation in justice and internal affairs in the field of immigration , presented to us by the commission , would be inexplicable and there is no justification for it .
i understand that there are members who are totally against the right of immigrants to live as families , but that is not the majority position of this house , as was reflected in the committee on citizens ' freedoms .
i therefore ask that we go ahead with the vote on this commission proposal .
thank you , mrs terron i cusi .
i owe you an apology , madam president , because i suspect you do not have in front of you the view of the rapporteur on all of the different amendments .
if that is the case i would very happily , before the vote , explain to the house my position on the amendments put forward by the committee .
but as for the amendments put forward for plenary , because they have been the subject of last minute debate , i will leave all of those to the wisdom of the house .
thank you , mr watson .
you said this morning that you would endorse amendment no 19 at today ' s vote .
madam president , i have to say that the vote was conducted at such a speed that i was hard pressed to keep up with your capacity to reach a decision .
on the amendments that have been adopted , the commission has its doubts about amendment no 9 , and i believe we should reconsider our position .
as far as amendment no 19 is concerned , which has been adopted , and which seeks to keep refugees within the scope of the draft directive , but to exclude from this directive on the right to family reunification people who benefit from temporary protection or subsidiary protection , i maintain the position that i expressed before this house during the debate .
we must accept that all the groups have the right to express themselves in the house , but the text , in principle , belongs to the groups which negotiated it .
if anybody wants to attach themselves to it , they must have the agreement of all the groups which have produced the text .
madam president , the compromise procedure is an ad hoc procedure that is not covered by the rules of our parliament .
mr baron crespo , as you know , there is no rule of procedure that specifies this detail , but it is customary that those who have presented the text agree to sign it .
we cannot vote on a resolution when the groups say that neither the council nor the commission approves of the idea of creating a monitoring centre for industrial change .
yes , mrs plooij-van gorsel , you have the floor .
parliament was divided between supporters of two different solutions .
eventually , a majority was achieved for one of the solutions , a majority which also encompassed the group of the european united left .
in normal administrative relations , this decision by parliament would be final ; not so in the european union .
this procedure between the council and parliament resulted in a compromise which is rather noncommittal as long as it is not accompanied by a commission statement .
this statement explains how the commission interprets the word " substantial " in article 8 ( 1 ) .
without the european union , it would have been easier to reach an agreement between groups of separate countries for each sea .
i hope a review will take place within the next couple of years so that the original intentions of the bouwman report can be brought to bear .
the people of europe are deeply concerned about the pollution of the seas and the coastlines of the member states .
the european parliament echoed these legitimate concerns and amended the directive proposed by the european commission on the management of waste discharged by ships in such a way as to make member states aware of their responsibilities .
those negotiating on behalf of parliament and the council reached the following agreement : all ships calling at a port of a member state shall contribute significantly ( a statement from the commission annexed to the text considers that this means at least 30 % of the costs ) , irrespective of actual use of the facilities .
i am satisfied with the compromise we have reached .
morillon recommendation ( a5-0206 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the recommendation .
madam president , i voted against the recommendation because i feel that the provision of aid was not made sufficiently conditional upon a genuine renewal of the turkish state , genuine safeguarding of human rights and genuine protection of minors .
i believe however that the european parliament should not have changed its stance on the amendments of the first reading : article 5 ( criteria for turkey ' s accession ) , article 15 ( suspension of cooperation with turkey if there are obstacles to the issues of democracy , the rule of law , human rights , the protection or minorities ) , article 35 ( annual report on the protection of democratic principles , the rule of law , human rights and fundamental freedoms , compliance with international law ) .
the european parliament could at least take advantage of the parallel desire of the turkish government to enter the european union to demand such basic measures as the abolition of the death penalty , democratic freedoms and the cessation of the repression of the kurdish people .
and , whilst the rapporteur of the european parliament struggles to find a way of highlighting human rights without upsetting the soldiers who trample them underfoot , a franco-german-belgian consortium , as was recently reported in the press , is preparing to supply turkey with a munitions factory .
in the space of 24 hours , you are going to approve a financial package of tens of millions of euros for turkey and condemn this self-same country for bombing the kurdish populations of northern iraq , in violation of another country ' s airspace .
and when i say condemn , i greatly exaggerate the import not only of the text but also of your intentions .
what has happened to the respect for human rights , which must condition who the european union helps or cooperates with , and which you adapt to suit your own ends ?
we rejected this amendment because companies need a clear framework within which to act .
in this case , under the guise of concern for the environment , the rapporteur wants to take charge of all the policies of the member states .
the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area has no other purpose than to make it easier for european industrial products to infiltrate the markets of these countries and to simultaneously place the riches of these countries under their predatory regimes .
the communist party of greece is a strong advocate of cooperation between peoples based on equal conditions and without interference by one country in the domestic affairs of another .
it especially emphasises the responsibility of developed , capitalist countries for creating the current situation in underdeveloped countries , which is a result of its continuous pillaging of these countries .
this is written in agenda 2000 .
not wanting any roll back and unable to achieve containment , european leaders are logically seeking to prevent these nomads from leaving their home countries .
sketched out at the european summit in cannes in june 1995 , established by the barcelona conference of november 1995 in the form of a euro-mediterranean partnership , and implemented by the meda regulation of 23 july 1996 , this mediterranean policy of the european union is based on a few regional and national investment projects .
it is a meagre amount : eur 3.3 billion from 1995 to 1999 , from morocco to gaza and the west bank , even if , by adding to it the eur 3.6 million in loans from the european investment bank , the financial contribution is greater than the eur 4.4 billion given by the world bank .
it is a meagre amount , not only because , in reality , these eur 3.6 billion in commitment loans are in fact reduced to a collective payment of just eur 648 million , but also because this step is not commensurate with the size of the problem .
admittedly , for 2000-2006 , meda ii will increase loans of less than 47.1 % to arrive at a financial package of eur 8.5 billion .
however , the report on the reform of the meda programme does not set the right tone on a number of counts .
the european union is fixated with the idea of concluding free trade agreements with the southern mediterranean countries , although , paradoxically , they only have a one-sided liberalising effect .
the aim of the eu-mediterranean partnership must be to redress the balance between the northern and southern regions of the mediterranean area , improve people ' s quality of life and promote understanding between the inhabitants of the various regions .
the countries of the southern mediterranean region have been declared as the forecourts to fortress europe .
this report safeguards , once again , the free movement of goods , services and capital .
as member for a town that looks on to the mediterranean , i hope that the euro-mediterranean partnership is given comparable resources for the period 2000-2006 to those given to the countries of central and eastern europe .
aid to mediterranean countries must be provided quickly and efficiently , in line with the european union ' s political priorities .
increasing the european parliament ' s participation in meda ' s decision-making process is another point that i believe to be crucial .
i also deplore the fact that , on an issue as important as changing the meda regulation , parliament only has the right to state its opinion by means of the consultation procedure .
with the amendments that we are proposing in this report , the meda programme will have simplified , decentralised and transparent implementation procedures .
the european commission has committed itself to increasing meda ' s staffing levels , with a view to reaching similar levels of human resources enjoyed by other major programmes such as phare and tacis .
amending the meda regulation with a view to improving the decision-making process and simplifying the procedure for implementing projects is an important stage in the euro-mediterranean partnership .
i shall do my best to ensure that the vote on the meda budget is another stage confirming the importance we attach to the euro-mediterranean partnership .
varela suanzes-carpegna reports ( a5-0194 and a5-0188 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for mr varela ' s report on the republic of guinea fisheries agreement , even if prawns and tuna will not look very favourably on this report which regulates catching them .
watson report ( a5-0201 / 2000 ) madam president , i would like to explain the votes on behalf of the eldr group .
our overriding objective was to get this very important report through as the first report communitarising european community immigration laws and as a matter of justice to third-country nationals .
we would have preferred beneficiaries of subsidiary protection to stay in as a matter of principle , because they are long-term legal residents , but we decided to assist the passage of the report .
madam president , i voted against the watson report , as did the whole of the group of the european people ' s party , not just because the amendments tabled by the group - of which i have the pleasure of being a member - were not adopted , but also because the pensioners are tired of seeing european union territory increasingly filling up with third-country nationals who do not have the means to live .
this document lays down that relatives of immigrants who live in certain european union member states may come and join their relatives - which is excellent and i agree with this - if the latter have an income equal to the minimum social security pension .
although the watson report on the proposal for a directive on family reunification is excessively liberal , it has just been adopted by the european parliament , with a large majority of 323 votes to 212 .
this vote also confirms what we have always said about communitising immigration policy by means of the treaty of amsterdam , which is being applied here to the particular case of family reunification by means of article 63 ( 3 ) of the treaty on european union : the transfer of decision-making powers from national level to european level is being used not to strengthen nations , as some have claimed in order to deceive voters , but instead to demolish their defences more completely .
the proposal for a directive on family reunification , as approved by the watson report , proclaims a community-level law on family reunification which , in legal terms , does not yet exist at this level and which , in our opinion , should not be made law .
this is a decision taken by the immigrant himself , and if he is received into that state , it is not his place to claim the right to bring in other people .
it appears then that recognition of the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society is useful when it serves to justify family reunification , but is no longer useful when it could serve to support european families .
the proposal for a directive approved by the watson report is not content to proclaim this non-existent law .
it gives the title ' applicant ' not only to legal immigrants but also to people who have refugee status .
moreover , the beneficiaries of family reunification are not just the applicant 's spouse and children under 18 , but also the unmarried partner who is in a stable relationship with the applicant , which will include homosexual couples when the member state ' s legislation treats them in the same way as married couples for legal purposes .
the directive also includes children of full age who cannot reasonably look after themselves , as well as the relatives in the ascending line of the applicant , their spouse , or even of their unmarried partner .
the draft directive ' s proposal concerning the right to family reunification after one year would not be any problem if , in common with other countries , denmark were to make such demands , as expressly laid down in the draft directive .
as matters stand , the one-year rule cannot , however , be practised in denmark without significant problems .
this right is currently only recognised by international legal instruments , specifically the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of 1950 .
family reunification enables the family unit to be protected and makes the integration of third-country nationals into member states easier .
they have produced a text that is close to the european commission ' s basic proposal which , in my opinion , is on the whole quite satisfactory .
those entitled to claim family reunification are : the spouse or non-married partner of the applicant ( including same-sex partners ) ; although it should be noted that the provision covering non-married partners only applies in member states where the position of non-married couples is comparable to that of married couples ; the children of the couple , whether they are married or not , and whether they are born within marriage , out of wedlock or are from a previous marriage ; the children of one of the spouses or partners are covered , on condition that the latter have actual custody and responsibility ; relatives in the ascending line , when these people are in the applicant ' s care as well as children of full age who are also dependants .
i speak on behalf of myself and my 28 colleagues from the british labour party .
we have been pleased to vote and to support this report even though , for a variety of reasons , the united kingdom government has exercised its right to opt out of this initiative .
there are , however , various practical points and issues regarding sovereignty which the uk takes very seriously and which means it is not appropriate or possible for the united kingdom to be included at this time .
however , for some time now , the proportion of immigrants from third countries has been increasing more rapidly than that of eu citizens from the 14 other member states .
our labour market depends on the presence of immigrants , although the most severe bottlenecks in our labour market are offset by cross-border commuters from france , belgium and germany .
these figures illustrate the interest my country has in a sound immigration policy , and , needless to say , in the important aspect of family reconciliation .
it is , of course , one of the commission ' s tasks , particularly following the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam , to propose measures on the entry into , and residence , in the european union , of third-country nationals , primarily with the undeniably admirable aim of bringing about an approximation of the legal provisions of individual member states on the conditions governing the admission and residence of third-country nationals .
the commission is right to comment , in its proposal for a directive on the right to reunification , that the presence of family members facilitates normal family life , thereby creating greater stability and enabling the individuals concerned to put roots down in the host country more successfully .
against this background , and notwithstanding the fact that some international agreements do not make provision for the right to family reunification , in principle , i still welcome the commission proposal for a community legal instrument in respect of family reunification .
above all , we must ensure that these provisions take the absorption capacity of each member state into account .
the rapporteur was entirely justified in withdrawing her name from the report , which was adopted in committee by 25 votes to 13 .
a directive of the kind proposed by the majority of the committee responsible is simply unworkable , dangerous and counterproductive .
my main objective in drafting this statement was to warn against carrying matters to excess , and the unforeseeable consequences thereof , but without wishing to compromise the principle of family unity .
the family is our society ' s most important building block , and we must therefore stand up for the right to a family life .
above all , children ' s right to be reunited with their parents must be protected , but the right to family reunification ought in certain cases ( for example , when there are serious health reasons ) to apply also to relatives in the ascending line , as well as to children who have come of age .
however , particularly from a german perspective , it represents an improvement in the situation of those refugees who are in a position to facilitate the legal entry of others , under the ' family members ' heading .
we are forced to hang around for half an hour after the votes to say that we are submitting our explanation of vote in writing .
i have been sitting here for almost half an hour waiting for my name to be called because i was informed by the services that i had to be present in order for my explanation of vote to be taken as written .
i personally feel that the best approach is to check that members are present for the vote so that they can leave if they are submitting their explanation in writing , and so that the explanations of vote in writing by members who have not taken part in the vote are not counted .
such a centre would serve to create a more proactive approach to medium and longer-term industrial change which would benefit all those concerned - commission , european parliament , social partners , government and local authorities .
such a centre could be incorporated into an established body or foundation through the enlargement of existing competences , as proposed in the pse resolution .
the huge industrial changes of recent years that have resulted from the increase in globalisation , new technologies and social transformations have given rise not only to economic growth and new production sectors but also to a growing number of company mergers , closures and relocations , which have resulted in the loss of local markets , unemployment , the degradation of social and labour protection systems , greater social exclusion and enormous human suffering .
it is equally urgent , however , that the commission should hasten the review of directive 94 / 45 / ec on the setting up of a european works council and regulation ( eec ) no 4064 / 89 , so as to ensure greater participation by workers ' organisations prior to decisions on the concentration and transfer of undertakings and a greater guarantee of protection and defence of workers ' rights .
it is clear that this policy goes hand in hand with the recent decisions taken by the council to prohibit all access to documents concerning defence and security policies .
the new order is placing new demands on people and on the less developed countries in order consolidate its supremacy .
veltroni report ( a5-209 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the veltroni report also and above all because , as representative of the pensioners ' party to the european parliament , i am aware that pensioners and elderly people spend a lot of time watching television .
madam president , i voted against the motion because this policy still contains worrying elements of statalism and welfarism .
the important aspects of the intervention of the european union are : 1 ) the global competitiveness of european industry , especially in relation to the usa , must be combined with a guarantee of pluralism and cultural diversity . 2 ) the increased effectiveness of the measures contained in directive 89 / 552 / aec on ' television without frontiers ' , concerning the promotion of european works . 3 ) the promotion of linguistic diversity . 4 ) the protection of minors using new programme control methods . 5 ) the creation of a european forum on cooperation in matters of transparency and the development of strategies to address market concentrations . 6 ) the support of the public audiovisual sector with the option of broadcasting on a global scale . 7 ) the promotion of an internal market for the cinema with the issue of a new directive .
the possibility of targeting intervention to provide strategic support for services of general interest : the public must be guaranteed access to audiovisual services on the basis of criteria such as universality , affordable costs and non-discrimination .
heaton-harris report ( a5-0199 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the heaton-harris report , which deals with the movement of university students within the european union .
the socrates programme entered its second phase with the decision of 24 january 2000 .
it must be admitted , however , that the participation rate is still low , given that this programme involves 18 member states .
this is what the commission inquiry has shown : only 1 % of students took part in erasmus mobility programmes in 1998 .
the survey does provide us with some answers .
we see that more than 57 % of erasmus students encounter financial difficulties .
many problems remain in the field of the recognition of qualifications .
as member for a border area , i regularly meet graduates who are distraught because the courses they have studied in another member state are not recognised .
we now hope that the commission and the member states will take the necessary steps to make the erasmus programme more accessible to students from economically less well-off groups , particularly by optimising coordination between national financial support for higher education and erasmus grants , with a view to promoting social equality in access to the programme and the widest possible take-up .
we cannot continue to accept that the overall participation rate in the programme is barely above 50 % , and that even so , some 57 % of erasmus students have been affected by worrying financial problems .
hence the need for measures to help achieve its initial objective of enabling 10 % of all community students to spend part of their degree course in another member state , and not just 1 % as happened in 1997 / 1998 , making it accessible to students from economically less well-off groups .
boumediene-thiery report ( a5-0207 / 2000 ) madam president , ' in cauda venenum ' as the romans used to say : ' the sting is in the tail ' .
despite the report ' s limitations in this respect and although we do not agree with the entire text , we did vote for the report because the measures it recommends represent progress in relation to the current deplorable situation of immigrant workers and migrant workers who are european union nationals .
i would add that the extreme right ' s fiercely racist opposition to this report confirms our views in this direction .
since 1957 , the treaty establishing the european economic community has contained provisions designed to guarantee the free movement of workers within community territory .
in 1990 , two directives ( 90 / 364 / eec and 90 / 365 / eec ) have extended the right of residence by defining general principles and rules for workers who have stopped work .
a third directive ( 93 / 96 / ec ) , adopted in 1993 , contains specific provisions for students .
since 1993 and the treaty of maastricht , any member state national has the right to move and reside freely in the european union ( article 14 of the ec treaty ) , and this right forms part of european citizenship ( article 18 ) .
the report we are discussing today seeks to provide an overview of the implementation of the directives on the right of residence of students , pensioners and other non-economically-active members of society as well as to study the special measures concerning european union citizens ' moving and settling for reasons of public order , security and health ( directive 64 / 221 / eec ) .
with regard to the first section , we must admit that although the directives in question have been transposed , in some cases painstakingly , into national legislation , many obstacles remain , which must be overcome by adopting a raft of specifically-targeted measures .
to mention one problem with which i am very familiar , that of students , i think it is crucial that we provide them with better information on their rights if they wish to study in another member state .
with regard to the second section , there are many problems in the way directive 64 / 221 / eec has been implemented .
the treaty allows member states to impose limits on the free movement of persons for reasons of public order , public security or public health .
in any event , these concepts must comply with the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms .
an overall redrafting of the existing texts will make this possible and will have the advantage of putting an end to the current inequalities of treatment in the various member states .
the approval of the report that the rapporteur has presented to parliament is heartening , but i cannot say the same for most of the proposals for amendments that have been raised in the house .
the principle of the free movement of persons , included in the treaty of rome fifty years ago , still encounters many difficulties in its practical implementation .
as mentioned in the report , the implementation of the directives on the right of residence of students and retired people ( 90 / 364 , 90 / 365 and 93 / 96 ) is clearly unsatisfactory , and the same is true for the directive on migrant workers .
in addition , as the rapporteur points out , there are at present millions of third-country nationals residing lawfully in the european union who often find themselves deprived of the right to free movement and residence .
hence it is essential that the member states and the commission take the necessary steps to ensure that the rights of migrant workers are upheld and to improve their situation .
however , i am unable to support this report in principle , because it takes advantage of the situation , with a view to demanding freedom of movement and establishment for all third-country nationals who have the right of residence in a member state .
there are millions of third-country nationals who fit this description , and it is completely unacceptable to saddle other member states with the consequences of giving freedom of movement to millions of people , without taking the individual member states ' absorption capacity into account .
many people have doubts about admitting malta to the european union .
if the demands made in the boumediene-thiery report in respect of freedom of movement for third-country nationals were to be met , this would have a far more serious impact than if we were to grant the citizens of the candidate countries in central and eastern europe freedom of movement and establishment , without a transitional period , which is something no one in their right mind would consider .
if we really want to fan the flames of xenophobia within the community , then i can think of no better way than to support the excessive and unreasonable proposals contained in the boumediene-thiery report , which thank god , was adopted in committee by only 23 votes in favour to 15 votes against .
it is asking too much of the other member states as it is , for the german government to allow several million third-country nationals resident on its territory to hold german citizenship in addition to their own .
but you are entitled to correct your words .
mr president , colleagues were shouting and so it was very difficult to hear what i was saying .
mr gorostiaga atxalandabaso , the plenary does not adopt the verbatim report of proceedings .
the liberalisation of the community telecommunications market reached a climax in 1998 with the full liberalisation of services and infrastructures in the majority of european union countries .
the expansion of the telecommunications and internet sectors is creating large numbers of new jobs both within those sectors and in other sectors , and bringing an increase in efficiency .
over 500 000 jobs have been created in the mobile telephony sector alone over the last five years .
in july 2000 , the commission proposed a new package on electronic communications , which particularly stresses the need to facilitate high-speed internet access - while keeping costs down - and to develop a legislative framework which is not too burdensome for operators in the sector .
the possibilities for commission intervention in the field of competition policy are clearly defined by articles 81 and 82 of the treaty and by the merger regulation .
at the moment , there appears to be a shift on the european market from consolidation operations to convergence operations , and this is borne out by the alliances recently examined by the commission , such as the vodaphone-vivendi deal , and those which are currently under examination , such as the merger between america on line and time warner . .
the merger was subsequently abandoned by the parties in question but the conditions imposed by the commission nevertheless served as evidence of its intention to protect the liberalisation of national markets from concentrations of dominating carriers .
on 28 june last , the commission refused to allow the merger between two us companies , worldcom and sprint .
combining the extensive internet networks and the vast client bases of worldcom and sprint would have produced such a large company that the new company would have been in a position to dictate the conditions of access to its internet networks and its clients , which would have been to the detriment of the client and created barriers to innovation .
another example of action taken to avert the risk of an operator gaining control of innovation is that of the vodaphone / mannesmann decisions and , subsequently , the vodaphone / vivendi / canal plus decisions .
the commission had to assess the implications of the mergers on the emerging markets and authorised the parties to go ahead in both cases during the initial stages , once they had proposed to abide by a limited number of commitments .
the vodaphone / mannesmann operation caused problems on the emerging pan-european market of seamless mobile telephony services for multinationals .
in order to eliminate these competition problems , vodaphone proposed to allow non-discriminatory access to its integrated network and allow competitors to provide similar services during the period in which they were developing their own networks .
shortly afterwards , the commission had to examine the case of vis-a-vis , the joint venture made up of vodaphone and attach , vivendi and canal plus , to develop an internet access portal .
vis-a-vis was going to produce a multiple-access internet portal for the whole of europe , providing the clients of the companies involved with the choice of a range of web services accessible through the clients ' pcs , mobile phones or set top boxes .
the commission 's study revealed that the joint venture would have caused problems for the emerging national tv internet access markets and the emerging national and pan-european mobile phone internet access markets .
mr president , as the examples of the cases of which i have just given a brief outline show , community competition law plays a crucial role in ensuring that the benefits of liberalisation and innovation do , in effect , filter down to the european citizens .
the role of community rules on merger control is to prevent the creation or consolidation of dominant positions , which would hold back technological and economic progress , and to ensure that the european union consumers are able to benefit from this progress .
as we have learned from the experience of these initial years of liberalisation and careful control to preserve competition , workers are also among those who benefit , as shown by the figure i gave just now as an example .
in the telecom field , it is clear that market share can change hands much more quickly than in some of the major industries that have been regulated in the past .
we understand from the peers group report that you are going to be awarded an extra 92 posts .
mr president , could i start my contribution by offering my congratulations to commissioner monti and his officials for the scrupulous and professional way in which they dealt with the proposed mci worldcom - sprint merger .
this really is a dilemma for parliament and for the commission .
i would like to take up the subject just touched upon by the previous speaker , namely the transatlantic aspects of telecoms liberalisation and particularly paragraph 6 and 7 of the draft resolution , which refers to the unfortunate initiative by senator hollings to restrict the transfer of licences to telecoms companies which are more than 25 % state-owned .
this seems an ironic lurch towards a protectionist position at the very time when here in europe and in this parliament we are about to embark upon a debate on the latest raft of measures which , in my view , would make the european union telecoms market the most liberalised and the most open market in the world going way beyond many if not all of the commitments into which we entered in gatt and the wto .
whilst i have some philosophical sympathy with senator hollings and his colleagues who consider that state-owned companies have some hidden and sometimes explicit advantages over their privately-owned competitors , the way in which congress in the united states is trying to address this issue is contrary to both the spirit and the letter of us multilateral commitments .
mr president , commissioner , i remember how , around the middle of last year , when the merger of the american companies time warner and america online was announced , there were people who described that event as an early beginning of the third millennium as far as its cultural and technological aspects were concerned .
in the united states , 40 % of homes had access to that network of all networks known as the internet , whilst in the european union , that figure hardly reached 20 % , and that percentage was only surpassed in a few of the union ' s member states , which were more advanced in terms of technological development .
we must provide all citizens with access to this new information society .
in europe , we must ensure that there is security , because that is a human right .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we welcome the fact that the commission and the us department of justice have blocked the proposed mci worldcom - sprint merger , and were also delighted to hear that the us government is not inclined to approve the aol - time warner deal .
however , mergers also have an impact on employment and social cohesion .
mr president , at the outset i would like to say that i welcome the commission 's publication of the new telecom directives and regulations on 12 july .
this is part of the ongoing framework programme to improve the quality of telecommunications services in europe .
eu leaders pointed to the need to improve our overall telecommunications services .
certainly , the auctioning of these licences in germany and britain has secured large amounts of money for the respective national exchequers , but who ultimately is going to pay for these phones ?
in addition , it involves , as we know very well from the echelon case and others , the possibility of monitoring , and thus the possibility of the monitoring of people , which has also become a very important business .
quite the opposite , as through them these companies can create a dependency , as that part of this business happens in people ' s brains .
as mr clegg said , there are obviously problems too between the european union and the united states , such as the restriction on mergers in the case of deutsche telecom , which obviously has to be looked into .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , mr clegg has already expressed his broad support , on behalf of the liberal group , for the commission ' s proposals , and his concern about certain specific aspects relating to the united states , as has just been mentioned .
i would like to highlight the concern about an aspect which appears in the liberal group ' s original motion for a resolution , whose first section refers to the need to reject any political interference in the commission ' s competition policy .
if we apply this to the issue in question , the telecommunications sector , it is a well-founded concern given the cases which arose in spain , a few months ago , involving the merger of telefonica with a dutch company , in portugal and in other sectors in france .
mr president , the records for company mergers have now been broken in the telecommunications sector , with mega-mergers in europe and on the other side of the atlantic .
the commission banned the merger between mc worldcom and sprint solely because it might threaten free competition .
at a time , however , when the european union is making employment a priority , mergers should also be seen in light of their consequences for employment and land-use planning .
may i welcome the commissioner to parliament today on behalf of all of us .
it is perhaps the most important task of the commission to maintain free competition and make the market work across the european union .
in the telecoms context it is vital to ensure that consumers get all the benefits the free market can offer them , particularly the low-cost internet access .
in future we shall want to give the competition mergers department , more work , because the market should play an even bigger role in telecoms than it does at the moment .
i hope you will apply competition law and merger law toughly , but always ensure that you look at each merger on its own merits .
however , market opening in the telecommunications sector itself , demonstrates that market opening can bring benefits for consumers in the form of falling prices and access to new services .
above all , though , the commission must use its efforts to modernise competition law , particularly in respect of the regulation on merger control , as an opportunity to adopt an extremely rigorous approach to its reform undertakings too .
politicians and trust busters , such as mr monti , must not interfere in this current development in the market other than when the commission has proper grounds to believe that a particular merger may cause distortions to the competition situation , so harming the interests of consumers .
mr rapkay , you may be sure that nobody in this chamber wants monopolies or oligopolies in the market .
on the other hand , the commission must actively monitor whether free access to markets is being realised in all sectors , as stated in point 3 of parliament ' s joint motion for a resolution .
global competition must be examined , and there have been problems recently , at least with regard to the deutsche telekom - voice stream deal .
mr harbour , you identified one crucial point , namely preventing market trends from disrupting innovation .
that is why we insist so much on rigorous enforcement of competition policy in the light of the market situation in europe , irrespective of the nationality of companies .
we would have done the same in another case in which one company was european ( pechiney ) and the other north american-canadian ( alcan ) , but the merger was withdrawn .
in addition , we took similar action in the recent mci worldcom-sprint case , where both companies were american .
moreover , the bill is , in our view , clearly incompatible with the usa 's wto obligations and other basic telecommunications agreements and the commission through my colleague pascal lamy has certainly made this very clear to our american counterparts .
the commission also resolutely opposes any such legislation in our member states .
the deadline for the commission 's decision is 24 october .
the hearing on this merger is taking place today and tomorrow in brussels .
we expressed our concerns on 22 august when we issued our statement of objections to the parties .
there is nothing else i can add at this stage .
the auctions will increase the number of mobile telephone operators in the union .
it has been pointed out that the sums paid to eu governments to obtain licences are too high and that making it necessary for the operators to recoup their initial investment would lead to higher prices for consumers and perhaps limit the development of new advanced mobile telephone services .
but this is not a competition law issue as such , whereas trying to introduce restrictions on competition in order to make it easier to recoup the cost would be sanctioned by competition law .
so even though member states are free to choose either a beauty contest , an auction system or a mixture of both , they must still comply with competition law and the sector-specific telecommunications legislation on licensing and with the state aid rules .
in this context i could mention that the competition dg is currently looking into a complaint against the netherlands , jointly with the information society dg .
we have to examine situations case by case .
size can sometimes create problems .
even smaller operators can create competition problems and then we have to intervene .
i must be very brief at this stage .
however the commission welcomes the involvement of workers ' representatives in the merger control process .
representatives have a right to be heard at all stages of the procedure .
i am increasingly convinced that rigorous competition is a key component of a social market economy , be it in the traditional sectors or in the new sectors and - i stress both adjectives - social and market economies .
thank you very much , mr monti , for your detailed reply .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow , thursday .
human cloning the next item is the commission statement on human cloning .
it is becoming increasingly important to anticipate these ethical questions so that they can then be integrated into a broader dialogue between science and society .
therapeutic cloning , or to be more precise , the use for therapeutic purposes of embryo stem cells obtained by cloning techniques is one example of the ethical questions raised by the rapid scientific advances that have been made in the life sciences .
the report by a group of british experts , published on 16 august , recognises the considerable importance of research into human embryo stem cells and their therapeutic application .
as president prodi announced recently in a press statement , the commission , far from remaining silent , hopes that an enlightened debate will ensue , in close cooperation with the european parliament .
legislation and gaps in legislation vary greatly , which reflects the range of very different sensibilities in the countries of the european union .
community action in the field of biotechnological research is nevertheless increasingly based on the most rigorous fundamental ethical principles , out of respect for national sensibilities .
this legislation does not allow for the patenting of reproductive human cloning and the sale of embryos or parts of the human body .
i should like to emphasise that the ethical aspects are , as a matter of course , taken into account when proposals are assessed and that a thorough ethical review is undertaken for proposals involving more sensitive ethical issues .
the commission looks forward to hearing the opinion of the european group on ethics this november on the use of adult stem cells .
in more general terms , the high level group of experts on life sciences , recently established at my behest , must help us to construct a genuine dialogue on the life sciences between the world of research and society at large .
the symposium , which is being held by this group on 6 and 7 november in brussels and to which , of course , i invite all members of this parliament who may be interested , represents an important stage in establishing this dialogue .
comments by mr verheugen concerning enlargement the next item is the communication on mr verheugen ' s statement on enlargement .
there is a pressing need for this new page in the history of the union to be completed , in accordance with the objectives set by the european council and the commission itself and frequently presented before this house .
the union ' s first act of generosity , and i must stress that once again , must be to be ready to open its doors to new members by january 2003 .
in order to put our house in order , therefore , the union ' s main concern must be to agree in nice , at the end of the year , upon a high-quality institutional reform which will prevent our system from being watered down .
for my part , i fear that the public is not yet sufficiently convinced .
in particular , the national procedures for ratifying enlargement are purely national issues .
i have always found parliament , before which i sit today , to be fully committed to doing just this : explaining to our fellow citizens , over and over again , that enlargement is not a threat but a historic opportunity in all respects , and , above all , a historic step towards establishing peace in our continent .
in this particular case , i am entirely confident that gunter verheugen fully supports the commission ' s policy , which this house has approved on many occasions .
i cited the treaty of maastricht as an example of this , and not enlargement .
finally , i also said that the german constitution makes no provision for this .
since the prodi commission took office , the outcome of the enlargement negotiations has been positive .
i might point out that it will only be possible to make this kind of headway in close cooperation with the member states and the european parliament .
i also warmly commend the european parliament and its members for their positive role in the efforts being made to raise awareness of this historic project amongst the people of europe .
we need to have a wide-ranging , democratic debate on this historic project .
and as president prodi has already said , it makes perfect sense for the accession treaties to be ratified in the individual member states in accordance with their respective legal systems .
but i am extremely grateful to president prodi for the fact that he deemed the occurrence so important as to address us in person today .
you would not be in office if we had not given you our blessing .
we are on the commission ' s side and would ask you to take note of this and not accuse us of opposing the commission in principle , and only finding ourselves unanimous in one respect .
i simply refuse to accept this . ( applause ) i refuse to accept this because i want people to understand that the work we do is in support of the commission .
in so doing you have made it clear , once and for all - as the president of the commission said - that you are no longer advocating that a referendum of the kind you have in your country , should form the basis for enlargement of the european union .
i am delighted that we have been able to reach a consensus on this issue and discuss it , because the issue of enlargement concerns the future of the european continent in the twenty-first century .
mr verheugen , i would urge you to take this to heart .
in principle , we are on the commission ' s side when it comes to the future development of europe , the unity of our continent , and enlargement , because the people of central europe want to be part of the community of values that is the european union .
naturally , each member state will decide on the accession of new states according to its own constitutional law , and the same applies to germany .
but precisely because the german constitution makes no provision for a referendum of this kind , your comments were interpreted as a call for a referendum to be introduced , and as such , as an attempt to postpone the eastward enlargement of the european union .
we reject any attempt to put new obstacles in the way of accession .
the only way to achieve this aim is to impress on the people that the size of the task is commensurate with the size of the opportunity presented to us all in europe .
our generation of politicians , ladies and gentlemen , yours and mine , now has the opportunity , for the first time in a thousand years , to bring all the people of europe together in one community , based on free will , peace and democracy .
however , as the commissioner responsible for enlargement , he does not now have the luxury of speaking in a personal capacity .
the fundamental problem when we give mixed messages or perhaps poorly expressed or ill-judged messages is that we risk conveying the wrong message .
the commissioner 's relationship with our parliament and its committees has always been constructive and positive and it should remain so .
the council has been incapable of proposing a concrete enlargement plan and in this it really has to rally its forces .
it is certainly not quite the right time to contemplate this , as we will really have to have the courage to tell people that eight years have passed already since the present applicant countries were invited to join the european union .
eight years have passed , but hopefully we will be bold enough to tell the people that this process is now far advanced and is irreversible .
in other words , people ' s direct rights are vitally necessary in general , but in this case i do not think we can start to vote on enlargement now .
madam president , opinion differs in my group as to the proposed enlargement of the european union .
personally , i see it as an historic necessity and opportunity , which must not be put at risk either by rashness , undemocratic procedures , and bureaucratic or national small-mindedness , or politicians ' lack of consideration for the social dimension .
in july , you dropped some very vague hints about the difficulties .
but a german referendum must never be allowed to determine the weal and woe of enlargement .
there has been precious little sign of this so far , either in the debate on a charter of fundamental rights , in eu reform undertakings , or in the accession negotiations .
then you will have us all on your side .
madam president , president prodi said ' public opinion is not sufficiently convinced ' and other members have said the same thing .
therefore , if we want enlargement to work to the ultimate benefit of present and future member citizens , we will have to start involving the citizens in political and institutional processes , not unconditionally as you said in your speech , president prodi , for there is one condition and that is that enlargement becomes a genuine benefit both for those citizens who are currently members of our european union and for those who , we hope , will join us as soon as possible .
it was , of course , a mistake , which has caused problems for the commission and for all of us as the european union , in the face of the legitimate hopes of the peoples of eastern europe who , after 50 years of communist dictatorship , which we did nothing to combat , now , i believe , have the right to be part of the european union .
then we want to achieve enlargement without spending a penny more than our current budget , which is already less than sufficient for the 15 .
this process was concluded as early as the end of 1993 .
if there are no further interventions , this debate is closed and we shall continue the debate on human cloning .
i wish to thank commissioner verheugen once more and to welcome back commissioner busquin .
human cloning ( continuation ) mr president , commissioner , i believe that every person who is motivated by faith in man , right from the very first moment of his existence , must be guaranteed the unconditional respect which is morally due to the human person in its entirety .
it is immoral to use human embryos for research , for those very operations to which the president of the united states , bill clinton , has allocated public funding , those operations which have been approved by tony blair ' s british government .
lastly , we propose that a temporary committee be set up to study these issues .
mr president , article 1 of the draft charter of fundamental rights states that the dignity of the person must be respected and protected .
the speed at which scientific research progresses is sometimes difficult for average humans , and even for politicians , to comprehend .
certain political groups in this parliament are proposing a vote on a supposedly ' urgent ' motion for a resolution .
this morning ' s discussions on the monitoring centre for industrial change showed that this parliament is capable of voting on everything and its opposite in the space of a few minutes .
this raft of issues concerns various standing committees in this parliament .
we are prepared to withdraw our motion for a resolution if the other groups do the same and to try to work constructively together .
we do not want a quick , ill-conceived reaction to events that have taken place in my country and the announcement made by the british government .
it is only a proposal , not a decision , and it follows a very careful and considered report by the chief medical officer 's expert group on cloning .
the british government has recognised that in its proposal because it will be the subject of a free vote , possibly later this year .
i believe , although it is not my party 's government , that the british government has been measured and considered in its response .
the second view considers that the right of those suffering from serious and hitherto incurable illnesses to be able to benefit from the potential of medical research takes precedence over any other consideration .
the idea behind this decision is that therapeutic cloning , that is , the cloning of embryonic cells that are undifferentiated from human embryos available for research and production is a promising way forward .
i feel that it is extremely important to make two observations at this point .
it is probably fair to criticise this convention for its vagueness on a number of points , but in article 18 , it states quite clearly that the production of human embryos for research purposes is prohibited .
upholding the ban on human cloning , rather than establishing it in the first place - i am talking about upholding the ban - is crucial in this respect .
mr president , to return to the matter in hand , we are aware that , in the face of new ideas - even new ideas which seem promising in terms of treatments for illnesses affecting millions and millions of people - the normal , conventional reaction always kicks in : to ban , to crusade , to shout ' barbarians ! ' without even stopping to ask whether the ban can work , whether it would work or whether we are in a position to ensure that it is observed or to monitor it .
we want to try and reduce the gap between science and politics , to endeavour to govern new phenomena secularly together with the pragmatism of experimentation and successive approximations , without immediately launching into prohibitionist campaigns which we already know to be ineffective .
i believe that it is our responsibility to set the limits , or take on board the risk of setting the limits , of successive approximations without trying to impose any ethical principles - in the case of those who have any - or principles of civilisation .
having stated these general positions of principle , the debate is only beginning on the attitude we should adopt towards biotechnological research , both in order to fully weigh up its ethical implications , but without running the risk of slowing down work which is likely to bring about improvements in human health .
as if this would explain and justify everything .
i would urgently call on the british government to reconsider its far-reaching decision and would ask the british parliament not to back this proposal .
hitherto , all those in positions of responsibility within the european union were agreed that the cloning of human beings should be rejected out of hand .
commissioner , over the past few days , a number of articles in the press , as well as your speech , have given rise to some confusion regarding the fifth research framework programme , and especially concerning the patenting directive .
we must appoint the best experts to advise the council and ensure that there is consistency in the legislation across the member states .
the ethical issues and the need to protect human dignity , in particular , are so important that we cannot afford to leave them at the mercy of fragmented , possibly even contradictory pieces of legislation introduced by individual member states .
we must get to grips with all the ethical issues raised by medicine , technology and science , as a matter of urgency .
the appropriate parliamentary committee must therefore get down to work as quickly as possible .
our vote will set this in train .
putting an end to cloning techniques in europe will only shift research elsewhere , for example to the united states or , in the worst case , to countries whose ethical standards are worse than those in the european union .
mr president , we have the awful situation where one eu member state permits therapeutic cloning , which we have always been critical of .
the people of the european union are expecting the european parliament to take a stance on this .
the arbitrary distinction between reproductive and non-reproductive cloning is semantic sleight of hand .
that is why parliament must use its power to act .
this is why the european union ' s action in this field must be guided by major fundamental principles alone .
indeed , it is no coincidence that the 1998-2002 fifth research and technological development framework programme excludes the financing of projects which involve the cloning of embryos for reproductive purposes and does not provide for funding research into cloning for therapeutic purposes .
in respect for the differences of opinion on the matter , we feel that it is vital to lay down ethical standards based on respect for human dignity in the biotechnology sector .
it would have been interesting to hear their arguments too , because i am quite sure that they must have had a few thoughts on the matter .
it would be entirely appropriate to discuss this kind of issue during this debate , because we have the privilege of being in the company of delegates from the four corners of the european union .
but i also want my opinion to be respected .
the next stage will be commercial exploitation , which our own bio-patenting directive allows for .
fact : human reproductive cloning is banned in the uk .
there is no intention to change this and the uk industry has no intention of carrying out human reproductive cloning now or in the future .
the research use of embryonic stem cells is a short-term response to a scientific need to discover ways of reprogramming adult cells .
fact : stem cell research is tightly regulated under a stringent act of parliament by the highly respected and rigorous human fertilisation and embryology authority .
it would perhaps be a good idea if other member states were to have something similar .
fact : there have recently been interesting advances in adult stem cell research , but there still remain significant disadvantages compared with the unique characteristics of embryonic stem cells .
rightly or wrongly , the uk and the us legislation have permitted this type of research for ten years and many benefits have resulted .
and after consulting world-wide for many months the donaldson report recommends extending such research for therapeutic purposes .
it should also be pointed out that national legislation on this issue varies enormously , which can lead to uncontrolled practices , but these practices , as mrs grossetete said just now , may make us question the value some countries place on the reality of the principle of respect for human life from the embryonic stage , stated in article 18 of the european convention on human rights , which forbids the production of embryos for human purposes .
secondly , i think that in order to hold this debate , parliament should create an ad hoc parliamentary committee which , could , in the first instance , quickly take the initiative of hearing experts from all disciplines , both from europe and from across the atlantic .
this debate must also , however , be held in the public domain .
i simply wanted to clarify this point , mr liese , since you asked the question .
with regard to the debate , on the other hand , as i said in my introductory speech , the commission would like to enter into a debate with parliament on these issues which are , as we have seen , very complex and very interesting .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0535 / 2000 ) .
firstly , it is clear that there has been a human resources problem in the public health directorate in luxembourg , which deals with this work .
this situation was aggravated last summer when a decision was taken in the light of the report of the committee of independent experts to end the contract with the technical assistance office which helped in the implementation of this programme .
secondly , a large number of small projects are implemented under the anti-drugs programme , placing additional strain on the already limited human resources at our disposal .
during the last five years , the average size of projects in terms of co-financing granted by the commission has been eur 180,000 .
the commission 's proposal for a new public health framework and strategy highlights the need for clearer objectives and more efficient management with a greater impact on key priorities .
as the budgetary authority repeatedly stresses , we must match resources and priorities more realistically in the future .
the inexperience of contractors regarding financial control requirements will continue to necessitate significant advice and other inputs from already limited staff resources .
the public health directorate intends to carry out an information campaign to help contractors to understand the commission 's procedures and requirements more clearly .
on the issue of red tape , the departments concerned are currently reviewing their documentary requirements with the aim of simplifying and speeding up payment procedures without neglecting the necessary financial control measures .
i have encountered problems of this kind before , not just in the drugs sphere , but with many other partners that work with the commission and seek co-financing .
with regard to the size of projects , since 1996 a total of 149 projects have been selected for over eur 25 million , with an average amount of eur 180 000 per project .
it does not always follow that smaller projects are better than bigger projects , but if human resources are applied efficiently it will be for the betterment of the projects concerned .
what i say now is no reflection at all on the commissioner himself , but i hope that he would accept with me that science must inform our decisions on risk and how to manage it .
that principle only holds good if the decisions are scientifically irreproachable .
that information was passed on to the commission , since it is one of the eu institutions responsible for risk management .
the commission made a clear assessment of this issue .
my colleague , commissioner liikanen , has adopted a more long-term approach to the whole issue of phthalates and placticisers in toys and so on .
as the author is not present , question no 43 lapses .
question no 44 by ( h-0688 / 00 ) : subject : water needs in the middle east the constantly increasing demand for water in the middle east is set to play a significant part in relation to the outlook for cooperation and understanding among the peoples of the region .
water is indeed one of the main issues of the middle east peace process , not only in the negotiations between israel and the palestinians but also between israel and syria .
as a concrete contribution we have committed another eur 4 million in 1999 for the completion of the regional water data banks .
the commission 's policy aims at helping the region to achieve a sustainable management of the scarce water resources in combination with assistance to explore new resources .
estimates suggest that in the overall mediterranean region agriculture absorbs over two thirds of total national water consumption , while accounting for only one third of gnp and labour .
indeed the euro-mediterranean foreign ministers conference in stuttgart in 1999 decided to make water a priority for the partnership .
as a first result the eur 40 million action plan adopted by the euro-mediterranean ministerial conference on local water management in turin in october 1999 would provide a further opportunity for cooperation in this sector .
commissioner , what initiatives are you going to take to formulate rules of international law in the management of water resources so as to eliminate any hotbeds of local and regional political antagonism , seeds of crises and a peculiar type of imperialism ?
the most recent example is community support of eur 5 million in grants for the project management of the greater amman water sector improvement programme , plus a substantial loan from the european investment bank .
the european commission contributed eur 1.2 million towards its implementation .
the euro-mediterranean conference on water management in marseilles on 25 and 26 of november 1996 was organised on the initiative of the european commission and the french government , with the support of the city of marseilles .
second part i agree that it is a matter for concern that rules on the transport of animals are not being sufficiently enforced in certain areas .
while member states are responsible for the day-to-day enforcement of community legislation , the food and veterinary office of my directorate-general undertakes specific control and inspection missions to check that member states apply community legislation in an effective and a uniform manner .
i will shortly present a report to the council and the european parliament on the implementation in the member states of the community legislation on the protection of animals during the last quarter of this year .
the report will show that member states currently have difficulties in fully implementing community legislation .
i would like to highlight this and ask what sort of timetable is now in place for real action , taking into account the fact that we have to put our own house in order before new member states join the eu ?
the commission believes that the most effective way to achieve a widespread improvement in animal welfare standards is to work towards an international consensus .
the long-distance transport of horses has been discussed with heads of veterinary services in the central and east european countries currently negotiating accession to the union .
so i can give an assurance that this issue is high on the list of priorities in my service and we will be monitoring it closely and pursuing it actively .
given the pets ' passport project at european level and a right for pets now to move freely within the european union as a result , does the commission have any legal competence to intervene and protect animal welfare and , in particular , these domestic pets in germany , of which there will be a needless slaughter potentially and possibly even extinction of a fine breed of british dogs ?
mr tannock , you may express your opinion in writing on a bilateral basis or you may do it in public in accordance with the rules of procedure , and the commissioner will reply .
thank you very much , mr byrne , for your cooperation with parliament this afternoon .
however , the president also sought to situate the commission 's action in these areas , as in others , in the context of the treaties ' revision .
he acknowledged that competence for action concerning children remains primarily with the member states given the lack of a clear legal basis in the treaty for the community to safeguard children 's rights in terms that go beyond the existing framework .
in the current framework the european commission has already undertaken a considerable number of initiatives to protect children 's rights as in the daphne and stop programmes which fall under my competence .
the commission is also pursuing action in the social and educational field with a view to improving the situation of children .
the draft article concerning the protection of children incorporates the main principles of the new york convention as the right to such protection and care as is necessary for their well-being and consideration .
although all the member states have ratified the convention , its implementation varies widely and the views of the member states on how to best protect children 's rights diverge to a considerable extent .
it is my conviction that such an evaluation might represent a useful contribution for the participation of the union in the special session of the united nations general assembly in september 2001 .
the commission believes that its ongoing actions in favour of children , its active advocacy for an appropriate inclusion in the charter of fundamental rights and its support for this idea of having an evaluation as described represents evidence of its commitment to this important subject .
as you know , i am a great admirer of yours and i am sure that you were as uncomfortable repeating your answer today as i was hearing it .
having listened to the extent of plans that the commission has in relation to animal welfare , i can only wish that they had similar plans in relation to the welfare of children .
since we are talking about that my approach is that we should have a study to evaluate how the united nations convention on children 's rights has been implemented in our member states .
this study should be completed in time to be used as basis for the union 's participation in the united nations special general assembly next year .
as you know , the responsibility for protecting the dignity of children falls , above all , within the competence of the member states .
question no 47 by ( h-0606 / 00 ) : subject : absence of passport controls in the schengen area in the commission 's view , how has the absence of passport controls under the schengen agreement worked during the european football championship in the light of the mass arrests made in brussels and charleroi ?
it should also be borne in mind that for the duration of euro 2000 , the belgian and dutch governments made use of a safeguard clause in article 2 ( 2 ) of the schengen agreement , which lays down that , when public order or national security are threatened - and in my view , the fear generated by these cases of ' hooliganism ' certainly meets these criteria - a member state may decide that , for a limited period , national border controls , adapted specially for the situation , can be implemented , even at internal borders within the schengen area .
these were targeted checks , specifically based on information supplied by the member states in the framework of police cooperation , concerning supporters likely to pose a threat to public order .
establishing controls at the external borders and , temporarily , at the internal borders of the schengen area is not the same as closing a border or systematically turning away people who wish to enter the territory in order to attend a football match .
this is why an assessment of the measures for cooperation between the authorities of the member states concerned is already underway and why this joint exercise aims to learn the lessons of euro 2000 , in order to see how police and judicial cooperation can in the future be improved in terms of combating hooliganism .
i supported portugal as well as i could there at king baudouin ' s stadium in brussels , but france won in the end in a match in which it has to be said that france had the better team .
as the commissioner surely knows , the nordic countries are to become signatories of the schengen agreement in march of next year .
i cannot give you a fixed timetable , that is , i cannot guarantee that these documents will be adopted before the expected date for the integration of the nordic passport union into the schengen free movement area .
question no 48 will be replied to in writing .
the portuguese presidency submitted a draft council regulation at the end of june 2000 .
this would make it possible to meet the deadline of having the european police college in place by 2001 , as mentioned in the commission 's scoreboard on justice and home affairs .
it will function in this form for three years .
mr president , i would like to thank the commissioner for his precise answer and substantial input in this matter .
but we intend to promote our own initiative in the area just to make sure that we will have all the necessary information to take a further step ahead as soon as possible .
question no 50 will be replied to in writing .
common social policy objectives must be defined and attained in order to ensure that the process of increasing integration and the forthcoming enlargement is supported by the european public .
but our objectives can be achieved using methods such as social dialogue , the structural funds , especially the european social fund , which has a large budget , mainstreaming , political analysis , research and , finally , legislation .
the first is to combat social exclusion and the second concerns future cooperation on issues of social protection and pension systems .
commissioner , thank you very much for providing these clarifications .
allow me to express the wish that is dearest to my heart in the form of an additional question : what special measures will the commission endeavour to take in the future , with a view to working towards the harmonisation of the social security systems , professional qualifications and the social dimension in all areas ?
however , i believe we must convince the people of the european union that freedom of establishment is not a hollow expression which ultimately applies in full to tourists , rather , they must understand that for people who work , or have worked - firstly in terms of the insurance system and then in terms of the pensions system - freedom of establishment is a reality , and not a hollow expression .
mr president , commissioner , the harmonisation of social security systems would require harmonisation of the financing of social security , or , in practice , the harmonisation of taxation , not just with regard to its technical framework , but also its levels of taxation .
for that reason i believe that a policy like this of taking small steps at a time is quite in order in this matter , and i would also ask how one aspect of this one-step-at-a-time policy is going , in other words the directive on a single market for additional pensions .
within the framework of this dialogue , on 30 march 2000 i met members of the platform of european ngos and a dialogue took place , which focused on two categories of issues .
but i have one specific question : why are only eight or nine ngos , as far as my information is concerned , funded through these two lines ?
my information is that they are being pushed into project funding and 18 environmental ngos , for instance , are receiving from the commission funding towards their running costs .
we know that in this social field there is a huge number of ngos and it is very difficult for the commission dg to know with which of them they can cooperate .
this is why we must solve the problem of the issue of representativeness , and the issue of the network to be established at european level .
the action plan for employment for 2000 contains these undertakings .
as the author is not present , question no 54 lapses .
questions nos 55 , 56 and 57 will be replied to in writing .
the file , accompanied by a request for a ' certificate of specific character ' , was submitted by the whole virgin honey association and forwarded to the commission by the italian ministry for the environment on 8 september 1995 .
i am very grateful for your precision , commissioner but i have to say that i am not satisfied .
i am aware that , since then , the common position on the directive has been redefined and that parliament is expecting to hold a debate on the subject .
it will then no longer be a problem for us to grant the protection sought by the italian government , or the region concerned .
question no 59 by ( h-0609 / 00 ) : subject : eu funding to coillte according to a european court of justice ruling of august 1999 , coillte has illegitimately received eu loss of income forestry grants under forestry funding regulation 2080 / 92 amounting to  6.5 million from 1993 to 1999 .
i would like to point out that there has been no judgement from the court of justice on this specific issue .
the commission will therefore refuse to co-finance grants paid out , backdated to 1 august 1996 .
what is interesting as well as that the chairman , ray macsharry is a former european commissioner for agriculture and he is still refusing to acknowledge the fact that coillte is a public entity and that it is not entitled to such payments .
however , the findings are not binding on the commission , as we have already mentioned on more than one occasion here in parliament .
as the author is not present , question no 60 lapses .
the commission ' s reform proposals will ultimately serve to implement the european agricultural model in these sectors .
we want to bring the economic , social and environmental goals in these sectors into line with each other .
after all , it is precisely this issue that the enlargement negotiations are focussing on .
question no 62 by ( h-0633 / 00 ) : subject : subsidies for growing tobacco tobacco growing in the european union is subsidised to the tune of millions of euros per year while at the same time over half a million eu citizens die each year of diseases caused by tobacco .
i would remind the house that the commission presented parliament and the council with a report on the common market organisation of tobacco as early as 1996 .
however , this was also because there was evidence to show that subsidising tobacco cultivation has practically no effect on tobacco consumption , and thus on the risk to eu citizens ' health .
this led to radical reform of the tobacco sector in 1998 .
the provisions laid down in the tobacco market organisation can also be supplemented within the framework of the support measures for rural development .
on a final note , i would just like to say that the commission will of course assess the reform measures taken .
we will provide the european parliament with a report on the functioning of the amended market organisation by 1 april 2002 .
in so doing , we are giving some families the opportunity to draw an income from this type of cultivation .
there will be no decline in tobacco consumption until we have succeeded in driving this message home to consumers .
in economic terms , the only way to achieve this is to alter patterns in demand .
thank you very much , mr fischler , for your replies .
in the long term , our fellow european citizens must enjoy high quality water everywhere , whether surface or groundwater .
you are aware that this house wanted our directive to be compatible with the commitments given under international conventions , in particular ospar , as stated in the directive .
the arrangements introduced will clear the way for a list of priority substances to be gradually drawn up every 4 years , that is , priority substances which must be reduced in quantity , and priority hazardous substances , which must purely and simply be eliminated .
we were faced with the problem of producing a rigorous definition of what we called good groundwater status .
in order for this good status to be specified , it was decided that a ' daughter ' directive should be drawn up , that is , a directive that will implement the framework directive .
parliament was rather afraid that the new directive would provide an opportunity to delay requirements to combat pollution and immediate measures to prevent the pollution of groundwater .
so you see , ladies and gentlemen , it seems to me that in this way we have come up with a system that enables us to make significant progress , and not just in terms of the main principles , but also in the overall effectiveness of the decisions that have been made .
the second major task for this house will be the substance of the framework directive on groundwater .
in any event , this is the intention of our directive and i have no doubt that the commission and the member states will ensure that it is implemented .
in june 1995 , and at our group ' s insistence , the european parliament ' s committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy held a hearing of experts on the european union ' s water policy .
by working together closely in this way , parliament and the european commission gradually moved towards a consensus , a process also helped by the intensive discussions during the first and second readings in the european parliament and the conciliation procedure .
i should like once again to make explicitly clear in this connection the particular importance we attach to reconciling community law and international conventions , albeit in such a way that the substance of international conventions does not automatically become legally binding in community law .
in certain respects the directive forms a framework whose contents are still unclear .
all in all , the foundations have been laid for a coherent water policy and for long-term improvements in water quality .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i would like to say that i am making this speech on behalf of mrs garcia orcoyen , who was unable to attend this sitting .
tomorrow 's approval of this framework directive will represent a great step forward on the road to the cohesion and harmonisation of the legislation of the member states with regard to the quantity and quality of their water .
in this last stage of the long parliamentary process undergone by this directive , in particular during conciliation , the european parliament has been able to present a united front in defending its arguments before the council .
the rapporteur 's superb coordination and the will to reach an understanding shown by all the political groups have made this final text possible , and it has been improved in basic aspects such as the legally binding nature of the objectives without omitting to take account of the various problems in the member states .
i must also congratulate the council on its flexibility in the face of the criticisms put forward by parliament , and the commission for its effective mediation .
tomorrow , a new and equally important stage in the directive ' s development will begin , in which the european parliament must continue to participate extremely actively in monitoring and controlling the fulfilment of objectives and deadlines and the drawing-up of reports or legislative acts derived from the directive .
one of the weakest points to have become apparent during the drawing-up stage must be strengthened : the incontestable need for more and better means of technical advice for subjects which , like this , require highly specific knowledge , and in which the social and economic cost of a small calculation error can be great .
finally , i would like to emphasise what makes this directive a real tool for sustainable development : the balance achieved in the consideration of water as an extremely valuable economic resource and as an essential element in the conservation of european ecosystems .
the development of this directive may provide an important meeting point in the much-reviled relationship between economy and ecology .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the water framework directive contains many positive initiatives in favour of comprehensive and integrated water protection .
we cannot wait 30 years for the european court of justice to decide whether or not the environmental objectives are in fact legally binding .
the member states have been called upon to improve the quality of our water quickly in order to achieve the objectives in 15 years ' time .
mr president , the forthcoming water framework directive is based on the justified principle that citizens of the european community are entitled to use drinking water on a daily basis .
the tasks are therefore broadly defined .
mr president , commissioner , it was a very turbulent night sitting in which parliament , the council and the commission agreed upon a common water policy for all member states .
i would like to make two points to emphasise the importance of integrated water management : firstly , i would like studies to be carried out on the establishment of a federal " water and environment " management system in the various countries at european union level , second , we must ensure that the proposals of the directive are implemented and encourage them , not only at european union level , but also in the aid that we give to third countries in the form of " water " projects , the impact of which lies in a hydrographic ecosystem affecting the countries of the european union , but also those that are part of the meda agreements , for example , which must be taken account of in the map projects and even in others , like the upper nile basin or switzerland .
mr president , the commitment that has been obtained on the text of the new water framework directive is generally positive , even though it contains certain controversial aspects , worthy of criticism , which can nevertheless be ironed out when the various studies , action plans and draft regulations provided for in the text we have just approved are drafted .
the new paragraph 4 of article 9 will allow for the continuation of the established practice in ireland of not applying water charges to the domestic water sector .
many have to pay to sink their own pump in ireland and pay the electricity charges .
many are on group water schemes which are not part of the public water supply and have to pay dearly each year for the privilege of rather questionable quality water being distributed to their houses .
we are coming to the end of a long road on which there has been a long battle , long discussions , but in the end , some positive agreements and constructive positions on the part of the three institutions , the council , parliament and the commission , which have made this agreement possible .
as with any agreement , some will think it too little , others too much , but there is a middle point , a balance that is acceptable for the diverging points of view of those who have worked all this time .
in some countries , vast expanses have under 400 millimetres per year , that is , semi-arid zones , while in others the average far exceeds 2 500 or 3 000 millimetres .
the focal point of this directive , in which water is considered as a whole , a total flow , with no distinction between surface and groundwater , which is the mistake that was made for a long time , is the right focal point and implies a step forward .
the effort to keep our aquifers in the european union as clean as possible , or as unpolluted as possible , is a key effort if we want to guarantee balanced development , sustainable development and a habitable europe for future generations .
mr president , i should like to ask the commission what is happening with the 1991 directive on ecological water quality which has so far not officially been withdrawn by the european commission .
it is a problem which the translators could not solve because the text is so specialised .
mr president , with regard to the directive on ecological water quality , to which i believe mrs schleicher is referring , this framework directive incorporates all the essential elements of the proposal on the ecological quality of water and i understand that the latter has already been withdrawn .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
we began with cars and oil and are now faced with the question of what to do with the nine million cars which end up on the scrap heap every year .
this parliament ought also , however , to have had the courage to make a really bold decision in favour of a really new type of car for the future , one which will not weigh 1 500 kg but perhaps only 1 000 kg and which , with its lifetime ' mileage ' of 300 000 km , may be seen to have genuine advantages in terms of environmental policy .
one general point - and also a disputed one in this house - was the question of costs .
we have made exceptions which will be reviewed by the commission in three years ' time for , together with the scientific advisory board , the commission has overall responsibility for making the relevant decisions in this area in three years ' time .
mr president , the compromise that has been reached is a great success for environmental and consumer protection .
it is the first time that manufacturers ' liability for waste has been up for debate at all , and the fact that manufacturers ' liability is soon to become a reality is to be welcomed .
the compromise reached on heavy metals is also a giant step towards an environmentally friendly strategy for dealing with the flow of materials .
what is worth noting , as far as the conciliation process is concerned , is the fact that parliament has unfortunately slowed down this development towards manufacturer ' s liability instead of speeding it up .
lastly , it is important to highlight another point too , which is of a more specific political-institutional nature .
let us be honest , we are all aware that we started the conciliation procedure from very opposed positions - there was even a certain amount of interinstitutional tension between parliament and the council - with many national differences in terms of both experience and interests .
mr president , commissioner , with regard to end-of-life vehicles , we have reached a sound compromise .
for the first time , european legislation defines manufacturer ' s liability in no uncertain terms .
we are now dealing with manufacturer ' s liability in the case of end-of-life vehicles .
unfortunately , the text stipulates that the manufacturer will be wholly or mainly responsible .
we need to move towards individual manufacturer ' s liability .
mr president , it is true that the legislative procedure has been long and difficult , and i have said so .
it should be noted that the commission 's initial proposal was presented in july 1997 .
during this prolonged procedure and in spite of the complexity of the legislation , it has been possible to solve a series of problems thanks to the colegislators and , once again , to the three institutions ' will to come to an agreement .
i am therefore pleased with the agreement on a joint text , reached on 23 may this year at the conciliation committee .
i am sure that the joint text represents a good balance between the need to guarantee a high level of environmental protection and the legitimate concerns of the various participants .
i would , however , like to emphasise three statements that the commission will make when it adopts the directive .
firstly , the provision laid down in article 5 ( 1 ) does not oblige the member states to establish separate collection systems with special funding requirements , but allows them to use the existing waste collection systems .
second , with regard to article 5 ( 3 ) , it is the responsibility of the member states to decide which producers , concessionaries and collectors must be registered in accordance with the framework directive on waste or in a new register created specifically .
generally speaking , this text constitutes a significant step towards sustainable production and consumption , a model for future community initiatives in the field of specific waste management such as , for example , the directive on electrical and electronic waste , to which reference has been made .
many thanks , mr president .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
before coming to the proposals contained in my report , it would be helpful to remind ourselves of some of the key issues in this debate .
essentially , the problem can be expressed very simply : aviation is growing at an unsustainable rate .
in terms of aviation growth , air traffic is forecast to almost double in the next 15 years .
to take a case that i know well in the uk , the government 's own air traffic forecasts which were published in june this year show total passenger numbers at uk airports rising from 160 million in 1998 to 400 million in just over 20 years ' time .
that increase of 240 million is equivalent to four new airports the size of london heathrow or eight new airports the size of london gatwick .
on the contrary , global aviation policies are actually encouraging the unrestrained growth of this sector .
to mention some of the key points of my report very briefly : on noise , current noise standards for new aircraft have actually been in existence since 1977 and there is therefore an urgent need for more stringent standards .
the airlines have been getting away with not paying their way for over 50 years .
the aviation sector is responsible for some jobs but it should not be forgotten that making aviation pay its way in terms of taxation will create thousands of jobs in other sectors .
mr president , i should like to begin by saying that all members of this house care deeply about the environment despite the fact that the rapporteur and members of the greens would have you believe otherwise .
environmental concerns must , however , be balanced against the needs of the aviation industry to ensure its success in the future .
i would like to assist honourable members by pointing out the following information : air transport is responsible for generating 25 million direct jobs world-wide .
if multiplied by the number of countries in the european union one can see and understand just how important this industry is to our economies .
in terms of environmental impact , aviation uses less than 8 % of the land required for rail and less than 1 % required for road use .
over the past 15 years co2 emissions have declined by 70 % and unburned hydrocarbons by 85 % .
they should also tackle land planning around existing airports and take responsibility for their decisions in the past .
to suggest that either a tax on kerosene , which is internationally exempt from tax for the aviation industry , or vat on tickets or aircraft purchases is the answer is incorrect .
i would hope in future the proposals from the commission are thought through more carefully .
the commission statement on aviation and the environment is a first step towards better european legislation .
as stated in the report , we would like international consultation and further research .
since the outcome of this research is uncertain , we support the fall-back position , as formulated in paragraph 20 of the report , in the form of a european environmental levy .
in the final analysis , what matters is for us to follow the kyoto agreements , and aviation should contribute substantially in this respect .
there are specific reasons for this , but something must be done about the matter .
a regional approach is premature at the moment , and i am pleased that the rapporteur has amended a number of her points in the original text to this effect .
it must not serve as a pretext for other objectives in the field of tax or for extending the competence of the commission .
this first step towards a european tax will only affect passengers , once again , without achieving any of this report ' s objectives .
our citizens are already squeezed hard by taxes and , at a time when the member states are trying to reduce taxation , a european tax could put our businesses in a difficult position in relation to their competitors , in particular american businesses or others , with numerous disastrous consequences for employment .
furthermore , we demand that tax subsidiarity in favour of the member states be observed .
the political dependency of the member states depends in large part on their freedom in terms of tax .
on the other hand , air travel has an obvious detrimental effect upon the environment due to exhaust emissions and noise pollution .
the group of the european people ' s party and european democrats in any case calls for a significant reduction in permitted levels of noise pollution - which , in view of the international character of air travel , ought more sensibly to be regulated within the framework of the icao - and for noisier aircraft to be excluded from using european airports following brief transitionary periods .
we hope , and are campaigning for , a situation in which the member states of the european commission will provide a clear mandate .
we have to protect our citizens from unnecessary noise .
mr president , we know that traffic emissions are one of the greatest environmental problems we have and they have also proved to be one of the hardest to get rid of .
in this sense the problems of air traffic are still greater because we have to find global solutions for them .
mr president , i would like to emphasise the importance of the aim to use efficient , alternative transport , in place of short flights , which was mentioned in this report .
this report sets the right tone for this , especially for the benefit of the commission .
despite our positive attitude to this report , there are a number of elements which , in my opinion , do not belong in a report such as this one .
but we need to focus all our efforts on how we can minimise the effects of the rapid growth within this sector on the environment .
in my opinion , the european union should support the icao process .
mr president , commissioner , i think we are all convinced that we have an obligation and a duty to protect the environment and contribute to sustainable development with an environmental policy that has seen its importance increased subsequent to the treaty of amsterdam .
i agree with the commission on drawing up more stringent standards on noise and also on establishing transitional provisions to satisfy the needs of the regions that are confronted with noise pollution problems .
it would also be important to ask the commission to present proposals for the introduction of economic incentives aimed at achieving a reduction of the negative effects on the environment .
naturally , what we do not agree on is the unilateral establishment of tax on kerosene , as a unilateral decision without the backing of the icao would have a minimal impact on the environment , would create legal problems , would damage competition among european airlines and would consequently affect users , who would see their tariffs rise .
it would also be essential that , before taking any measures with regard to the adoption of taxes on the aviation industry , a study should be carried out on the costs and benefits that these measures would imply .
in conclusion , i would like to emphasise the importance of efficient management in the aviation industry in reducing pollutants , placing the emphasis on improving airport management and clearly supporting the creation of a single european sky , by means of which we would also undoubtedly contribute to reducing environmental pollution .
drafting radically new regulations on aircraft noise has to happen globally and under the auspices of icao , and careful , long-term community and town planning consequently has a key role in this .
as we are all aware , the environmental consequences of air transport have recently attracted a great deal of interest .
many citizens living in these areas believe that much more could be done to improve their situation and that is what they are demanding .
furthermore , the long-term impact of gases from air transport on climate change is undoubtedly a cause of concern in the world today , as is the impact of other types of emissions .
the air transport system must therefore be handled globally and coherently , from an environmental point of view , that is , we must also take account of aspects relating to the activity of air transport .
we must try to reconcile interests that are not always easy to reconcile as air transport undoubtedly involves economic interests that are characterised by high investment costs which require a long life span before they are paid off .
but there is no doubt that the public , not only people in the surrounding area who suffer most directly from certain types of pollution such as noise or even emissions , but the public in general , who want sustainable development and quality of life , has a right to demand action from us to guarantee this type of growth that should be the european model .
in its communication on air transport and the environment , the commission maintains that the aviation industry needs to increase its efforts to improve the environmental quality of new aircraft being built .
i know this message is not well received in many parts of the sector but , without a doubt , in the medium and long term there is no solution but to look for an alternative unless we want air transport to become a victim of its own success .
the commission , however , is aware that the air transport sector is correct in saying that before carrying out environmental measures , a serious in-depth study must be done on the economic and social repercussions that these measures will have .
i have the impression that today , those most concerned by the environment are accepting , little by little , but more and more , the fact that in order to develop a definite environmental policy , account must be taken of the balance between the cost and effectiveness of the measures proposed .
the report we have before us considers these fundamental issues and takes account of both the need to reinforce environmental protection beyond routine efforts and the profitability analysis factor .
for example , what she says on kerosene seems to me to be a reasonable way of presenting this problem , which undoubtedly cannot be solved at european level , but at world-wide level and by the icao .
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the support she gives the commission in the report , and say that we find ourselves at a difficult stage of the debate on new noise standards and on legislation which gradually eliminates the noisiest aircraft , within the framework of the icao .
on many occasions , we have indicated our preference for an international solution to these problems , and the commission has noted with satisfaction the positive development of the united states ' stance in relation to the standardisation process that is taking place in the icao .
i have to say that the legislation on the so-called " hushkits " , with regard to the noisiest aircraft , adopted in its day by parliament , the council and the commission , was based precisely on the fact that the united states had adopted unilateral measures outside the icao .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
noise is an environmental and health problem which is underestimated .
vans and lorries produce more noise than ordinary cars .
this is why it is important to make the necessary changes here too , and i hope that a number of the christian-democrat meps will be able to vote in favour of this .
the tyre industry has been given until october 2005 to meet stricter noise limits .
the noise level from ' fluisterasfalt ' [ silent asphalt ] , as it is termed by our flemish friends , or ' zoab , zeer open asfaltbeton ' [ very open asphalt concrete ] , as we like to refer to it in the netherlands , is probably 20 decibels lower than that from cobblestone roads .
our motorways are no longer paved with cobblestones , but a reduction of 3 to 5 decibels is possible by introducing this type of asphalt everywhere .
this means that the noise level can be cut by more than half without reducing the volume of traffic .
more than 10 years ago , the european parliament introduced the first generation of catalytic converters and , two years ago , the second generation of catalytic converters appeared in the langen / hautala report on the motor oil programme .
as a result , air pollution caused by cars and lorries will drop by 70 % to 90 % in 2005 and 2007 .
there are now two major environmental issues left to tackle at european level .
with regard to co2 , the committee on the environment , public health and consumer protection has suggested that the european commission submit a legislative proposal to reduce the rolling resistance of tyres by 5 % .
just in the last three days , the car and tyre industries have indicated in this chamber that their options may well be open when it comes specifically to car tyres .
it is possible , as we shall see in one or two years ' time , that the industry will be able to achieve these objectives of ours by the year 2005 .
mr president , commissioner , it is a well-known fact that you are not entirely averse to cars yourselves and also enjoy driving .
there are already tyres whose specifications are well below the values proposed in the common position when it comes both to tyre noise and to the rolling resistance which is responsible for petrol consumption and co2 emissions .
i am therefore wondering why this parliament cannot summon up the courage to say that whatever is now already state of the art technology is what we demand by 2005 for all tyres , particularly those fitted to private cars .
some of our colleagues are seeking to sabotage this careful work by demanding arbitrary and ill-considered decibel reductions .
in some cases their figures are achievable , in others not .
since the first publication of this directive back in 1997 the manufacturers have moved to meet the commission standards .
firstly , tyre standards are not the only problem .
in many cases a better solution is to change the road surface and not the tyre standards .
secondly - and in my opinion of paramount importance - is the need to balance the problem of tyre noise and tyre safety .
our failure to agree tyre safety standards creates an unacceptable level of uncertainty with regard to this vital question .
for that reason i am particularly concerned about the potential effects of amendments nos 3 and 4 and their impact upon tyre safety , especially for vehicles such as buses and trucks .
the situation will become untenable , however , if there is an attempt to bring in changes too fast , as would seem to be the case on this occasion .
in preparing the proposal , the commission consulted several bodies independent from the manufacturers , who worked with experts from the member states for a long time in order to find the appropriate level of strictness on decibels for the various categories of tyres for cars , vans and lorries .
as a result of this extensive prior consultation of experts , the member states have unanimously approved the level of strictness chosen in the proposal as a common position .
first of all , it should be noted that the quality of the road surface is , to a great extent , up to 6 decibels , responsible for the noise generated by tyre contact .
now , at the second reading , 4 amendments have been tabled .
amendment nos 2 , 3 and 4 propose the reduction of noise thresholds by 2 decibels .
until grip requirements are applied , these three amendments are therefore unacceptable .
this correlation between noise and rolling , tyre grip and fuel consumption is rightly at the centre of the concern expressed in amendment no 1 .
this matter is also the subject of discussion in the transatlantic business dialogue to promote the emergence of a global type standard gts 2000 .
the european commission is following this work with the intention of transposing the results into directive 92 / 23 / eec in order to determine the correct balance between safety , noise and resistance .
it is for these reasons that article 3 , as worded in the common position , stipulates that the requirements on grip and on rolling resistance shall be integrated with the noise requirements in the extended timetable of 24 and 36 months respectively , following the entry into force of this directive .
amendment no 1 , which proposes to legislate again on two occasions within a period of one year after the entry into force of this directive , is not acceptable .
the commission will then be able to amend this directive in order to include grip on dry and wet surfaces and rolling resistance for all categories of tyre .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
mr president , the proposal for a directive which we are debating today is designed to restrict the marketing and use of azocolourants used in fabric dyes and leather goods .
the annex to the directive contains a list of fabric and leather products in which the use of these suspect substances is banned .
several countries have already introduced similar bans in their legislation and most companies established in the european union fall into precisely this category .
however , we need a directive in order to harmonise the internal market and prevent such unilateral regulations .
finally , as is only to be expected , the directive also contains an analytical method for detecting banned azocolourants .
the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy accepts the principle on which this directive is based .
the committee on the environment takes the view that the list of products in which the use of azocolourants is banned , as contained in the annex to the directive , should not be open .
that is the purpose of amendment no 3 .
mr president , commissioner , this is a small and modest report , an amendment to a directive that i , however , believe is an important and significant example of the great success of the awareness and information policies and of the fact that the regulation often comes after society has sorted itself out .
furthermore , as far as i know , people do not normally tend to eat carpets , and therefore this level of risk could be avoided .
i repeat , i believe it is positive for us to work towards progress , for society to be one step ahead of us and that all we have to do is ratify what has already been recognised .
by means of the voluntary stamp of quality and the interim deadline of 1 january 2006 , we have also succeeded in taking account of the special problems presented by the oriental carpets industry and , in spite of these problems , in also including hand-made oriental carpets in the directive in the medium term .
following an opinion of the scientific committee on toxicity , ecotoxicity and the environment confirming such risks , the commission proposed in december of last year a directive restricting marketing and use of certain azocolourants which could pose a risk of cancer if they come into close contact with the skin .
the commission proposal for a directive would introduce a ban on the use of certain azocolourants in textile and leather articles that come into close contact with the skin .
the colourants concerned are xylidines which may release any of the 21 cancer-causing amines listed in the proposed directive .
the proposal provides not only for the protection of consumers ' and workers ' health .
i would stress that the proposal is based on the results of independent studies on the risks of azocolourants and of the costs , benefits and trade effects of the proposed restrictions .
the commission is unable to accept those parliament amendments which would extend this ban by replacing the proposed list of examples of product categories covered by an exhaustive list by covering articles other than those made of textiles and leather and by including other amides .
amendments nos. 3 , 4 and 7 of the committee on the environment are the ones i refer to .
nor is the commission able to accept amendments that would introduce a second testing method to show compliance with the provisions .
this applies to amendment no 5 of the committee on the environment .
the commission can accept in principle an exemption for handmade oriental carpets from the example list of product categories covered by the proposed directive as the risk from such carpets is likely to be low .
however , the commission cannot accept that the exemption is only temporary .
to summarise our point of view , we can accept amendment no 1 of the committee on the environment .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
mr president , the report before us is a position adopted by parliament in response to a communication from the commission on the problems associated with undeclared or illicit work .
this problem is being dealt with at european level because it relates not just to one particular country but to all member states .
the fact is that , by definition and by its very nature , undeclared work is difficult to get to grips with in any country .
on the basis of estimates and long-term investigations , it may be assumed that a total of 28 million people engage in undeclared work .
almost all investigations list unduly high taxes and social security contributions as a cause .
in drawing its conclusions , the committee has , however , come up with a variety of positions derived from the very different evaluations of the various causes .
in the five minutes granted to me , i can present only a number of important points in the report .
the problem is complex and needs to be tackled at a variety of levels .
i would thank all my fellow meps for their splendid cooperation but , above all , the shadow rapporteur , karin jons , for her constant readiness to engage in discussion .
there are some parts i do not like , such as for instance paragraph 13 which promotes tax coordination .
there is another report out today which was an annual report from the commission , referred to in today 's financial times under the wonderful heading " brussels demands labour reform . "
but it also addresses this problem of undeclared work .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , there is a clear need for action on the issue of undeclared work in all the member states , for there have not so far been many successes in combating it .
thirdly , undeclared work is not primarily the result of illegal immigration from third countries .
on the contrary , the majority of those who engage in undeclared work are our own citizens .
in any case , for all of us , illegal and undeclared work constitutes , by definition , an abuse of those who need to work , not least in terms of the tax burden which should ensure solidarity .
however , there are specific recommendations in the report , for example specific procedures which could be implemented in order to fight the scourge of illegal or undeclared work .
i tabled some amendments , which have already been accepted by the rapporteur , and i will therefore not dwell on them .
it is claimed that child labour does not exist in europe , but that it might exist - as has been stated - in italy and southern countries .
in short , we are talking about a form of exploitation in the workplace , which admittedly is detrimental to public finances due to lost revenue from tax and social contributions , but we must never forget that we are talking about the exclusion to which , according to the commission , between 10 and 28 million citizens of the european union are reduced .
lumping together those offering this type of work and those accepting it is inappropriate , even shocking .
integrate undeclared work into the labour market or adapt the job market to the existence of these excessively flexible types of work ?
the serious cases of undeclared work are those that are organised as such .
there is also a tax argument which plays a big part in mrs glase ' s thinking .
we are living in a europe that is increasingly closer to its citizens and therefore we cannot omit to concern ourselves with employment , as employment , together with health , is one of the main concerns of the citizens and , i dare say , especially of those who are unemployed because they have lost their job or perhaps never had one .
the economic causes of undeclared work , increased income for workers , the opportunity to save on tax and social contributions or the reduction in costs for the company , are not unrelated to its existence and a significantly higher rate of growth than that of the legal or official economy .
to refer briefly to the sectors or groups in which undeclared work has the most scope for expansion , we need to include multi-job situations where the income obtained from this illegal work is supplementary ; economically inactive people who have greater flexibility in terms of time and the case of the unemployed who want an additional income , often turning down offers of legal work .
in addition to these easily visible situations , it is assumed that there are also many cases of production decentralisation , outsourcing or subcontracting which , in a less direct , less visible way , can lead to undeclared work .
what we are witnessing , in fact , is the emergence of two productive systems and two social models .
secondly , i think that the general reference to undeclared work or to certain general categories is the weak link in the approach to the problem : we all know that undeclared work cannot be dealt with as a single phenomenon and needs a policy which is differentiated by sector and sub-sector , depending on the people supplying it and the nature of the individual problem .
then there is the matter of bogus self-employment and certain new forms of employment .
failing to declare work is no mere peccadillo .
in germany , for example , work is being lost due to illegal employment and , for every ten thousand jobs , dm 240 million is lost in taxes and social security contributions .
in her splendid and balanced report , anne glase estimates the volume of undeclared work in the eu at between 10 and 20 per cent of gnp .
the commission has opened the debate with its communication on undeclared work in the spring of 1998 .
we are pleased to say that it has stimulated debate both with the european institutions and within member states .
parliament also seems to share the view that the main action has to be taken at the level of member states .
indeed it is the mix of the situation in the labour market , the tax and social security mix , as well as the social acceptance , that determine the level of undeclared work .
the commission is also convinced that undeclared work should be dealt with within the framework of the luxembourg process .
we believe that undeclared work should be actively taken into account in the national action plans for employment .
we welcome parliament 's support in this .
indeed the commission is now carrying out a study on different measures used to combat undeclared work in selected member states in order to identify good policy mixes .
within its possibilities the commission will continue to monitor the situation and report on it within the framework of existing reports on the principle of equal treatment .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . ( the sitting was closed at 11.45 p.m. )
thank you , mr rubig .
the president has very clearly ruled out the possibility of a debate this morning .
secondly , and most importantly , they all began their sporting careers in an amateur club or at a school .
more and more men and women , whatever their age and their circumstances , are taking part in a sport .
in june 1997 , the sports ministers met at the stade de france in paris , and this was followed by meetings in germany , finland and portugal .
then , at feira in portugal , on the occasion of the council meeting in june 2000 , a clear call was made for the specific characteristics of sport to be taken into account in the application of community policies .
it is the wish of the french presidency that we should succeed in defining precisely what these specific characteristics are and what their recognition implies .
this approach is the basis on which my counterparts in the other fourteen member states and i have been working , in close collaboration with commissioner viviane reding .
the first question concerns the protection of under-age sportspeople .
i am very hopeful that , having regard to the 1994 directive on the protection of young people at work , we shall be able to offer the prospect of precise recommendations on this point .
secondly , i also wish to see measures taken to maintain the development policies of sports clubs .
sports federations and governments should be able , if they so wish , to take appropriate measures to protect the clubs that develop young talent .
at the same time , the international sports authorities have a responsibility to take action to control club management in order to avoid excesses , especially in relation to transfers .
thirdly , in the wider context , it seems to me that there is an urgent need to recognise the unique central role played by the federations .
i believe it is necessary to acknowledge the key role of the sports federations in organising sports competitions , in formulating the rules of their respective sports and in awarding titles .
i believe we are caught up in a race against the clock .
mr president , parliament has asked me to make a statement on the transfer system and on the whole panic which has gripped the world of sport and which the press has been echoing .
mr president , i shall respond to the report on doping in sport and sport in society at the end of the debate , if i may .
for the moment i shall confine myself to a statement on the transfer issue .
this report invites the sporting community , the member states and the european union to pool their efforts in order to ensure that sport , in its new economic environment , will continue to act as an instrument of education and integration on the basis of its values of fair play , equal opportunities and the pursuit of merit .
it goes without saying that the provisions of community law , especially those based on the principles of non-discrimination and free movement of persons , as well as the rules of competition , are applicable to sport .
this is the context , ladies and gentlemen , in which the commission , under the direct responsibility of my colleague mario monti , has been examining several aspects of competition as they relate to sport .
the commission recognises that the sporting community is free to determine the rules that will ensure the proper administration of their respective sports .
the commission recognises the specific nature of sport in the sense that some degree of equality is needed in competition between players and clubs so as to guarantee the uncertainty of results , which is the very essence of sport , as the minister has just emphasised .
the commission is investigating only those aspects of sport with a community dimension and an economic dimension .
regarding the matter of current fifa rules governing transfers , i must remind you that , back in 1998 , following a number of complaints , the commission questioned the compatibility of the fifa transfer rules with the rules of competition and sent fifa a list of grievances .
the commission believes that the fifa rules on transfers unfairly obstruct freedom of movement .
this is especially true of the rules which lay down conditions of transfer on expiry of a player 's contract , even though the contract has been duly terminated in accordance with national employment legislation and with its own terms and the contractually agreed financial indemnity has been determined and paid .
contrary to what some press articles have been suggesting , the commission has no intention of simply abolishing the transfer system or of creating a situation in which players would be able to terminate their contracts on a sudden impulse .
the commission , as the guardian of the treaties , wishes fifa to apply a transfer system which complies with the principles of community law as well as respecting the unique nature of sport .
the present system , however , satisfies neither of these criteria .
for many years , ladies and gentlemen , the commission has been waiting ' patiently ' for fifa to present a formula that could replace the present system , to offer a basis on which we could work together in search of a universally satisfactory and equitable solution .
mario monti and i have established contacts with the footballing world .
we have made the point that , under national codes of employment legislation , some form of compensation is warranted when a player breaks his contract with one club in order to join another .
the french presidency , as i said at the start of my speech , has testified to this same attachment to sport and its values on behalf of the council .
the commission is acting in the interests of sport to preserve the beautiful game , and i am convinced that , if we all pull our weight , a satisfactory solution will soon be in sight for the good of sport , for the good of football and for the good of europe .
in fact , the first death from doping took place in 1896 , when a cyclist took drugs .
in fact , we have already heard this morning that it is a priority for the french presidency , the council and also for the commission .
we have to assess why this problem exists and why doping has increased so much in recent years .
on the one hand , it is worth mentioning the over-commercialisation that is affecting sport , as well as the saturation of sporting calendars and greater demands on sportsmen and women , both physical and mental .
on the other hand , we should not forget that , these days , an increasing number of tests are being done , many of them outside competitions , and this also means that , logically , more cases of doping are being discovered .
however , it is very important to distinguish between the two types of doping : on the one hand , there is intentional or planned doping , that is , a team plans which substances the sportsman or woman needs to take , and when , in order to improve his or her physical performance .
on the other hand , there is accidental doping , which often does not even improve the sportsman or woman ' s physical performance .
combating intentional or planned doping is much more difficult .
overall , we need to fight doping globally .
combating accidental doping is much easier .
thus , when buying a drug , sportsmen and women will be able to clearly see the red traffic light indicating the risk of testing positive , or the green light which indicates that there is no risk , or the amber light indicating that there may be a risk and that they should contact their doctor or a specialist for advice .
however , even though the types of doping are different , sportsmen and women receive the same treatment and from the moment that they have a positive result they are considered to be guilty , with no right to prove their innocence and without an assessment of whether the doping was intentional or not , as occurs with other things in life .
we also call on the european commission to request that the fifth framework programme carry out research into doping substances and their impact on the health of sportsmen and women , detection methods and the natural limits of hormones that can be produced by the human body .
with regard to laboratories , it is very important that they comply with iso standards on uniform methods for collecting and analysing samples , and also that there should be protection and confidentiality , both in collection and in dealing with the case , in order to preserve sportsmen and women ' s right to honour and privacy .
sport needs a new definition : indeed , it should be considered as an activity that is an integral part of the education and training of young people , free time and the integration of socially excluded and disabled people .
in short , sport must be an essential factor in promoting the education and integration of all social classes .
the central committee has stated several times that it can no longer guarantee the pyramid structure on the basis of which sporting organisations and the social function of sport are currently organised .
europe must be more forceful in the fight against doping , a phenomenon which , unfortunately , is growing very rapidly and is no longer confined to the world of sport : the spread of this scourge has led to an increase in highly lucrative illegal activities , in which many criminal organisations have been involved , and we need to recognise that entrusting the fight against doping solely to sporting organisations has been a complete failure .
europe should therefore look into the possibility of promulgating community criminal legislation which would be valid in all the member states , and should consider setting up an independent , transparent , european anti-doping agency .
we need to try to improve the role played by sport and the role of the teaching of physical education in the curricula of schools .
moreover , we need to ensure that the statutes of national and international sporting federations lay down mission statements and contain clear , precise rules .
i therefore regret all the more that it has become evident over the last few days that many people in positions of authority in football and other sporting associations are unable to learn lessons and enter into a dialogue .
mr president , ten days before the start of the olympic games , the spectre of doping is hovering over sidney .
minister buffet , who has addressed us so eloquently here today , stated in le monde on 4 august that the basic ingredient missing in the fight against doping was strong political will .
mr president , sport is a popular activity .
the ppe-de is entirely behind this objective and has tabled amendments to give this initiative a boost .
the bosman ruling has mainly hit the smaller clubs , as the commissioner has already pointed out , especially in the smaller countries , such as the netherlands where i am from .
we therefore hope that the commission , in tandem with the sports organisations , will produce proposals which will make amends in the short term .
the sports federations , such as uefa and fifa , have also submitted proposals to this effect .
mr president , madam president-in-office , commissioner , the group of the party of european socialists asked the commission to make a statement on the topical subject of football transfers and for it to be added to this joint debate .
the subject of transfers is perhaps an example that sums up the current situation of sport .
a major club in my native city made the biggest transfer in football history - eur 70 million .
the person involved has said that it is absurd , and the chairman of the club has said that it is in a very grave economic situation .
in the united states in the 1940s , under anti-trust legislation , the same measures were applied in hollywood as those that the commission is proposing .
unfortunately , uk athletes - linford christie , dougie walker and gary cadogan - were not presumed to be innocent by the international athletics association .
the specific status of sport derives primarily from the sports system , from the social pyramid which is reflected in the structure of small clubs in our towns and rural areas as well as in major sporting events .
as far as the system and its focal point , the sportsperson , are concerned , what the reports are calling for is the rationalisation of the specific nature of sport in our european union .
the commission was right to remind us that one of the first causes of the increased prevalence of doping lies in the commercial implications of modern sport .
finally , the reason why sport has assumed an important and indeed a central place in our contemporary societies is perhaps because it has become the only means open to a nation to demonstrate its greatness .
mr president , on the eve of the sydney games , what remains of the olympic ideal and the exalted principles of pierre de coubertin ?
others , especially the sprinters , are proclaiming loud and long that they are only running to promote their particular brand of footwear .
some football clubs are already listed on the stock market .
doping seriously damages athletes ' health as well as the essential virtues of sport , namely honesty , fair play , respect for one 's opponent , friendship , etc .
europe must show its trust in the voluntary bodies by accepting the proposals from the federations and from other olympic committees .
the bosman decision , for example , which was taken in the name of high principles , has destabilised professional clubs and has exacerbated the impact of money on european football .
the latest transfer record , set when figo moved to real madrid , is a case in point .
clubs in certain countries now build their teams almost exclusively with foreign players .
this is particularly true of barcelona , where they are able to field a team without a single spanish player , which effectively makes it impossible for young nationals to play at the highest level in their country .
let us work for a good solution that we can defend rather than working for a solution this afternoon , or this week , or this month .
come up with a good solution and you will have the backing of this house and the backing of football supporters across europe .
for this reason , i believe it is merely a commercial activity which should be distributed evenly .
i would like to know whether you have a response to this .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , no sportsman or woman takes drugs unless he or she has a financial interest in doing so .
the combination of enormous and disproportionate financial , media and sponsoring interests surrounding sportsmen and women puts so much pressure on them , and the intensity of sport is so great , that in order to maintain their level of competitiveness and the pace imposed on them by sporting calendars , sportsmen and women tend to use prohibited substances .
in this sense , i think that we can avert what is happening in the basketball federation today and what we can see will happen in all the other sports tomorrow , and maintain the unity of sport and its contact with society .
i think we all agree on the role and importance of sport which , at both competitive and amateur level , is an excellent tool for the education and social integration of both players and spectators .
precisely to avoid sport being reduced to nothing more than a business , we must call , loud and clear , upon the forthcoming intergovernmental conference at nice to expressly insert a significant reference to the institutional recognition of sport into article 151 of the treaty .
if fifa had done its job , the commission would not have needed to get involved in this .
i hope that fifa recognises that and will now finally come up with something that the commission can include in its proposals , as long as they do not run counter to the bosman judgment .
mr president , after congratulating our colleagues mrs zabell and mr mennea on their reports and the suggestions they contain , of which i very largely approve , i shall make do with two observations .
firstly , i should like to stress the need for community participation in the world anti-doping agency , which would enable the european union to make a vigorous and coherent contribution to the struggle against doping .
secondly , as i did yesterday , i plead again today for the inclusion in the treaty of a legal basis relating specifically to sport .
despite acknowledging that the main reason for the increase in doping is excessive commercialisation , the commission is doing nothing to combat it .
proven cases of doping in sporting competitions have diminished the reputation of many sports in the eyes of the public .
at last , the international olympic committee has faced up to its obligations to combat the widespread use of drugs in sport .
i welcome the ioc 's announcement that heavy penalties will be imposed on sportsmen and women caught using drugs in sydney this month and in the future .
the union must continue to work through the world anti-doping agency to ensure that uniform and structured guidelines are implemented for all sporting activities .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i believe that this debate and the reports are both a step in the right direction .
the council presidency has said that sport is education for life .
this means that insufficient account has been taken of the special hallmarks of sport and its 700 000 clubs , and of voluntary work done in areas like youth work and training for children and young people .
it is therefore both a logical and desirable consequence of all this that sport should be given a legal basis in the treaty .
however , we are also aware that sport can sometimes be accompanied by horrific acts of violence , abominable racist outbursts and unacceptable strident nationalism .
and for all of these reasons , we cannot accept the idea that sport should be considered in its economic dimension alone .
voluntary organisations and individual volunteers are every bit a part of the sporting world , and it is surely thanks to them that sport is alive in our countries and that mass sport will be able to survive in future .
the protection of young sportspeople is a priority of the french presidency .
the financial and political commitment of all the countries of the european union to the world anti-doping agency is imperative , but it is not enough .
france has marked out the path , and i should be interested to know how the president of the council sees the interaction between the agency and national initiatives .
we must also combat the excesses of the transfer system , especially the trade in young professional sportsmen .
young people must be the main target in the rehabilitation of sport .
the time has come for politicians and sporting authorities to exercise their responsibility .
i wish , first of all , to express my thanks and congratulations to the two rapporteurs for their excellent work , and i should also like to highlight the action of our colleague doris pack , who paved the way for the negotiation of the protocol on sport which is annexed to the treaty of amsterdam .
i am personally shocked by the ease with which young sportsmen and women can supply themselves with performance-enhancing drugs , without being checked at all , through the internet or in certain countries of the european union .
the european commission is questioning the system of transfers between clubs , believing it to be contrary to players ' freedom of movement .
the abolition of transfers will induce agents to break their clients ' contracts several times in the course of a year in order to earn new commission each time a new contract is signed .
the system of agents must be brought under control by the union , or perhaps even scrapped .
the importance of sport and exercise both for societies and for individuals must not , however , get buried under professionalism and commercialism .
finally , i would like to turn your attention to the need to improve levels of gender equality in sport and exercise .
the european woman and sport network conference held in june in helsinki made recommendations which i hope will be taken into consideration at both national and union level .
it is incomprehensible why sport lacks a legal base in the european union .
we have to find a balance in the question of televising the most important sports events , one between the economic power of the organisers on the one hand , and the so-called public service principle on the other .
because we are all concerned about the excesses that occur in sport , it is very understandable that we have been focusing on those excesses , but it must also be stressed that the vast majority of the men and women who are involved in sport - participants and voluntary officials in local sports clubs and in sports associations - are men and women with a high regard for the values of sport , advocates of the sporting ethic who want sport to be a means of individual and collective development .
setting aside the excesses , we should also be aware that , in the world of association football for example , only one per cent of all players registered with the international federation of football associations are professionals .
so , the underlying causes have to be tackled , and without delay ; i believe the accent must be placed on controls , on sporting sanctions and on action against the supply chains .
concerning the specific question that was asked , i believe it is absolutely essential that each member state and the european union as a whole should work on a sort of convention which would be signed between the states and wada , the world anti-doping agency , to facilitate the work of wada in all countries , whatever their current legislation .
on the question of transfers , allow me to give my position and the position of the french presidency .
i am not in favour of maintaining the status quo , because we are familiar with the huge excesses which it has created and which have no economic , social or sporting justification .
in the past 48 hours , fifa has made some extremely constructive and interesting proposals , which , if adopted , would serve to protect the youth-development system and individual rights , as well as satisfying the clubs ' need to build and train teams .
finally , you may rest assured that the french presidency , having listened to you , will proceed with great determination towards the establishment of a solid basis for the recognition of the specific status of sport and in the fight against doping .
mr president , madam president-in-office , ladies and gentlemen , let me begin by thanking all the political groups for the support they have expressed for the action of the commission on the issue of the transfer rules .
we shall enter into dialogue now with a view to finding , along with the european football chiefs , a negotiated solution in the form of a new transfer system which is in the interests of football and is consistent with the european treaties .
i am also gratified , mr president , to note that the two communications issued in december 1999 have generated very lively interest and very broad support .
the concerns expressed by the president of the council are also those of parliament and are the same concerns which the commission has expressed in its two communications .
these are common lines of action ; each of us in our respective spheres and all of us together must pursue our efforts to ensure that concrete action is taken in each of those areas .
i hope that the declaration planned by the french presidency for the meeting of the european council in nice can help to define more clearly the specific character of sport .
doping in sport is not simply an ethical problem .
the support plan you have been examining is more or less the outcome of this work - a provisional outcome , admittedly , because it is only one stage in a longer process .
firstly , with regard to the initial objective , the commission requested the opinion of the european group on ethics , which was delivered on 11 november 1999 ; the group proposed a number of measures , and the commission will take these into consideration in its future actions .
i hope , ladies and gentlemen , that the efforts currently being undertaken by the french presidency will lead to the creation of this unanimity and that the community will be able to participate in the work of the agency , not only in a financial sense but also , and especially , in the formulation of ideas and political inputs .
lastly , the commission has to mobilise the resources at its disposal for the fight against doping .
it is essential , for instance , to ensure maximum coordination of policies and regulatory measures .
the adoption of a recommendation on sport and doping is also planned for this autumn .
moreover , the commission is funding a research project which ought to lead to the standardisation of procedures in the european laboratories that specialise in the fight against doping .
contacts have also been established with the new commission departments devoted to justice and home affairs , since , as your report rightly indicates , new opportunities are arising to deal with the doping issue in the framework of legislation for the suppression of drug trafficking .
finally , you will easily understand that , in the departments under my responsibility , namely education , vocational training and youth , the programmes that have been prepared will play a significant part in informing young people , raising their awareness of the issues and enlisting their aid in the fight against doping .
i believe that all of this is only one stage in a process , that more is expected of us , and i am convinced that the zabell report will serve the commission as a signpost and a landmark , both in its present activities and in its future initiatives .
mr president , allow me now to highlight the helsinki report and the social dimension of sport .
in that respect , the report is fundamental , and i thank parliament for having played a crucial role in its development .
in 1997 , in fact , parliament called on the commission to prepare a community initiative in the domain of sport , and in that same year a declaration on sport was annexed to the treaty , calling on the european institutions to consult with the sports associations before proceeding to deal with any major sports issue .
ladies and gentlemen , in my opinion , sport is in good health , maybe even in very good health .
if we consider the revenue from television rights or from the sale of sportswear and sports equipment , we have to conclude that sport has never been on a sounder economic footing .
since 1989 , the commission has been regularly proclaiming its belief in respect for the autonomy of the sports organisations .
and as long as the principles of solidarity and the social function , on which the european parliament has laid emphasis , are clearly respected , we can provide for derogation in specific instances from the rules of competition , for example in connection with the collective sale of television rights .
it must be perfectly clear , however , that a blanket exemption from these rules can never be warranted .
the second level is that of the national authorities .
the feira european council asked the commission to take account of the specific characteristics of sport and of its social dimension .
there are nearly 600 000 sports clubs in europe and 60 % of young people who are members of an association belong to a sports club .
and among the aspects i think are of major interest , i believe that the role and quality of physical education in schools come top of the list .
and i am convinced that we must make a special effort to protect young athletes more effectively .
to that end , the commission has sent the member states a questionnaire , asking them about methods to protect the health and education of young athletes , and i intend to submit a draft recommendation to the member states on improving the protection of the education and health of young sportsmen and women .
as i have often told you , i am involved in performing high-wire acrobatics right now , without a safety net , and an article could provide the safety net i dream of .
neither an article nor a protocol could , in themselves , resolve all the problems of sport .
but as your rapporteurs and many speakers have pointed out , the kind of article you are envisaging , similar to the one on education and culture that fully respected the subsidiarity principle , is , in my view , worth serious consideration .
i intend to submit a communication to the commission on proclaiming the year 2004 the european year of sport . ( applause ) why 2004 ?
it would also show that europe is a real force in terms of fair play , sport for all , and sport for the citizen .
it is with that in mind , ladies and gentlemen , that , like your rapporteurs , olympic champions that they are , i hope that those men and women who will be making superhuman efforts in sydney in a few days ' time will all be winners , because true sport , fair play in sport , is not a question of coming first but of surpassing one ' s own limitations .
the debate is closed .
secondly , this act occurred on the same day that the majority of heads of state and government were meeting in new york at the millennium summit organised by the united nations itself , which demonstrates the weakness of this organisation and of the instruments at its disposal to protect men and women far from their own countries who were simply endeavouring to defend human rights and the rights of refugees .
we understand the difficulty of the situation in indonesia , but it is essential to demand that the indonesian government should exercise its authority on its own territory .
mr president , i would like to associate myself with the comments made by my fellow portuguese members on the situation in timor and to call on the commission , the council and the president of the european parliament to do everything in their power to make indonesia respect the resolutions which have been adopted on this subject and to respect the commitments it has made to defend the people of east timor and the refugees in west timor .
i know that viviane reding is a very robust parliamentarian , as well as now a commissioner and i am sure she managed to cope with it , but i take the point .
explanations of vote- lienemann report ( a5-0214 / 2000 ) this report has some positive aspects , in particular the restatement of the binding nature of the proposed measures to protect water quality .
that time-limit is equivalent to authorising undertakings to discharge their toxic substances for another 20 years .
this directive provides a framework for consolidating legislation which has been in existence at national and european level concerning the whole area of the safety of surface water and ground water .
the european council , which represents the fifteen governments of the eu , originally did not include any provisions relating to the elimination of hazardous substances in this new water directive .
as a result of the implementation of this directive , the safety of water quality standards in europe will substantially improve . . ( de ) with its communication " pricing policies for enhancing the sustainability of water resources , " the european commission is seeking to harmonise and give practical form to the economic provisions of the ec framework directive on water resources .
furthermore , the provisions on the charging of environmental and resource costs associated with water use are aimed at those member states that still make excessive use of and pollute their water resources , and therefore not at germany , where exceptional efforts are already being made in this respect .
ever since 1997 the european parliament has been calling for the piecemeal nature of water legislation in europe to be brought to an end .
the conciliation between parliament and the council of ministers , the final stage in the legislative procedure , has enabled what i consider a balanced and satisfactory compromise to be reached .
the ppe / de group has always taken an ambitious and realistic stance .
the objective is gradually to eliminate discharges of hazardous substances , within 20 years of their identification .
that kind of project complies with the principle of regional cohesion and solidarity that we have always upheld .
the binding commitment the european union has made to its member states to eliminate discharges of hazardous substances into water within 20 years is certainly a step forward , even if 3 years are enough for certain chemical products .
in that specific case , priority should be given to water management and the water savings that can be made , before massive projects to transfer water from one hydrographic basin to another are proposed .
this directive represents a step in the right direction , but there will have to be more precise rules to reduce water pollution upstream .
florenz report ( a5-0212 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted in favour of the conciliation committee ' s definitive decision on the directive on end-of-life vehicles .
all vehicles within the european union must now be fully recyclable by the year 2015 .
there is an obligation on manufacturers to bear the whole or a large part of the cost of implementing these measures and for them to take back end-of-life vehicles at no charge to the last owner .
it was agreed at conciliation between the european parliament and the fifteen governments of the eu that this provision should now apply from 1 january 2007 .
the proposal for a directive on end-of-life vehicles , submitted in 1997 , is aimed at preventing the creation of scrap from vehicles and promoting the re-use , recycling and recovery of vehicles and their components , so as to reduce the amount of scrap produced by end-of-life vehicles that are dumped or incinerated without any energy recovery .
the european commission ' s strategy is based on measures such as increasing the percentage of re-usable components , ensuring an adequate number of collection points for end-of-life vehicles , achieving a number of objectives regarding the re-use and recovery of end-of-life vehicles , checks on the use of certain heavy metals in vehicle manufacture and ensuring that the cost of disposing of end-of-life vehicles is not borne by the last owner .
on the question of heavy metals , the council and parliament have agreed that vehicles put on the market after 1 july 2003 should no longer contain heavy metals such as cadmium , lead or hexavalent chromium .
the council of ministers has , in fact , remained inflexible about allowing the owner to return his end-of-life vehicle free of charge .
the amendment i tabled and supported has , in fact , been fully incorporated into the final text .
but are we really sure that less noisy tyres are really in everyone ' s best interests ?
we are aware of the progress made in road holding , in resistance to wear and tear , in reducing fuel consumption , but for known technical reasons the investments in research and technology do not yet allow all the rapporteur ' s demands to be reconciled .
the reason people die in africa , as in many poor countries , of malaria , bilharzia , tuberculosis or even just measles is not because of religious obstacles but because the people who are ill can afford neither medicines or care .
this resolution , in fact , does away with any idea of public service in considering that this sector , like others , should be based on ' an open market economy with competition ' .
human cloning : mr president , the majority of the group of the greens / european free alliance has voted in favour of this resolution .
in the debate in the chamber yesterday on cloning , i heard a number of people more or less clearly defending cloning for the purposes of medical treatment , on the grounds that this would be quite different from cloning for reproductive purposes .
researchers throughout the world have said that parkinson ' s disease and other serious illnesses can perfectly well be cured by other methods .
we also heard emma bonino say that politicians must take risks , but we in the group of the greens / european free alliance believe that it is our absolute duty as elected representatives to identify the risks and to be careful .
we must observe the precautionary principle , in this case more so than ever .
i was one of the 237 meps who voted for the resolution tabled by the group of the european people ' s party and european democrats on human cloning .
mr president , this morning our group discussed our attitude to paragraph 5 of the motion for a resolution on cloning , which states that there can be no difference made between cloning for reproductive purposes and any other sort .
in either case it is being used as a tool , as something to use , and not as a living being with intrinsic value .
we believe that , without wasting any time , what we can do today on such a complicated and difficult issue is to set up a temporary parliamentary committee on bioethics to give us the basis for a substantiated , in-depth discussion of the problem of medical embryonic research resulting from human cloning .
the cloning of embryos for research purposes , or even the mere use of surplus embryos for these purposes , would amount to crossing an invisible boundary beyond which the exploitation of human life would become acceptable .
one solution to this dilemma would be to speed up research into the possibility of obtaining stem cells from adult organs , which could be clearly earmarked for therapeutic purposes , as called for in the resolution tabled by our fellow members , elisabeth montfort and nicole thomas-mauro .
article 3 of the draft , as it stands , confines itself to prohibiting ' the reproductive cloning of human beings ' , i.e .
given the present state of our knowledge and of the ethical debate , and in view of the uk government ' s unacceptable authorisation of human cloning , the first thing we must seek is a total and absolute moratorium on all experiments in human cloning .
the socialist group is not calling strongly enough for an immediate stop to all human cloning .
the ppe group seems to be making a final judgment on such sensitive points of discussion as the distinction between reproductive and other cloning .
it was a good thing that our parliament took a clear stance on these abuses and thus , even if against the wishes of some of its members , opted for life . - ( de ) i abstained in the vote on the ppe / greens / efa motion for a resolution on human cloning .
the biggest risk is not inherent in the power of science but in the erroneous and uncontrolled exploitation and application of science .
we could make serious progress if we implemented the commission ' s proposal to apply the principle of ' reward the best and punish the worst ' to air transport in europe , drawing a clearer line of demarcation between the various activities on the basis of their quality in environmental terms .
nor are there enough practical measures to encourage aviation to pay more respect to the environment .
according to a study conducted under the eu ' s fifth environmental action programme , 80 million people in europe are exposed to noise levels that scientists regard as intolerable , while another 170 million are exposed to disturbing noise levels .
the icao has initiated a process of revising noise levels .
according to forecasts , these emissions will rise by 3 % a year over the period 1992 to 2015 .
europe ' s measures to reduce greenhouse gases are being blocked by the fact that it has excluded air transport , a major co2 producer , from the kyoto protocol and the plans to reduce pollutants .
for this reason alone , aviation can win the unfair competitive battle against the railways , which have lost a large part of their share of international passenger transport to other modes of long-distance travel , especially aviation .
we share most of the points of view presented in this about the need for a more vigorous policy to combat the negative effects of aircraft upon the environment .
as a result , it fails to deal with immediate priorities and , more importantly , only addresses in vague and general terms the problem of permissible limits on emissions of greenhouse gases and the definition of new , or at least improved , standards and rules which need to be applied at local and regional level and promoted at international level .
the commission proposal is mainly money-driven .
zabell report ( a5-0203 / 2000 ) mr president , this report refers to the fight against doping in sport .
unfortunately , the international sporting authorities have not been able to halt or even combat this extremely serious scourge .
it is a shame that europe has not understood this , and that today and over the coming years it will find itself involved in a very tough fight , where it will have to use much more incisive , firm and hard-hitting means .
accordingly , the involvement of the community in fighting the use of doping should be low-key .
the sports sector is organised in its own unique way and national federations and unions still play a key role in this .
consequently , i do not agree with the request to include a reference to sport in article 151 of the eu treaty .
doping in sport runs totally counter to that ideal .
i therefore support the inclusion of a legal basis in the treaty that would allow for community action in the field of sport .
i know that this issue is giving rise to much discussion , which will in fact help fuel the debate to be held in the european sports forum in lille on 26 and 27 october .
i think it is also vital to launch information campaigns on the risks associated with doping products .
mennea report ( a5-0208 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the mennea report on sport because it contains a large number of positive elements and , in particular , because it highlights the importance of continuing the current practice of organising sporting events for disabled people .
mr president , i would like to thank the members who voted for my report .
nor did high-level sport produce dozens of cases of rape and sexual attacks in the olympic village in atlanta ; and french tennis champion , nathalie tauziat , who wrote a book criticising the very emotionally charged atmosphere behind the scenes of the tennis courts , was obviously eliminated from the french team selection in sydney in the name of the team spirit and significant social values fostered by sport , according to mr mennea , the rapporteur for the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport .
mrs maes , iran is to be covered in the debate on human rights , as is the temelin nuclear power station .
this awareness-raising process has been set in motion , not least thanks to - and i would like to stress this here - those directly involved : russian citizens and social organisations with a sense of responsibility .
the nuclear contamination of the village muslyumovo , in the southern ural , with plutonium - and this is as long ago as 1949 - is a poignant example of this utterly reprehensible behaviour .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party is deeply touched by the recent disaster involving the kursk submarine and shares in the grief of those left behind and the russian people .
mr president , our prayers and sympathy go to the 118 sailors and their families .
the most important point is to educate and support all democratic forces , all the independent media , the administration , the judiciary , and young politicians , especially those in local government , so that russia becomes a partner with whom we can safely live together in eurasia .
mr president , as other members have already said , the kursk accident demonstrates that even ten years after the end of the cold war , military objectives are still considered more important than human life .
in order to show that it is not all one-sided , i am bound to refer to the situation of the british submarine which broke down on 12 may in sicily and has been in gibraltar , the only british colony in the mediterranean , since 19 may .
the situation is causing a great deal of alarm among the population , because , according to the royal navy ' s own regulations , within a radius of 10 kilometres there is danger , within 100 kilometres there is still potential danger , and the submarine may only be repaired in category ' x ' docks .
the docks in gibraltar are type ' z ' .
in my opinion , the fact that the gue group is now tabling amendments which attempt to divert the attention away from this disaster by introducing a regional problem of a completely different nature displays very little taste indeed .
however , we must add immediately that , in order to gain credibility , the european parliament and the european union in general cannot ignore the fact that within its own territory there is a situation of serious nuclear risk as the result of a submarine accident , even though it is not , of course , of the tragic nature of the case of the kursk .
but this is not a matter of domestic policy , but one of european security , it is a matter of european decency and i am raising it here in order to provoke a reaction from this parliament and from the authorities of the union in general in order to remedy this intolerable situation .
we would also like to express our concern - as other speakers have done - because , unfortunately , the matter that we were to discuss , that of the very serious , terrible and fatal accident of the submarine kursk has led us to deal with the problem of a nuclear submarine in mediterranean waters , in european union territory , in a british colony .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , as has been said , a british nuclear submarine has been moored at its gibraltar base since 19 may .
moreover , the united kingdom has knowingly failed to comply with community regulations in terms of radiation protection , exposing its citizens in gibraltar and those in algeciras bay to a very high probability of contamination , as it is now , and not last may , that it is recognising the extent of the breakdown .
in this case , there has been a violation of community law .
i suppose that the booing that we received from some british members when we criticised the situation in this house was also directed at the citizens of gibraltar .
in this house we criticised the lack of information for the population in the area and of reliable and official news from the united kingdom .
in the same way , we criticise something which is a reality : the united kingdom , faced with considerable social pressures in the country , has decided to transfer its base for nuclear submarine operations and repairs to algeciras bay , without respecting its own standards , which do not allow it to have this type of base in highly populated areas .
equally , we deplore the contemplative attitude of the spanish government , which only reacted when the pressure and concern reached a maximum .
the commission considers that the international community should offer the necessary assistance to russia .
improved radioactive waste management in north-west russia is one of the explicit priorities included in the new tacis regulation covering the next seven years .
the commission welcomes any action that would increase the budget funding to be used to reduce the ideological threat in north-west russia and in particular to enable laid-up nuclear submarines to be dismantled more quickly than 10 of the north fleet 's 100 disused nuclear submarines moored at various based in north-west russia have been dismantled so far .
the lack of storage capacity for spent nuclear fuel remains one of the major bottlenecks in dismantling operations as a whole .
the commission is also involved in a number of studies aiming to improve radioactive-waste management in north-west russia .
it has been raised by five members in this house and he has not said anything about it .
discussion of other subjects would have to be covered by other means and under a different agenda item .
the conference of presidents decided to also include the subject of the submarine in gibraltar in the agenda .
the vote will take place today , at 5.30 p.m .
as soon as the cease-fire is achieved , the burundi refugees must be able to count on help from the international community to provide them with a safe shelter in burundi .
on a final note , for lasting peace in burundi , it is crucial that peace in the congo region is established .
finally , mr president , i do believe that europe should resume the provision of semi-structural aid , especially in the areas of education and health care .
without even going back to the responsibility of the former belgian colonial power deliberately sustaining and exacerbating the hostilities between the two ethnic groups in the two countries , today the part that both french and british interests played in the civil war is public knowledge , just as it is public knowledge that the french army was directly responsible for mobilising and arming the hutu extreme right , which was responsible for real genocide .
mr president , over one hundred years ago , european colonial powers divided tribal lands in africa to establish national boundaries .
the eu must insist that neighbouring countries do not interfere in burundi and eu aid to them should be conditional on their cooperation .
this parliament and the european commission can help burundi and this resolution is a very good step in that direction .
the commission welcomes the signature of the peace accord as an important preliminary step in the long and difficult process of negotiations to end the conflict between burundi 's majority hutu and minority tutsi population .
however , as has been said in this discussion , some very important questions are still open , such as that of the cease-fire , which is the main gap in the agreement , the amnesty , the composition of the national assembly , the duration of the agreement and the transitory government leadership - no minor issues .
two tutsi parties added their signature to the agreement on the following day .
cease-fire talks are organised for 20 september in nairobi .
the regional presidents moi and thabo mbeki stress their importance .
beyond a eur 48 million rehabilitation programme whose implementation has started , the ec is finalising the procedures for the release of eur 50 million stabex funds to relaunch the rural economy .
finally , the commission is going to hold an informal donor meeting at technical level in brussels on 15 september .
coordination is extremely important because we are still in a situation where the right balance and the right kind of signals to the parties in the process in burundi are as important as the euros we are mobilising .
the vote will take place today , at 5.30 p.m .
but the people in those camps would prefer to be re-settled back in their homelands and not have that money .
that is what we are doing here today .
this was clearly demonstrated to us during our visit to the region , and our resolve to continue to encourage an agreement now between bhutan and nepal is as strong as ever .
the influx of bhutanese refugees into nepal began in late 1991 and the fear of diminishing international attention , therefore , is always present .
in new york , the united nations millennium summit is taking place as we speak and it offers the prime ministers of bhutan and nepal an opportunity to come together and to demonstrate their commitment to the ideas of peace and tolerance by agreeing to an early solution to the problem of bhutanese refugees in nepal .
aside from this question , i want to draw attention to a matter that concerns us all and concerns our future .
yesterday we voted for the galeote quecedo report on a common community diplomacy , which in the end was reduced to a report on a future college of common diplomacy .
the assistance from the european union and the international organisations is quite respectable , but no one can guarantee long-term financial aid at that level .
bhutan and nepal are not neighbours , but they are close to each other in spirit .
both are aware that lasting conflict will paralyse their national and economic progress .
the undertakings given by the bhutanese foreign minister when he visited us in brussels on 8 june have been honoured , as crucial negotiations began mid-year .
nevertheless , the largest democracy in the world does have the greatest influence in the region and bears some humanitarian responsibility here .
mr president , the group of the greens / european free alliance can only lend its firm support to this resolution which , as the members who have direct experience of this tragic situation have said , shows our institution 's concern for a region which may well be far away but whose human tragedies cut us to the very heart .
the european parliament has been calling for this for a long time and we must continue to urge it .
asean is simply a grouping of totally different countries , with widely diverging interests and no prospect of integration .
we must encourage forms of integration based on democracy - which is absolutely not the case with this kind of country - and therefore promote and encourage our bilateral relations with the countries that respect democracy and want to strengthen democracy and the rule of law , and pursue an extremely tough policy towards countries like burma .
the people ' s republic of china is currently encircling india : that is a real fact , an actual fact .
the explosion will hit not just asia , but in the end will also affect europe and the european union .
all these people are in an unacceptable situation .
therefore , the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party supports the proposals of the corresponding resolution and , in particular , i would like to draw attention to paragraph 8 , which asks that both the united states and the commission and the council impose the appropriate political and economic sanctions as long as there is no process of democratisation in burma .
mr president , we are once again debating the difficult situation in which burma ' s elected president finds herself , as well as the aggression displayed by that country ' s military regime .
people elsewhere have commented : look at mrs aung san suu kyi .
aung san suu kyi has asked for sanctions but we have done absolutely nothing about this .
in september 1999 , james mawdsley , from the north-east of england was sentenced to 17 years ' solitary confinement in a burmese prison .
british government ministers and staff have been making constant efforts to draw the attention of the burmese authorities to his plight , but with no success .
mr president , i would like to make it clear that the fact that iran has been replaced by burma in the debate on human rights does not mean that my group is not deeply concerned about the human rights situation in iran .
we are certainly still pinning our hopes in san suu kyi .
her continuing campaigns show that her voice cannot be silenced and that we in europe , therefore , also have a duty to do everything to ensure that her voice is heard not only here in europe , but also in america and above all in asia .
we must call on our partners , the asean states , but also other states in asia to do everything to bring about a change in this ' transitional government ' as it so cynically still calls itself .
brendan forde mr president , this parliament has discussed the situation in colombia many times .
