it is not a task for the eu but for the member states to take initiatives in this area .
the legal and ethical framework does indeed vary from one member state to another in line with national traditions and culture .
everyone agrees , however , that it is in the public interest to make a decisive stand against the wave of violence and other content dangerous to young people which is flooding television programmes and audiovisual services transmitted via networks , in order to protect the psychological balance of minors .
this report confirms that it is in the public interest to protect children from viewing excessive television violence and other programmes that may produce harmful effects .
the subject of this report is both highly specific and highly complex .
there are various solutions , but none is satisfactory .
children are also great consumers of the internet and video games .
the approach must include all forms of image transmission .
under these circumstances , it is essential that all the member states comply with community legislation as quickly as possible .
the 1998 report makes a special study of the phenomenon of unemployment and the economic impact of under-employment of women .
moreover , women are often in ' flexible ' jobs ; temporary contracts and low salaries are typical in sectors where women employees are in a majority .
women are also over-represented in ' typically female ' occupations but under-represented in jobs with responsibility and in the professions .
i therefore fully support the rapporteur in urging the commission to pursue its efforts and in particular to strengthen the ' strategic ' nature of its annual reports , by assessing the effectiveness of policy initiatives rather than contenting itself with describing them .
i also think it is necessary to stress that community standards of respect for women ' s rights and equal opportunities should be implemented in the candidate countries even before they join .
since the last electoral farce , fujimori has lost his legitimacy and not only that , but he has lost the political support that he previously had .
at the moment , the question that arises is the future of peru , of knowing whether the country will be able to get out of the difficult situation in which mr fujimori has now placed it .
various political groups have presented a joint draft resolution in which we basically ask president fujimori to go , but to do so in such a way that , through a process of clean and democratic elections , democracy can be consolidated in that country .
therefore , i think that if the european institutions and the european parliament help the peruvian people at this difficult time , we could contribute to the stability of the country and to the consolidation of democratic institutions across latin america .
mr president , peru is currently going through a period of uncertainty , and we all cherish the hope that the current situation will be resolved through a process in which all civil and political rights are guaranteed , which will help to strengthen and consolidate democracy and peace in peru , a country that has suffered 25 000 deaths in the last fifteen years .
the adverse effect that north american backing for him has had on those desires must be neutralised by another influence , a positive influence in favour of human rights and full democratic progress , coming from the european union .
as far as peru is concerned , a number of speakers , and also our resolution , have pointed to the fact that president fujimori ' s forthcoming resignation offers scope for a fresh start .
i feel that this resolution marks a key point in parliament 's political initiative .
mr president , the need for the resolution on the situation in peru has made two things clear .
the first is our frustration at having to return to the vigilance over democracy and human rights in latin america , which was of major concern to parliament in the 1980s and which diminished in the 1990s with the emergence of democratic governments in most countries there .
europe did not take the opportunity provided by the fledgling democracies to promote development and social justice in latin america to help these countries to break their almost exclusive dependence on accumulating capital , which is based on drug trafficking .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the conditions under which elections were held in peru in may this year , were unacceptable .
the european union emphasised only very recently , in a declaration , that president fujimori had seized the initiative with his decision to call fresh elections .
the vote will take place at 6.00 p.m .
mr president , earlier in the day we had a debate about the rights of women in the european union , and we also touched upon the question of the new candidate countries .
i find it completely incredible that such things can still be going on in the year 2000 , and not only do we not intervene , but we cannot , in reality , do a vast amount about them .
what is happening here , however , is in fact even worse .
the international community can no longer content itself with burying its head in the sand , and conducting ' wait-and-see ' diplomacy .
he can be a man of peace .
massoud insists that there is no military solution to the afghan problem .
finally it insists , and this is the essential point , that the european union coordinate its initiatives with those of neighbouring countries to impose a solution whereby peace , stability , and respect for international law and the most elementary human rights can be re-established .
it would do the eu ' s image no harm at all if it were to get a political initiative off the ground in the united nations , with a view to finding a peaceful solution to the conflicts in afghanistan .
the european union must renew its solidarity with all afghan women in their struggle at home and abroad against the taliban regime .
so peace , stability and respect for rights can only be re-established through a political solution .
i do not think that this code will be useful unless it is effective in preventing weapons from reaching the hands of people who are committing very serious violations against human rights , as these people are .
the taliban launched a new military attack on their northern opponents in the middle of the worst drought this poor country has had since time immemorial .
it remains very much to be seen whether this religious barbarism is really sufficient for us to form a closed international containment front against the hosts of jihad conspirator , osama bin laden .
in addition , echo has already made eur 5.7 million available this year for the victims of drought in afghanistan , for mine clearance in the north of the country and for the resettlement of refugees .
between 1991 and 2000 , the commission made a total of eur 400 million available for refugee aid , humanitarian emergency aid and food aid .
with its common position on afghanistan , the european union is supporting the united nations ' special mission in afghanistan , and the efforts to achieve peace undertaken by the general secretary ' s special representatives .
accordingly , the common position roundly condemns the ongoing discrimination against women in afghanistan and other human rights violations that take place there .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 6.00 p.m .
two other community citizens have also been freed today .
nevertheless , colombia is clearly a country that deserves our attention .
i think this is a good time to highlight the need for the european union to draw up a comprehensive policy on latin america which could perhaps prevent these countries from regularly going through the crisis situations that some of them have experienced .
at the moment , for example , there is a colombian priest , oliveiro medina , who is in brazil .
his extradition to colombia could put his life in danger because we have already seen , in the last resolution on colombia that we discussed , that more than 24 human rights defenders have recently been murdered there .
unfortunately , we may have to discuss it again , but i think that the european union should have a fundamental role - as manolo medina was saying - in latin america in general .
mr president , i would like to share in the happiness of my compatriots and fellow members who have talked of their satisfaction at the freeing of the spanish jesuit alejandro matos and of other community citizens .
we cannot forget that , in the past year , 2 075 people have been kidnapped in colombia by the guerrillas , and we must express our concern for the violent situation that it is experiencing , particularly in the north , in the santander region - a jungle region whose border with venezuela is , moreover , very easily penetrated - where the constant clashes between guerrillas and paramilitaries are increasing , with many road blocks and frequent murders .
i therefore think that we should reiterate our support for a peaceful solution to the colombian conflict , in which the actions of the drug cartels have a dramatic influence .
the european union must therefore support the initiatives by president andres pastrana , aimed at achieving a negotiated peace between his government and the guerrilla groups , the far ( revolutionary armed forces ) and the so-called national liberation army .
mr president , the issue of colombia is something that really has not been properly addressed in the european union .
not so very long ago there was a resolution on the situation of the peace community in san jose de apartado .
the commission is deeply concerned about the escalation of violence in colombia , particularly in respect of the massacres perpetrated recently by paramilitary forces in the so-called peaceful communities of san jose de apartado .
furthermore , the commission has proposed organising in brussels a follow-up meeting to the donors conference that took place on 7 july in madrid .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 6.00 p.m .
as several speakers have indicated , i can inform you that after good news from colombia about the release of the jesuit priest , and following agreement between the political groups , the motions for resolutions on this issue are withdrawn .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i think this resolution is important because it refers to a positive decision by the macedonian government , and unfortunately not by all the political forces of macedonia , on the law on higher education which will at last allow young people from minorities , in particular the albanian minority , to study in their mother tongue .
it is regrettable that , at the request of the socialist group in particular , the text of the resolution does not mention their names , and i would like to point out to our socialist friends that their request , made in the name of a more general principle that political forces should not be cited , strikes me as rather unreliable given that , looking at the motion for a resolution on the middle east we are going to vote on today , we are frankly dealing with very specific situations and very specific players .
mr president , i would like to take up what mr dupuis had to say .
we have seen how the difficult situation in macedonia has steadily worsened where the treatment of the albanians is concerned .
all of those who , for a long time now , have been going in and out of this country , have kept up the pressure for this problem to be resolved .
not us , but the government under prime minister georgievski , and also the albanian leader , xhaferi , and above all , the representative of the council of europe , max van der stoel .
in common with olivier dupuis , i bitterly regret the fact that the opposition parties - which formed part of the government up until 1998 and could have resolved the problem - have closed their minds to this draft bill without offering a better solution themselves .
all those who want to see an improvement in the inter-ethnic relations in macedonia , in the interests of stabilisation , must now do their bit to help solve this problem and ensure that a private university actually becomes a reality .
that is a development which , in my view , deserves unqualified support from the european union .
i am proud of the fact , that this time round , the role of mr max van der stoel , the high representative for minorities of the osce , has proved crucial in this issue .
the former president , mr gligorov , was already a shining example of non-ethnic thinking , and the new president , too , has gained the trust of all groups of the population in macedonia .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , my group proposes to support the present motion , which we have also signed , because i believe it is right for the european union to support the solution that has been found in macedonia and which accommodates the albanian population .
i am convinced that this tiny country in the balkans deserves the undivided support of the european union and i trust that an association and stability agreement will be signed before the end of the french presidency .
the funding allocation is provided for in the financing proposal which is to be put forward today - possibly this very hour - to the phare administration committee .
the phare funding made available for the year 2000 under the national programme could also be used to support the university in the coming academic year , i.e .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 6.00 p.m .
we do not consider that everything is a mess in greece ; there are some very good ships and the overwhelming majority of greek seamen are very good at their job .
we have tabled the motion as an expression of our awareness of the issue and our intention to fight for greece to adopt even higher safety standards than the european union in order to correct this negative impression of our country .
three amendments have been proposed by the gue / ngl group , one on shipping registers , one on working conditions and one on an in situ investigation by the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we voted against a resolution on the sinking of the express samina under the urgent procedure the other day because a judicial inquiry is already under way in greece and the greek government had already made a number of statements on what needs to be done .
and they do not only concern greece .
which is why we are impatient to receive the recent decisions finally taken by the council and we are impatient to receive them in legislative form in parliament also , which is why we feel that it would be useful if a parliamentary committee were to go to greece and work with the authorities , agencies and professionals to see where the difficulties lie - it is the most experienced country when it comes to shipping - so that it can assist the european parliament in helping to improve , enhance and introduce stricter legislation for the safety of shipping throughout europe .
as far as my amendment on working conditions is concerned , there is a directive on this and the wording of the amendment is less satisfactory than the text .
and finally , the visit by the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism is not , i think , the answer to our prayers ; it is up to the european commission to investigate and ascertain if a community directive has been infringed , to hurry up with the case law which we want to see in order to make shipping safer and , finally , to do whatever needs to be done and , as i said , to investigate the matter of this famous competition committee .
on behalf of the socialist transport team , i regret the fact that this debate is taking place as an urgency .
this is not a concern solely for greece .
some of us have worked on the issue of ferry safety for many years , not least because other ferries in other parts of europe have also sunk with a tragic loss of life , be it the herald of free enterprise , the scandinavian star or , of course , most notoriously of all , the estonia in the 1990s .
mr president , commissioner , i would like to join the name of my own group in expressing sympathy and solidarity with the families of the deceased and the survivors of the shipwreck and gratitude also to those involved in the rescue operations .
but the issue cannot be localised in this way .
nor are such issues important only for those of us who come from areas where the sea is our highway or our place of work .
this is so , if only because , in the words of the early english poet , john donne , any man 's death diminishes me because i am part of mankind .
mr president , on behalf of my group , i , too , should like to add our condolences to the families who have lost loved ones in this tragedy .
as a member who represents scotland , i feel a particular sadness and concern too about these events .
both our countries have many island communities around our shores and as such the people of scotland 's islands felt a particular sense of shock following the recent events in greece .
we are fortunate in scotland not to have directly suffered the type of tragedy to hit greece but we are only too well aware that our waters are some of the most hazardous in europe .
the fact that the ill-fated ship was 34 years old and was not included on the list of ships which - and this too is wrong - were exempted from the additional inspections required under directive 98 / 18 / ac , is positive proof of the unaccountability of the shipping industry which always finds a way , for which governments and regulatory authorities are to blame , of getting round even these generally inadequate regulations , at the expense of passenger and shipping safety .
the legal framework for shipping in greece and in the european union in general has proven to be inadequate and dangerous and we need new , stricter rules , especially for very old ships , rules without derogations .
on the contrary , innocent victims are being exploited in order to promote shipowners ' wider objectives .
we call on the european parliament not to approve the suspension of cabotage by rejecting the reference to it in paragraph 5 of the joint resolution , on which our group has requested a separate vote , and for the european parliament to approve the involvement of crew representatives in regulatory authorities and shipping registers and the manning of ships in line with the real needs of cabotage by approving the amendments which we have tabled .
mr president , my group would also like to express its condolences to those involved in the samina express disaster .
the quality of both ships and staff under their flags is rather more notorious than renowned .
we cannot afford to make the same mistake again .
this resolution points us in the right direction .
the commission therefore contacted the greek authorities as soon as the express samina went down , requesting clarification of the application of community law .
the commission asked the greek authorities to check if the ships required to adopt the community ' s safety standards by 30 september had in fact done so .
as a result of the check requested by the commission , 60 ships were taken out of service pending proof of compliance with standards .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 6.00 p.m .
situation in the middle east - elections in yugoslavia the next item is the statement by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy on the situation in the middle east and the elections in yugoslavia .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , excuse me for having arrived a little late , for reasons that you are well aware of , in order to make a brief declaration on the two matters on the agenda : the situation in belgrade and in the former republic of yugoslavia in general , and the situation in the middle east .
unfortunately , this evening i am not going to be able to tell you anything positive on either of these two subjects .
as you know , there are currently around one million people on the streets of belgrade and the news that we are getting is that tension is mounting .
from the point of view of the european union , i think that the decision taken by the constitutional court is , once again , a violation of all the basic principles of a country that should have free elections .
the resolution passed by the constitutional court meant , once again , taking away the votes of citizens who have voted freely and obtained a majority .
i would like to say to you , on behalf of the european union and the council , that we consider professor kostunica to be the leader of the majority of the serbian people and that it is him who we are going to support and continue to support .
therefore , we also need to work within the united nations with the countries of the former yugoslavia in order to reach an agreement as soon as possible which , when serbia becomes free , could unblock economic aid through the international monetary fund and the world bank .
i would like to say - as you know - that the presidency has organised a summit in zagreb , which we hope will be a summit in which a democratic former republic of yugoslavia takes part , and that we want to include all the countries in building a balkans region that is stable , prosperous , with a european outlook and with its eyes on the future . ( applause ) this is what i can tell you at the moment .
but i do say to you - and i think that we have to continue to be firm about this - that president milosevic robbed his people of their freedom .
this is what we must say and we must do everything we can to prevent it from happening again . ( applause ) you have asked me to give you information on the latest events in the middle east , and unfortunately , in this case i am also unable to give you optimistic news .
for those of us who have had the very powerful experience of taking part in a great number of meetings over the summer , which resulted in the two sides coming much closer together than they ever have , it is all the more sad still to be seeing people and families torn apart and people suffering and dying in the streets of those countries that we are so fond of .
as you know , prime minister barak did not attend the meeting , and although there is this agreement , which has not been formalised , the situation in the territories is a little better .
i would once again like to make an appeal from this institution to everyone involved and , in particular , to the political leaders involved to make every effort to reduce the tension and , as quickly as possible , to return to the negotiating table , because their positions are not so different that they cannot come to an agreement .
during the elections on 24 september , the serbian people ousted milosevic and his regime .
we have always made it clear that we would radically revise our policy towards serbia if the serbian people voted at the elections in favour of the opposition and , hence , democratic change .
we made it clear - and i should like to reaffirm this - that any decision in favour of democratic change would also be a decision to return to europe .
allow me to say loud and clear : europe unreservedly supports the democratic opposition in serbia .
we call for the voice of the serbian people to be heard and respected and we share its burning desire to see the back of milosevic and his cohorts , who have brought so much suffering and unhappiness to so many , both in serbia and in several other countries .
it will give the serbian people the chance to rejoin the european family of nations and to build a peaceful and stable future together with its neighbours .
the message which parliament must send can only be to urge milosevic one more time , perhaps for the last time , to see the writing on the wall , step down and pave the way for democratic change in serbia . ( applause ) i should like to make a few comments on the dramatic and rapid developments in the middle east .
obviously , this crisis may have dangerous repercussions on the peace process .
after that , the stability of prime minister barak ' s government will be in jeopardy and there will be tremendous pressure on president arafat to declare statehood .
i hope that the meeting between president mubarak , president arafat and prime minister barak in sharm el sheik will mark a return to constructive negotiation on a lasting peace agreement .
israel ' s long-term interests lie in lasting peace .
we must convince the palestinians that the best way of achieving their objectives and safeguarding their rights is to negotiate with israel .
we support the parties in negotiating an agreement in keeping with the principles and references of the peace process set in motion in madrid .
madam president , mr solana , commissioner , i take part in this debate with certain reservations because i do not want this parliament giving the impression that it is sitting in judgment , casting anathema on this or that person when , after such great hopes were raised here only a month ago , we face the dramatic consequences of this new explosion of violence in the middle east .
the forces of israel and palestine are not so lucky .
we all know that is the crux of the matter and we have not forgotten the interesting proposals we have heard on this subject in this very chamber , which deserve our support .
madam president , i think that this joint debate , which is really a topical and urgent debate because we are talking about something that is taking place now , firstly requires a strong declaration with which the three institutions can identify .
we have to face up to and shoulder our responsibilities as the european union , not only regarding the problems that we are dealing with , but also regarding the major issues of world peace .
at the moment , we have the belgrade parliament in flames - we know what setting a parliament on fire means in the context of european history , and we know the responsibility held by leaders that lead their people to disaster .
we are against the leaders who have surely led them to the greatest disaster in their history .
we should not allow the leaders who wish to radicalise the process and the extremist forces to drive it towards disaster , particularly based on a symbolic provocation in one of the most sacred places in the world , an issue we discussed last month in the debate on the future of jerusalem .
madam president , my contribution today is not based on all kinds of theoretical analyses but on my own experiences over the past week , because i happened to be in jerusalem and the gaza strip when the disturbances took place .
on the one hand , there is a state and an army occupying a territory in breach of all international laws and , on the other , there is a people who is tired of suffering and humiliation .
in my opinion , europe can and must do a great deal in this direction , and it must be clear and resolute .
the latest reports i have received - and i regret i may have to leave parliament to go to paris immediately - are that the parliament building has been taken over by the demonstrators in belgrade and the television building is now in the hands of the opposition .
i would like to ask parliament at this critical hour to issue a statement of support for the brave people who have , today , defended freedom and liberty in the streets of belgrade , echoing the support which we europeans gave not many years ago to sustain those people in other capitals who were also fighting for their freedom .
that has allowed us to start a new process in the european union , opening the doors to those countries which , for historical reasons , are not part of this institution .
let us hope that this moment is the moment of truth , and that freedom will be in the streets of belgrade soon .
i have been recalled by the presidency to be in paris as soon as possible .
madam president , the bloody confrontations which have taken place in the last few days in jerusalem , the gaza strip , the west bank and israel are particularly serious , because of the high numbers of victims and also because they have brought renewed talk of exclusion as regards the state of israel , talk that we thought belonged to the past and which is dangerously irresponsible .
the events of the last few days demonstrate exactly how fragile the peace process is .
the palestinian leaders are in a no-win situation .
madam president , the peace process in the middle east is extremely fragile .
such a situation requires tact .
to this end , my group has tabled two amendments to the resolution to that effect .
i call on this parliament to follow the biblical line : pray for peace in jerusalem so that the jews and arabs can live together in peace .
madam president , over the last few days , we have watched the dream of peace in the middle east disintegrate .
madam president , i think the text of this resolution is a perfect demonstration that europe will never act as a mediator between israel and palestine .
once again , there is confusion between , on the one hand , a democratic state doing its best to deal with an extremely difficult situation and , on the other , the institution at the heart of palestine which , under provocation certainly , immediately takes up arms to shoot at the israeli forces of order .
the results of the elections on 24 september have made a democratic change of direction possible .
since 24 september , milosevic can no longer claim to be an elected ruler .
the people in serbia have expressed their will in democratic elections and they are painfully aware of the fact that milosevic has no intention of respecting this will and is thinking only of hanging on to power and maintaining his contemptuous regime .
those who have fought for peace in south-eastern europe for years now and who are familiar with the situation in the region , know how difficult the fight against authoritarian rulers and tyrants in most of these countries was and , in places , still is .
sometimes we expect too much of the new people in power or we expect them to follow our views and our way of thinking , which do not fit in with their traditions and which are irreconcilable with their philosophy of life or alien to their mindset .
i should therefore like to state quite clearly that we shall soon have new contacts in serbia , who may well not understand us immediately or who will perhaps misunderstand us , partly due to inexperience and partly due to the cultural or structural differences which i have mentioned .
if we want to give the implementation of the stability pact a real boost after the imminent change of power in serbia and push the so-called quick start packages through at long last , then we must do more than just talk .
mr dupuis , you have abused this truly historic moment here in order to engage in political demagogy .
secondly , we are in a very delicate position and , therefore , we too trust that there will be fast changes in yugoslavia and serbia , because the situation is not easy in either montenegro or kosovo .
what we are seeing on cnn is more than the fall of milosevic .
serbia is suffering the final pangs of fascism on the fringes of our own union .
there is of course the support of hundreds of thousands of people - the figure of one million has even been mooted - who are prepared at this moment to put themselves at risk in order to support the opposition and to help mr kostunica against the wishes of mr milosevic .
i wholeheartedly support the proposal and appeal by doris pack to reach the decision quickly , in fact as quickly as possible , to lift the sanctions , because these have done far more harm than good .
finally , i would like to propose that a delegation from parliament visit serbia at the earliest opportunity , and once a new yugoslavian government has been installed , so that we , in tandem with this new government , can make plans for the reconstruction of a new serbia .
our group has confidence in our president and in the declaration which we have agreed she should make .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , it is clear that today may well turn out to be a historic day in this parliament , possibly ushering in the end of one of the last buttresses of a totalitarian dictatorship in europe .
the high representative explained this only a moment ago , but what we can do is to selectively lift sanctions by way of sending a message to the serbian electorate .
i hope that the council , in conjunction with the commission , will take clear measures in this respect in the short term .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place shortly .
indeed , while i regret a certain ambiguity in the wording and while i do not accept the failure to mention that there is a multitude of palestinian groups prepared to do anything to wipe out the state of israel and the israelis by means of violence and war , it is my very friendship for the israelis that makes me implore them to end the armed repression against children .
it is also my friendship for israel and my esteem for the palestinians that makes me implore them to do everything possible to achieve peace , even if that means great sacrifice on both sides .
their security and their medium- and long-term existence are at stake and no doubt world peace too , at this moment .
the european parliament wishes to express its total solidarity with them at this historic time , as tyranny crumbles and democracy emerges triumphant .
last week , on 24 september , an extremely important referendum was held , in which the danes rejected the single currency .
the loans are not guaranteed one hundred percent and the council decided in december 1999 to guarantee just 65 % of the final total for loans for the period 2000-2007 .
there is a special guarantee fund in the union budget for loans from the eib .
in 2000 a maximum of 204 million euros can be transferred from the reserve to the guarantee fund .
the guarantee fund can also be used to guarantee the euratom loans to support the development of core industries in non-member countries , although no transfers from the reserves to the guarantee fund have had to be organised for these sorts of loans in recent years .
in december 1999 the council decided the maximum amount for guarantees for the investment bank for the period 2000-2007 , and produced a list of non-member countries that would be entitled to receive aid .
the european parliament adopted a position on the matter in a report by mrs ruhle in autumn 1999 .
mr president , this proposal for a council decision with a view to extending , for the first time , the community guarantee for the european investment bank undoubtedly has a truly extraordinary scope .
given this context and bearing in mind the narrow margin of the loan guarantee reserve , which is set at eur 200 million per year , there is no reason why we should not discuss the priority uses of this margin in coming years .
in july the commission freed 10 million euros to support the repatriation of refugees .
the proposal under discussion contains a target figure of 250 million euros in eib loans for croatia for the period 2000-2007 .
the european union and the european parliament have every reason to support positive developments in the balkans .
this is why it is possible to pick up where we left off in 1995 .
it is therefore only justified that the mandate of the european investment bank will be increased by 250 million .
it is therefore not quite accurate for the report to talk in terms of democratisation .
the environment in the large population concentrations in zagreb , rijeka and osijek is at risk .
the comment which my colleague mr papayannakis made yesterday about admitting serbia to the european union should also apply to croatia .
we have every intention of recognising these democratic elections and the electoral victory of vojislav kostunica .
of course my country , austria , in common with all the other european countries , will also have to do its bit towards the reconstruction of yugoslavia , in tandem with the european union .
but we are all agreed , nonetheless , that the parliamentary and presidential elections that took place in january 2000 have produced a new political climate .
in july , the european commission forwarded the draft of a negotiating mandate to the member states , for them to comment on .
taking account of those advances last may , the commission produced a positive feasibility report on the opening of negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement with croatia and on 19 july recommended opening negotiations .
the proposal before the house would cover up to eur 250 million of lending over the next four years .
thank you , mr fatuzzo .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 6 october 2000 .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting the minutes of the previous sitting have been distributed .
let me mention their names and , in commemorating them , express our compassion and sympathy at this time of sadness to the members of their families : luis portero , chief public prosecutor of the regional court of andalucia , murdered in granada on 9 october ; antonio munos carignanos , a colonel and doctor in the spanish air force , murdered in seville on 16 october ; maximo casado , a prison service employee , murdered yesterday morning in vitoria .
these victims take the number of eta murder victims since the cease-fire was broken on 3 december 1999 to a total of sixteen .
the right to life is sacrosanct .
i would ask you , ladies and gentlemen , to pay tribute to these victims by observing a minute ' s silence , and to lend our support to the authorities and to democrats in spain in their fight against this scourge , a fight that often puts their lives in jeopardy .
tomorrow , this house will discuss this sensitive issue as part of its debate on the biarritz european council , but today i should just like to express my deep sadness at a phenomenon that we find disturbing in the extreme , since it is a tragic illustration of the baleful influence of the extremists on both sides .
the day before yesterday , in spain , heavy rain and flooding was also to blame for the deaths of three people , with three others reported missing .
madam president , in connection with your words on the middle east , i would like to announce an initiative conceived by some of the female members of parliament - nuala ahern , pasqualina napoletano , ana palacio vallelersundi , ulla sandbaek and myself - who have asked other women to go with us to jerusalem to meet with palestinian and israeli women who , in recent years , have never stopped trying to communicate with one other and build bridges of peace .
madam president , last week , the mep karla peijs was attacked in brussels .
madam president , there are more victims of eta , but there are also more victims of the spanish repression : more arrests , more people tortured , new dispersals of political prisoners jailed in the basque country .
our rules of procedure do not admit any points of order at this juncture .
the problem is determining whether a matter is grounds for a procedural motion or not .
i think applying the minute rule is the least damaging solution , in the final analysis , as we have , in fact , seen .
i know that it would not be usual for parliament to hold another minute 's silence - and i would not be so bold as to propose this - but i wanted you to be informed of the development , for antonio russo was a journalist and a very brave man who gave his life for the freedom of information for all people .
madam president , pursuant to the second paragraph of rule 7 ( 4 ) of our rules of procedure , the president is bound to refer the matter to the committee on legal affairs and the internal market before ratifying the decision of the french government .
the council of state ruling , which you will perhaps be invoking as a defence very shortly , was issued by a body which has no jurisdiction in the matter , whereas french law stipulates that only plenary is competent to rule on the subject of the mandate of a member of the european parliament .
in the course of this procedure , madam president , the parliamentary immunity of our fellow member , jean-marie le pen , has been violated from start to finish .
i do not see how you can cite the charter of fundamental rights , as you did a short time ago , without actually implementing it in the exercise of your office .
madam president , between 3 october 2000 and yesterday , at least seven memorials were desecrated , eight people were subjected to racist attacks , four hostels for asylum seekers were set upon , and seven synagogues , jewish cemeteries or memorials were desecrated in the federal republic of germany .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , we have the opportunity to take a great step towards your dream , one i do not , however , personally share .
mr lannoye wishes to speak as the author of this request .
we think , given that for the moment we are at the conciliation stage with regard to the framework directive on gmos , that it would be wiser to await the conclusion of these conciliation proceedings and to deal with this problem once the framework has been clearly defined , which should , in principle , be in the month of january .
the report was adopted in the committee on agriculture and rural development by a good majority and with only two votes against .
it will obstruct the trade in vine material in europe , and so i believe that in the interests of the single market for europe ' s vine propagators , we must vote on our report . ( parliament rejected the request ) relating to tuesday : madam president , on behalf of my group , i would like to move that a particular item be included in tomorrow morning ' s debate , namely a statement from the commission about an interview that commissioner verheugen gave to the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung last friday , 20 october .
mr poettering , in tomorrow ' s debate , every speaker will be free to raise any issue and to address both the council and the commission .
madam president , the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , having deliberated at its sitting of 15 and 16 may , agreed to recommend that the announcement in plenary of parliament ' s confirmation of the removal of mr jean-marie le pen ' s mandate be suspended .
and i am quoting word for word from the letter dated 17 may that you yourself , madam president , read in plenary .
as its name indicates , it is an act of the prince , which does not affect the decree from the french government which , in accordance with the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , must be announced in plenary .
thank you , mrs palacio .
consequently , pursuant to article 12 ( 2 ) of the act of 20 september 1976 on the election of representatives to the european parliament by direct universal suffrage , the european parliament hereby takes note of the notification by the french government of the termination of mr jean-marie le pen ' s mandate .
madam president , this issue arises from a request ( announced by yourself to the house on 17 february ) by the appropriate portuguese authorities seeking a waiver of the immunity of mr pacheco pereira in respect of proceedings in portugal concerning words spoken on a television programme some years ago .
the immunities of members of the house arise under article 10 of the protocol of the privileges and immunities of the european communities .
therefore , under our rules , he enjoys immunity which can be waived only by decision of this parliament .
rather , it is an immunity asserted by this house as a whole , in the interests of preserving the conditions of effective , democratic politics and argument and of enabling this house , through its members , to discharge its function properly in an all-europe democracy .
personally , i was not able to intervene to condemn these actions in that it concerned members of my own party who have always been political targets , and my involvement would therefore have appeared exploitative .
the lisbon summit has given us the opportunity to lend more weight to social policy ; we must seize that opportunity with both hands .
hence our urgent appeal in favour of the introduction of a social scoreboard , similar to the one already in use in the internal market , which details specific measures , expiry dates and deadlines .
this issue provoked intense interest in societies throughout europe and the committee on women ' s rights has taken account in its opinion of the numerous proposals submitted by representatives of non-governmental organisations and civil society in general .
the committee on women ' s rights maintains that the social agenda must focus all its ideas and projects on the qualitative and quantitative participation in the job market of women of all ages and from all social strata and must therefore give priority to any measures which facilitate access to work , the sort of measures to which we refer in our opinion , such as making it easier to combine professional and family lives or other personal choices .
the committee on women ' s rights also proposes that women of all ages and from all social strata should have access to an adequate and dignified system of social protection .
mr president , commissioner , rapporteurs , ladies and gentlemen of the house , let me firstly thank you , mr president , for this personalised introduction .
the european parliament resolution on the social agenda which you are just about to adopt is a very ambitious contribution to our joint exercise .
let me first make some general remarks on the social agenda before covering the various individual areas , in a very succinct way , as befits my allotted speaking time .
the agenda is , of course , in keeping with the lisbon conclusions and the future european charter of fundamental rights , to ensure its effective implementation .
the areas of action listed in the commission communication were also subject to general agreement .
i think we should adopt a pragmatic approach and overcome any misguidedly ideological rifts .
here , too , i noted unanimity on the need to continue and step up the luxembourg process in the context of the objectives established at the european council in lisbon .
let me , at this point , remind you that there will be a european seminar on this subject on 4 and 5 december in biarritz , which i shall be chairing .
on the subject of the equality of men and women , many member states stressed the need for a better coordination of work and family life , particular with regard to childcare .
to stay on this subject a moment , your resolution provides for many measures in favour of women and contains one general objective to include the concept of male-female equality in all the sectors covered by the agenda .
as you perhaps know , on 27 october , i am holding a ministerial symposium on this subject .
you can count on me to make every effort to complete the task successfully and to support the financial commitment of eur 50 million .
i also noted a strong desire for definition of a genuine community strategy on the working environment , particularly concerning health and safety .
we all agree that we should pursue the strategy of cooperation in social protection , paying special attention , as we were urged at lisbon , to the issue of pensioners .
at the employment and social policy council held on 17 october , a great deal of progress was made in the fight against exclusion by defining appropriate objectives for the fight against poverty and social exclusion , which will serve as a foundation for national action plans .
the agenda could also give an opinion on the follow up to be given to the 1992 recommendation on minimum resources .
this is the aim of this report and we have tried to emphasise this in a number of amendments .
in our group , we have always set great store by the social market economy as a basis for everything we do , also within the framework of the european union .
it would have been very wrong on the part of this parliament not to make any mention of these points , but i am aware that we have not yet solved all the problems related to these points .
i think there are some problems left unsolved , but these will need to be addressed in the course of the votes on the amendments .
for us the open coordination method is very important .
i am glad to hear what nicole perry had to say to us today in that respect .
paragraph 14 lists a number of points we think are important .
again i was pleased to hear what nicole perry has said today .
in our view , open coordination is the correct route to go down if we are to secure a social europe .
her contribution has been very constructive , and if my group is sceptical about a number of the main elements in her report , that is because we disagree politically , and that is , of course , understandable .
specifically , open coordination must be open both in the choice of resources and in the way in which everyone concerned is involved .
we have no right to miss this deadline unless we intend to shatter the expectations of all the citizens and the collective movements they have formed , which are the groups most motivated to establish a european union which is a community of citizens .
as far as that is concerned , the directive proposed in the report in order to guarantee the social protection of new forms of working is essential .
mr president , there really is a need for a social agenda in europe after many years of neo-liberal economic policy which has lead to unemployment and social exclusion everywhere , including in my own affluent country , sweden .
finally , i would just add that i am not a co-author of amendment no 35 as stated in the document with the amendments .
from an irish perspective i would like to say to the members of the house that one of the reasons why there has been such strong economic progress in our country is the fact that we have had a system of social partnership in place since 1987 .
however , the european union is catching up fast and the implementation of a broad range of telecommunications directives and regulations would certainly assist in this process .
due to the fact that we have wasted another 40 minutes today on a debate about the rules of procedure , we are now hopelessly behind schedule .
however , the report says something slightly different : whereas lisbon calls for a reform of the social model , it calls for reinforcement ; whereas lisbon calls for liberation of enterprise and more flexibility , the report proposes four new or amended directives and a number of legislative initiatives .
the debate today and in the committee shows that there are major political differences and major differences in ambition in this area , and i think it good that these differences should be clearly brought out .
in some cases , we need the open coordination method .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i feel that the lisbon summit has presented us with a picture of a future europe which cannot , which must not be purely an economic europe , but which must be a genuine political entity .
i would therefore like to join my fellow members in congratulating anne van lancker on her report , which opens up new perspectives , with an approach which aims for greater precision and greater coherence .
moreover , at a time when a great many employees of major european industrial groups face redundancy plans in the context of mergers and restructuring , i think it important for the report on the social agenda to take a stand in favour of taking social clauses into consideration in competition policy , in favour of directives to this end and in favour of a revision of the european works council directive as well as the directive on redundancies .
i would like to raise a criticism in connection with the lack of initiatives produced in response to the new challenges we face in health and safety at work , employee participation and labour relations .
as the rapporteur , mrs van lancker , emphasises , although social dialogue is important , it must produce tangible results .
i would like to particularly stress the benefit which , in terms of employment , can be obtained by women through giving them improved access to employment with guarantees in terms of working time and salary .
i think that there is also a great advantage , if we succeed in getting the directive applied , modified and updated , with regard to maternity leave : for women to receive help during maternity and for maternity to be protected when women have to continue working during that period .
i also think that it will be very positive in terms of helping women to reconcile family and working life .
all these coordinated social policy actions will also help to combat poverty and social exclusion .
we support a pact for employment and social cohesion , a european action plan for employment with a view to boosting the social economy and local employment initiatives , social regulations for new forms of working such as tele-working and new forms of self-employment , the minimum wage , and guaranteed income .
i hope , minister , that in nice the french presidency will succeed in pushing through an ambitious social agenda , since embarking on the construction of a social europe is still the great hope of all our fellow citizens .
the first is that , since lisbon , the new approach to social policy is to deal with it not as a product or by-product of economic policy , but as a policy in its own right which needs to be exercised in tandem with economic policy and the employment strategy .
a set of projects and proposals on employment .
i think that what we are endeavouring to achieve through the employment strategy , by strengthening and enriching it as we progress - because the entire social agenda is a process of dynamic change - is to support competitiveness and entrepreneurship in the european union and flexibility on the job market , alongside security , mobility and new working models , and to support and analyse new social partnership models and the impact of competitiveness and major restructuring on employment and the social state .
the second strand to the social agenda is a set of projects on social policy .
clearly we have a fairly complete legislative system in europe , but changes on the job market , changes in the economy , changes in the environment due to globalisation and the information society are throwing up new requirements .
when we need to deal with these new requirements with legislation , we shall not , of course , have any hesitation in doing so .
the problem is that , because of the legal basis which it has in the treaty , the social agenda does not constitute a set of laws , a set of directives with specific steps for the member states .
and one last comment : the question of sexual equality runs right through the social agenda as regards both the political approach and the content and means .
thank you , commissioner , for your interesting speech .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m .
the commission ' s communication affirms that democracy is a fundamental value of the eu member states , the eea states and the candidate countries , as well as a key part of external relations and development cooperation in the union .
we believe that 40 per cent of the structural funds should be earmarked to focus on women ' s conditions and needs .
the commission ' s proposed measures should be expanded to include reviews of individual access to medical and health care and to social security and pensions , an analysis of shortcomings in the organisation of work and perhaps also a study of the significance of a general reduction in working hours .
what we mean in the committee by strategy is , of course , not the commission ' s opening gambit , but that strategy beginning as from paragraph 2 ( ' the strategy ' ) .
it is therefore important that non-governmental organisations should obtain influence in the course of implementation .
we think it is extremely important to promote a positive image of women and visibility of their work and importance .
mr president , commissioner , we have had the fourth framework programme , and today we are discussing the fifth .
therefore it is still our goal for the next five years to consolidate the position of women in the policies of all member states , both in terms of quality and content .
problems to do with access to social security must be looked at on a case-by-case basis to this end .
the european parliament , the national parliaments and networks must therefore become more closely involved .
this programme is therefore conditional on funds totalling eur 50 million being made available for the period from 2001 to 2005 .
we must invest our energies in the realisation and implementation of the planned programmes , and this must go hand in hand with well-timed evaluations and coordination with other programmes .
women ' s policy must also be a criteria used to assess whether the candidate countries are ready for accession .
the european parliament could lead the way here by setting a better example .
women ' s policy is not - as happens so often - to be incorporated into programmes for minorities .
this could work if the framework strategy were an integral part of the programme , as an annex to it .
there has not been a shortage of good ideas or good plans to achieve equality in the past but their implementation has often failed .
the involvement of local and regional authorities in this process is invaluable .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , no one is disputing that we should strive for greater equity between men and women .
in this respect , in new york , very distinct differences between the european union and poland emerged .
a decision of this type would be like a breath of fresh air to the strange alliances which too closely bind a number of pressure groups to the european commission and to some political groups in this house .
this is something my group will take into consideration in its final vote . ( applause from the uen group ) mr president , we are aware of the progress that has been made in recent years with regard to the situation of women , particularly the legislative progress , but there are still situations of real inequality in everyday life .
the low level of representation of women in political and economic spheres and gender-related violence are two clear signs that structural discrimination against women is continuing .
this programme will undoubtedly help to ensure that the concerns , needs and aspirations of women are taken into account in all policies .
the current situation requires that positive action measures in favour of women be implemented .
the objectives that the programme sets out in five specific areas will help to ensure that all the action taken will be associated with at least one of those areas .
participation in economic life , which women should enjoy under equal conditions to men , employment , which is the basis for all equality and integration , and achieving the 60 % target proposed at the lisbon summit , would also solve other problems .
equality in participation and representation , balance in the decision-making process , greater participation in political life , whatever the process adopted , in order to achieve an increase in the participation of women , until we reach the 40 % figure proposed by the commission .
equal access and full enjoyment of social rights for women and men , which would mean ensuring that the legislation is applied in the social sphere in terms of maternity leave , maternity protection , working time , employment contracts , etc .
equality between women and men in civil life , allowing women to fully enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms .
in relation to this objective we will support the organisation of awareness campaigns and a european equality week in cooperation with the member states , as the commission proposes .
we think that it is very useful to create a web site , not only due to the increasing use of computerised media , but because this will help women to familiarise themselves more and more with this new world from which they must not be excluded .
something that we think is of particular importance is the evaluation of the programme ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i believe we are now discussing commissioner diamantopoulou ' s second tour de force .
with the framework strategy and the new action programme in place , the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities - working under intense time pressure , and restricted to only a few official languages - has now , with a great deal of good will , introduced 60 proposed amendments .
i hope that the president-in-office of the council , nicole pery , will be able to get through the programme in the council in november .
mr president , following the first four action programmes for equality between women and men , it was a good move on the part of the commission to innovate by proposing a community framework strategy for equality and a programme to implement this strategy and make real progress towards equality .
i find the commission ' s new approach to be a very positive one , and the proposal for a decision for the 2001-2005 programme to have been well considered .
it is a very serious mistake , in politics , to mix strategy up with tactics or with programmes .
i am also of the opinion that the appropriations for the european women ' s lobby , budget line a 3037 , should not be included in the appropriations committed for the programme and i hope that the commissioner will favour the amendments that i and the other members of my group have tabled , above the rapporteur ' s own far-fetched amendments .
this programme is an important document for the committee on women ' s rights , which is why it provoked a great deal of interest and , of course , it forms part of the more overall strategy which was discussed with the committee on women ' s rights , the committee on social affairs and the council .
it is the familiar 5-pronged strategy of participation of women in economic life , at the decision-making centres , in social policy , in civil society and in human rights , together with the new model of gender equality for the mass media and education .
we are also able to accept parts of amendments nos 3 , 7 , 8 , 11 , 14 , 15 , 20 , 27 , 35 , 37 , 45 , 50 , 53 , 57 and 58 .
i think that the large number of amendments accepted is illustrative of the meeting of minds between the commission and the committee on women ' s rights .
it is not possible for the entire strategy to form part of the council decision , but i agree that some amendments could be made to the wording of the articles in order to make it perfectly clear that this strategy has been taken into account and forms the basis on which the programme will be implemented .
i really do believe that the strategy behind this programme , the main objective of which is to implement mainstreaming in all policies , is a huge challenge for all of us , both at commission level , with the cooperation between the individual committees which we need in order to obtain a final result , and at national level , with the need for horizontal action in every ministry so that the women ' s policy becomes a horizontal policy .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
it is a splendid piece of work that commissioner monti and his staff carried out last year .
in my report on the twenty-ninth report on the commission ' s competition policy , i expended particular energy on the problems concerning mergers and the repayment of state aid .
the world is not , of course , always so easy for those who have to follow the rules and procedures we are involved in devising .
quite simply , a period of between 25 and 35 months is too long in our global village for getting a case through the courts , and what is very time consuming is having the documents of the case translated .
the other subject i raised in my report is that of state aid and the repayment of state aid which has been awarded unlawfully .
i should also like to thank my fellow meps in committee for the splendid way in which they have cooperated in connection with my report .
i should like to begin somewhat unusually by congratulating the commission on a document it published back in june 1999 - the community rules on state aid , what i might call the " idiot 's guide " to the operation of the state aid scheme .
turning now to the eighth survey : although there has been a reduction in the overall level of state aid during the period concerned , this can in fact be attributed to a minority of member states and , taken overall , ten member states have seen levels of state aid increase .
that is important in terms of the need for transparency .
i would ask him how he sees the debate on enlargement in view of the fact that , on the one hand , we must ensure that we have a common regime across all states within the european union and , on the other hand , it must be the case that some of the candidate countries have particular difficulties in adjusting to new open market conditions .
i would also make the point to commissioner monti that it is important that in the next survey we see a rather larger section on the financial services sector .
i should like to congratulate him on a speech he made in barcelona in september - and i am very grateful to his staff for sending a copy of the speech to me - devoted as it was to his view on the synergy between state aid control and the financial services sector .
for instance , during the period of time of this report , no state aid was given to the coal sector in the uk and yet we all know that significant aid is currently being proposed by the uk government .
it is quite clear that throughout the report itself much attention has been directed not just to the past but also to commissioner monti ' s proposals for future reform of competition policy .
commissioner monti will be very well aware of the concerns that are shared by many people who support his proposals for reform but feel that there need to be answers in relation to issues like jurisdiction shopping , legal certainty , the role of national courts , dialogue between the national competition authorities and the commission itself , as also issues of staffing within the commission .
i will take the precaution , commissioner - in case you should want to point out that this in fact falls within commissioner palacio ' s remit - of saying that i am addressing the commission as a whole .
the support is still there .
but if you carry on in this vein , you risk losing the support of not insignificant sections of the house .
paragraph 16 of mrs riis-jrgensen ' s report talks of increased legal certainty where applications for mergers are concerned , together with more effective and shorter timeframes within which to appeal before courts .
the second paragraph i want to mention is paragraph 18 .
it is of general relevance , but its point of departure is the planned merger between motor manufacturers volvo and scania .
as is well known , the commission opposed this merger , which in turn led to an extensive debate about how the rules of competition operate and how market shares are to be calculated and assessed .
commissioner monti , on behalf of the italian radicals , i too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the two sound reports they have produced , which commend both your work and the work of the directorate-general for competition .
however , we cannot be satisfied with this response if we want europe to become a more competitive and more open market in the future and - dare i say it - if we study carefully certain situations which are developing , in which even the current rules would allow us to intervene .
in many cases , they are companies which operate entirely or in part with considerable legal monopolistic reserves .
by way of example , deutsche post has recently gained control of dhl international and is operating under a monopoly for dispatches up to 200 grams , and then , on a more general note , we could cite the diversification of the state postal companies in other sectors ; edf ( electricite de france ) has taken over companies in britain , sweden and finland , france telecom has taken over orange ; on the italian side of things , enel has taken over infostrada and , still in the italian context , we could mention the various companies owned by local authorities which are behaving in a similar fashion .
mr president , we welcome the modernisation of the competition policy which , in terms of set-up , has undergone little change since the sixties .
if we want to avoid a chaotic and unwieldy bureaucracy in brussels , then we have no choice but to embrace decentralisation .
i am delighted about the special attention being paid to the position of large undertakings in small member states in paragraph 18 of the motion for a resolution .
finally , the book by your predecessor , and former commissioner , mr van miert , entitled " mijn jaren in europa " [ my years in europe ] gives some idea of the blackmail-like tactics which a competition commissioner comes up against .
competition is therefore always a means to an end .
it is a vital cornerstone of our model , in terms of political order , of the socio-economic market economy .
the community ' s competition policy has been given a new european and international dimension .
this is certain , but if each and every one of us is honest , we have to admit that in our public life we have often defended state aid when an undertaking has required it in order to establish itself , for example , in our constituency , or in order to prevent it from closing .
i began by saying this in order to highlight what is associated with some positions and to point out that when we are trying to issue a european parliament opinion on the annual report on state aid , the group of the europe people ' s party tries to conduct an ideological debate in this house on state aid in which it aims to go further than anyone and to demonise all types of aid .
the same occurs when the report insists , following the commission ' s line , that aid for coal did not serve to secure the future of the industry , but in the same paragraph they refuse to accept a sentence , also from the commission , saying that this aid was necessary in order to mitigate the social and regional impact of the restructuring of the sector .
in this respect , it is difficult for us to agree with a report which , although it reflects part of the truth , refuses to include another part of the truth .
however , in shaping european competition policy we have to ensure that it does not limit the opportunities for companies to succeed in the wider , global economy as well .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all let me express my deep disagreement with the excessively liberal , if not actually ultraliberal , tendencies of the report by our fellow member , mr evans .
it is therefore particularly apt to acknowledge three things in this debate .
firstly , the fact that a european charter of fundamental rights has now been drafted , article 16 of which establishes the right to entrepreneurial freedom .
thirdly therefore , i would like to congratulate the commission and its staff on the actions and decisions they have taken in the field of competition law , previously under karel van miert and now under your overall control , professor monti .
firstly , the member states have the right to define everything that belongs under this heading .
and obviously , mr president , although my opinion refers to the commission ' s 29th report on competition policy , it is inevitable at such a time that we will look to the past , but for no other reason than in order to learn for the future .
and also , of course , that the commission ' s policy , which we welcome and support in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , should not be shaped , in this process of decentralisation , to the detriment of small and medium-sized businesses , to the detriment of the citizens .
i will end with a phrase from john rawls , the philosopher of law : inequalities are always justified when they increase the level of the system and support the weakest without affecting fundamental rights .
on the subject of explaining competition policy , i would like to say that i am extremely pleased with the success of the first two european competition days , which were held in lisbon on 9 june and in paris on 17 october this year .
the idea was conceived in this parliament and developed by parliament and the commission .
mr president , in the time available to me , i would like to focus on the following three points : the modernisation of community competition law , the practical application of competition rules in 1999 and state aid .
the annual report on competition policy emphasises the need to modernise the legislative and interpretative framework of community competition law in the areas of both monopolies and state aid .
as far as monopolies are concerned , the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on the matter on 27 september last .
as you know , on 9 and 10 november , the commission and parliament are jointly organising a conference on this reform in freiburg , a conference proposed for the first time precisely in your resolution on the white paper .
my second point is the application of the competition rules during 1999 .
the third point is state aid .
mr president , i would now like to focus on at least some of the specific points raised .
the recourse to external expertise can be useful and already takes place in a number of cases .
it may , on occasion , be uncomfortable , but this is our task .
state aids have their place but it is a fact that in many cases the concrete manifestation of state aids goes well beyond what the treaty allows and what the guidelines allow .
of course , parliament has a very important role to play in this respect .
the financial assistance is currently governed by council regulation no 1969 of 1988 .
this mechanism can be activated either at the request of a member state or under article 119 of the treaty establishing the european community , a provision which remains in force during the third stage of economic and monetary union for the states which are covered by a derogation , currently denmark , the united kingdom and sweden .
the regulation and the proposal for a regulation have merged two mechanisms ( medium-term financial assistance and the community loan mechanism intended to provide medium-term financial assistance for member states ' balances of payments ) into a single facility providing medium-term financial assistance .
therefore , although the increase in convergence of states reduces the likelihood that the mechanism will be used , it must still have sufficient resources to meet the simultaneous needs of several countries , should this be necessary .
the aim of this commission report is to provide a basis for examining the single facility providing medium-term financial support and for revising it , should this prove necessary .
the financial mechanism implements article 119 of the ec treaty , which only remains in force during the third stage of economic and monetary union for the member states which are not participating in monetary union .
thirdly and finally , the drop in the number of member states who could now apply for this form of financial support and the need to cover the potential borrowing requirement of new member states justify lowering the mechanism 's ceiling from eur 16 billion to eur 12 billion .
the economic and financial committee has drawn up an opinion which it sent to the presidency on 14 july 2000 .
the debate is closed .
the vine propagating material provides the basis for optimal grape and wine production as regards quality , excellence and quantity , and establishes these factors over a period of 25 to 40 years .
the trade in , and marketing of , material for vegetative propagation of vines has , up to now , been laid down in directive 68 / 193 / eec dating from 1968 .
accordingly , the commission should publish a community catalogue of varieties , compiled on the basis of notifications from the member states .
the question as to whether genetically modified vines will be granted a permit at some future date , or whether this idea will be rejected by the wine producers and the wine trade , does not form part of today ' s discussion of the directive .
on 5 july , some of these issued the beaune declaration , expressing their great concern at the introduction of gmos into their sector .
finally , we must ensure that the new provisions on genetically modified varieties are in every respect compliant and compatible with existing texts , or texts in preparation , in this field .
the base legislation in force dates from 1968 , a long way back , and a great deal of progress had been made in this sector since then : new materials have been tried out , often using natural methods and sometimes genetic modification .
hence the urgent need for a modern regulation which recognises these new possibilities available to european vine growers and , at the same time , protects traditional varieties of vine .
the determination to amend the directive on the marketing of material for the vegetative propagation of the vine may look like a laudable initiative to update a rather technical text , which is 32 years old .
the very first lines of the klass report clearly stress the value , not just the economic value but also the cultural value , of grape and wine production .
in conclusion , ladies and gentlemen , in order to respect the precautionary principle in both spirit and letter , should the articles and amendments which i have just mentioned not be withdrawn , then , as the wine growers themselves demand , we would have to fall in with the opinion of marianne isler beguin , and the committee on the environment , and vote against them .
the committee on agriculture and rural development has tabled 26 amendments .
the commission is able to accept the majority of them , that is 24 out of 26 amendments , as they are currently worded or with minor changes relating to the way they are worded or presented .
for example , the proposal to recognise the specific characteristics of the genotype , referred to in amendments nos 4 , 12 , 15 , 16 and 20 , will be incorporated by changing the wording of the text .
with reference to the other two amendments , amendments nos 2 and 18 , we can only partially accept them for the reason that certain aspects are unjustifiably aggressive towards other countries - amendment 2 - or because the reference to the commission ' s obligation to provide greater resources should a common catalogue of varieties be compiled - amendment no 18 - is superfluous .
mr president , if you permit , i should like to ask the commissioner to give an opinion on the amendment put forward by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , amendment no 1 .
the debate is closed .
mr gollnisch , i can assure you that procedures have been respected absolutely , in both the spirit and the letter of article 12 ( 2 ) of the act of 20 september 1976 .
as you know , the committee on legal affairs advised me to wait for the decision from the council of state , which i did .
madam president , the minutes state that i spoke on the situation in spain .
informal european council in biarritz ( 13 / 14 october 2000 ) the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the informal european council in biarritz , held on 13 and 14 october 2000 .
let me expand on the issue of qualified majority voting .
i feel that we should also be able to make headway in the field of social affairs , on the proviso that we do not tamper with the principles that underpin the various national social security systems , which gives us some room for manoeuvre .
progress will also be possible in the field of external trade policy , but only when we find a way of dealing with the most sensitive issues on a specific basis and also avert a backdoor extension of community competences .
in the field of justice and home affairs , i am optimistic that a solution will be found concerning judicial cooperation in civil cases .
equally , they are all in agreement that these arrangements must remain open and accessible , that there is no question of moving towards a two-speed europe , that the institutional framework of the union must be respected and thus , in particular , the role of the commission and that of the european parliament , and , lastly , that there is a need to preserve the community acquis , which is to say the internal market and cohesion policies involving closer cooperation .
concerning the weighting of votes , the two well-known systems also remain on the table : a simple re-weighting , in favour of which a narrow , very narrow majority is emerging , or a double majority system , but with alternative options , a double simple or double re-weighted majority , in other words a type of ' demographic safety net ' .
it is clear that we will only be able to take a decision on these issues after negotiations have come to a close ; nevertheless , discussions based on detailed proposals must continue in order to prepare for the final decision at nice .
it also went into greater detail in its work on amending article 7 of the treaty in accordance with the positive guidelines laid down at biarritz .
the preparatory group is to play a full role up until 19 november , the date of the next ministerial level meeting .
i will now turn to international issues , which were also very much to the fore at biarritz .
i will simply point out that , right from the outset , the european union has called on both sides to strive to put an end to the violence , to reopen dialogue and safeguard what had been achieved at camp david , and the biarritz european council called both sides to a summit meeting .
the second event that stood out at biarritz , for the right reasons this time , was the return of democracy to serbia and , more than this , the repercussions of the political changes in belgrade on relations between that country and the european union .
the federal republic of yugoslavia will , of course , very soon benefit from the instruments that have been set in place by the union to cover the entire balkan region , beginning with the cards programme and also the activities of the european agency for reconstruction .
furthermore , the general affairs council confirmed the union ' s intention to contribute to re-establishing navigation on the danube and to actively participate in modernising infrastructures in the federal republic of yugoslavia within a regional context .
moreover , without prejudice to a needs assessment and the coordination of economic and financial assistance to the federal republic of yugoslavia , which are to be the joint responsibility of the european commission and the world bank , the biarritz european council decided to grant the federal republic of yugoslavia initial emergency humanitarian aid totalling eur 200 million .
lastly , and i will end here - this is without doubt the most important decision in the medium and long term - the union has decided to provide this country with a political prospect by proposing that it conclude a stabilisation and association agreement along the lines of those currently being negotiated with the other countries in the same region .
it was precisely with this in mind that president kostunica was invited , as you will be aware , to take part in the summit meeting between the european union and the countries of the western balkans , which is to be held in zagreb , at the instigation of the president of the french republic , on 24 november .
i feel that the important thing was for the union to very swiftly communicate to this country not only a tangible message of encouragement but also , and i would stress this point , the political prospect of its full and comprehensive integration into the european family .
there seemed to be a genuine sense of purpose and , in any event , the will to achieve real reform at nice .
much has been said , in the press and elsewhere , of the rift between larger states and smaller states , or less populous countries .
it is not even , it would seem to me , the central issue in these discussions if one recalls , and this is something that must be remembered and recalled , that ever since the process of european integration began , there has never been a case , either in the council or within the commission , of large countries forming a coalition against small countries , or of small states forming a coalition against large countries .
ladies and gentlemen , we must find a solution to these two issues , which will in fact only be resolved when negotiations are complete , and on which we must reach total agreement if that agreement is to mean anything at all .
with regard to the voting system , we must find a solution which respects - as both the commission and the european parliament have proposed - the twofold legitimacy of , on the one hand , the member states and , on the other , the peoples of europe .
the success or failure of the nice council will depend on the ability of the heads of state and government , and on the ability of parliament and the commission , as parties to the negotiations , to preserve or consolidate the community model .
i am referring here to article 250 , for which some would like to introduce qualified majority voting .
that , ladies and gentlemen , from my viewpoint as someone who , let me repeat in all modesty , is one of the humble workmen in these discussions , is what i say and think is the way to gauge whether or not genuine reform has been achieved in nice .
there is a need to reassure those who are worried that under no circumstances will the sovereignty of the member states in taxation matters be challenged , and to also tell those who have worries that the idea is not to merge social protection systems , especially from the bottom up , but simply to see to it that the common market and the single market run smoothly within an enlarged europe .
naturally , as regards all these areas , where the transition to qualified majority voting is involved , i would like to reiterate our intention to extend codecision where legislative matters are concerned .
i feel that the fundamental demands made by parliament and the commission will be met or honoured , and that on this point we will manage to secure the abolition of recourse to the european council , which is to say the right of veto , along with a lowering of the quorum to one third , or eight , of the member states in community matters .
i also feel that an agreement could be reached on another theme , on article 7 , taking as a basis or as pointers the proposals that the commission itself made to provide for vigorous community dialogue on legal matters , and community and political control of crises situations in which we might find ourselves due to the stance that one government or another adopts with regard to our common values .
we cannot stop there and at nice we will need to envisage ways of addressing the place that this charter is to have within the treaties .
these are issues that we do not have time to deal with thoroughly prior to nice , but they must be raised and would perhaps merit in-depth attention after nice .
madam president , i will quickly mention some other issues , if i may , to confirm or expand upon what the presidency has said .
this is what has caused the european union to radically alter its policy in respect of serbia .
in more practical terms , we announced that emergency aid totalling eur 200 million had been allocated to serbia , and the commission is soon to present a package of emergency measures that will cater for the country ' s priority needs as winter approaches .
the key thing , here as elsewhere , i feel , is to consolidate democracy .
the president-in-office of the council mentioned about the middle east .
the heads of state and government welcomed the proposal from the commission , presented by loyola de palacio , for a global strategy on oil reserves and oil prices .
the president of the commission , romano prodi , took the opportunity to emphasise , above and beyond the content of this communication , the vital importance of russia to this debate , and suggested that we discuss this issue thoroughly at the forthcoming summit meeting between the european union and russia in paris on 30 october .
i welcome the invitation extended to the freely elected president of serbia , mr kostunica , and i would expressly like to thank the french president , jacques chirac , for this invitation , because it signalled that we europeans are on the side of a democratic serbia which is developing in the right direction , and that the newly elected president has the support of the european union .
the group of the european people ' s party and european democrats is all for the enlargement of the european union , but it must also be capable of enlargement , which is why majority decision-making in the council of ministers must become the fundamental decision-making system .
mr moscovici , you said - or this is what it says in the german translation at any rate - that in matters of external trade policy - and this is a good example - there is a need for specially tailored measures .
it would be quite depressing enough if this were to be any prime minister , but it is unacceptable for it to be the prime minister of the very country that is holding the council presidency .
we have to make decisions in nice to avoid endangering enlargement , which is our main priority .
the president-in-office of the council has spoken of the spirit of nice .
we must not kill the spirit of nice with boredom , and we therefore have an essential priority in the remaining 50 days : to bring negotiations to a political level .
the commissioner has talked about qualified majorities and codecision .
our understanding is that the relationship is automatic : anything voted upon by qualified majority in the council must immediately also be subject to codecision with parliament .
i would ask the commission and the council to make a statement on this matter .
in conclusion , madam president , two final comments regarding fundamental matters of external policy .
to this end , i believe that we should apply the same standards to all .
we must find money - and here the council has responsibilities - to assert our community of values and create a balanced , stabilising policy in the balkans .
i believe that we must honour our commitment in one of the most tragic situations we are experiencing today .
i would urge the french presidency quickly to reassess its position on that central point .
mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , the enlargement of the union is a means of increasing stability and safety in europe and of promoting tolerance and democracy .
this would require majority decisions in the council to become the rule , and likewise , codecision for parliament , in agricultural matters , for example .
i welcome the declaration of fundamental rights , but it has to be improved in order to better accommodate the citizens ' expectations , and it has to form part of a european constitutional process .
the development of a credible and democratic europe requires more involvement from the citizens , the regions , the small and large member states , more decisiveness on the part of the commission and a reinforcement of the role of parliament , but especially the will of the commission to play its role on behalf of the union , and this is what we failed to do in the middle east , for example .
israel is entitled to peace and safety but the palestinians , who had to give up a large part of their land for this , are entitled to their own state , as enshrined in un resolutions 242 and 338 .
madam president , president-in-office of the council , commissioner , while progress has been made on closer cooperation and the extension of qualified majority voting , deep-seated disagreement persists , as you yourself have underlined , concerning the composition of the commission and the weighting of votes in council .
there is a pressing need to work out a new design for an enlargement that unites rather than divides , that involves the candidate countries in the work of the intergovernmental conference and pays far greater attention to the social dimension of enlargement .
i would also express the wish of my group and of a good many ngos to see the charter evolve and continue to improve , in order to guarantee , amongst other things , more effective protection and rights for the citizens of the european union , for employees , for the citizens of third countries and for the socially marginalised .
finally , concerning international issues , i , like others here , am keen to hail the return of democracy to serbia .
it is very important , as part of the process that has started , for the union to contribute to the reconstruction , stability and promotion of human rights in all the countries of the former yugoslavia .
madam president , at the biarritz council we saw emerging , from behind the real or supposed quarrels between larger and smaller countries , a different but equally real type of rift between those who want to speed up european integration and those who want to preserve a design for a european union that respects member states and national democracies .
the first group would seem willing to engage in ultrafederalism within a hard core of states , and the referendum in denmark seems to have strengthened their convictions on this .
by persisting in this approach , they would probably cut europe in half , and even more surely would cut themselves off from their own nation .
for the referendum held on 28 september was not simply an expression of the danes ' refusal to be run by a european superstate and their desire to preserve their national democracy .
one might well doubt it , in view of the fact that the most clear-cut decision taken during the biarritz council was to proclaim the charter of fundamental rights at nice .
the commission subsequently informed us , in its communication of 11 october , that the charter could be rendered binding through the case law of the court of justice , still without any say from the national parliaments .
madam president , president-in-office of the council , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i do not share commissioner barnier ' s optimism about maintaining the community system at nice .
we had a second pillar , then we had a third pillar , and now we are in the process of constructing a fourth pillar on defence , while a de facto fifth pillar also exists on economic and monetary union .
while this parliament holds forth on constitutionalisation , the real issue is - and i would stress this - that of the balance of power within the commission .
i cannot agree with you , mr poettering .
this is the only way to restore a true balance between the various institutions of the european union .
we bring the question of the charter of fundamental rights into our nation-oriented arguments , but fail to consider the fact that the future of europe hinges on a commission that is able to represent all its citizens and not the member states as in the past , and one that has not been transformed - along the lines sketched out today - into a second council , where all sorts of haggling become possible and no authentic expression of common european is able to emerge .
the heart of the matter is that the elites who are keenest on integration want to be able to make decisions without broad democratic support .
elites in all the countries are also joining forces against their own voters .
i have very little to add to what commissioner barnier has said , except perhaps to mention a slight difference of opinion over meteorology .
mr baron crespo asked several questions which primarily concern the link between qualified majority voting and codecision .
i would also like to return to the issue of the number of members of the european parliament .
firstly , all the members of the european council are happy with the charter , both from the standpoint of the method used and from that of its content .
it is the first european union document that the citizens can consult without feeling completely alienated from its content .
there remains , of course , the question of its legal power .
i will make no secret of the fact that we are engaged in a process , one in which we are well versed , of having the charter proclaimed by each of the three institutions .
it seems to me that we must adopt a gradual approach to this matter : see to it that this charter is proclaimed at nice by the three institutions and then go into its legal future since i , like many people here , believe that it will indeed be the preamble to a future constitutional treaty , but let us then address this as a constituent issue .
now that we have this charter , let us accept it for what it is , as the stage we have reached today , a first step that is subsequently to be confirmed and developed by taking others , whether in respect of its content or its legal status .
this idea has appeared from somewhere but it is not the position of the european parliament .
in any event , madam president , i believe that biarritz has contributed something very positive , and that is the unanimous approval of the charter .
i believe that now , in this policy of forward movement , the inclusion in article 6 ( 2 ) of the treaty on european union is very important , as there is no sense - and i do not wish to be inconsistent - in the european union deciding not to provide a legal basis in the treaty for the union to be able to adhere to the european convention on human rights and , at the same time , talking in the same paragraph about the interpretation of fundamental rights based on this same european convention for the protection of human rights .
it therefore seems that mentioning the charter in the treaty of nice is something that makes perfect sense .
i therefore believe that with the resolution on which we are voting tomorrow , we are giving a very clear mandate to our two representatives , mr brok and mr tsatsos , to enable them to present a proposal to this end at the nice summit .
madam president , president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i have three comments to make .
the institutions on which the european union is currently based were set up for three large countries and three small countries .
indeed , the magic of the european union is precisely its ability to foster alliances between small and large countries in the common interest .
the second issue that i would like to address is that of decision-making .
i ask you in all sincerity , at a time when the union is providing itself with a charter of fundamental rights , would the heads of state and government reject the idea of decisions in this area being taken on a qualified majority ?
however , in parallel with the debate on qualified majority voting , there is the debate on closer cooperation .
on this count , i consider it insufficient to say that the community method must be safeguarded .
we need to have further debate and focus our thoughts in this respect .
mr mendez de vigo has already referred to the content of article 6 and to the inappropriateness of there simply being a reference to the european convention on human rights .
however , in its communication of 11 october , the commission has just spelt out , quite correctly , the extent to which a judge to whom this charter is submitted would be in a position to uphold its content , and would not be able to act as if this document did not exist .
there is a pressing need to equip the union with a point of reference based on the content of this charter .
even once the present candidate countries have joined , each member state must be able to retain one junior or senior commissioner .
it is highly suspicious that the large member states , which are behind intergovernmental cooperation , would argue in favour of a small commission in which they themselves would not always be represented .
it is difficult but certainly not impossible to reach agreement in nice .
but the french presidency should not act as strangely as it did in " bizarritz " .
concerning the charter , you have just replied in a very well reasoned manner , but my group is nonetheless anxious to say to you that the work must go on .
a second course of action would be to actually establish a timetable at nice and a clear method for rewriting the treaties and incorporating the charter into these treaties .
i have to say that article 93 , in the form in which it has been drawn up by the presidency , does not enable us to address even a straightforward debate .
the wording of article 93 becomes all the more critical considering that , once the first wave of new states has joined the union , it will be all the more difficult for us to progress towards qualified majority voting .
everyone knows that nothing will come out of the nice summit , because there is too much disagreement between the various governments of europe .
it was also a wasted opportunity for the europe of fundamental rights , which was supposed to be a beacon for the world .
indeed , the charter falls some way short of the texts already in force .
in reality , it once again proves that this europe is being constructed against the interests of its peoples , and this is what tens of thousands of protesters will be saying in nice on 6 and 7 december , and i hope that many of us will be there with them .
in the second that remains , and since we are talking about fundamental rights , i would like to express my indignation at the silence and complicity of most of the member states and institutions with regard to the ongoing massacre of the palestinian people , with whom we should be showing a little more solidarity .
we all know that enlargement of the union cannot take place until decision-making procedures within the key institutions are reformed ; however , such a reform process must be fair and balanced .
it must protect the position of smaller member states within the union .
it is clear from the debates that have been taking place across europe , including those in biarritz , that larger member states are seeking , in part , to bully smaller member states to reform the european union in line with the direction taken by larger member states and in accordance with their wishes .
let us reflect for a moment on the ratification procedure for any newly revised european union treaty .
if the european treaty accepted at nice completely dilutes the influence and representation of smaller member states , it is going to be very difficult to sell it and secure approval for it in referendums in these three countries .
decision-makers within the governments of the larger member states should remember that seeking the approval of the citizens in a referendum is not a mere technicality or a rubber-stamp operation .
one has to convince the citizens in these countries of the clear merits of any new european treaty .
it must strike the balance between ensuring that the enlargement process can proceed and ensuring that smaller member states retain a strong voice in the decision-making procedures of the european union .
mr president , president-in-office of the council , commissioner , the informal council meeting at biarritz raised hopes that in-depth consideration would be given to the preparation of the nice summit , which is to lead on to the reform of the european institutions .
we would like to see similar zeal for action in the field when there are disasters in europe , such as the storms of december 1999 or the sinking of the erika .
four revisions in fifteen years have not improved matters , and now we are expected to believe that a charter or a constitution might do something to change things .
in conclusion , let us begin to do together those things that we can do well or better in line with our peoples ' wishes .
mr president , president-in-office of the council , commissioner , on the subject of the situation in the middle east , two months ago this house was unanimous in praising the commitment to peace shown by avraham burg , the speaker of the knesset , and ahmad qurie , the president of the palestinian legislative council .
bringing all its weight to bear also implies not contenting ourselves with advocating a renewal or intensification of economic aid under the pretext that only by raising the standard of living in the region will we be able to help establish a lasting peace .
we still have no agreement on the modus operandi for the european commission , on how votes are to be weighted in the council , on what should be done about the principle of qualified majority voting or on proportional representation in the european parliament .
in other words , today - i repeat , today - there is a risk of the so-called amsterdam left-overs becoming nice left-overs unless we take some decisive action right away .
of course it is , on occasions , clear from the debate that this institution is viewed in some quarters not as the answer to the flexibility which europe needs but as a sort of future defence to safeguard their interests vis-a-vis future members of the european union .
but we still have time , miracles do happen in politics and i personally am keen to see a few happen in nice .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i am extremely concerned that this affair of the charter of fundamental rights will have a negative effect on public opinion .
the charter of fundamental rights has been accepted in its entirety by the informal biarritz council .
it is a sign which could contribute to turning the public increasingly against the european project , as , sadly , is already happening even in the candidate countries .
the committee on constitutional affairs has decided on a method and a timetable which mean that the inclusion of the charter in the treaties is a decisive step towards the constitutionalisation of the union .
re-weight the votes in the council , but not in accordance with the principle of double majorities .
if they were to be complied with , the large countries ' demands for increased power in the council and parliament would upset the whole balance within the eu and mean that the small countries would have to pay for the whole cost of enlargement .
mr president , in our plenary sitting in september we experienced and shared moments of optimism and hope with abraham burg , speaker of the knesset , and ahmed qurie , president of the palestinian legislative council .
the unity of action at a given moment has made it possible for the work and prestige of one of the member states in this area to be used to the benefit of all .
mr president , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , i would like to say a few words on the subject of the middle east and yugoslavia , also in connection with contributions from previous speakers .
following the summit meeting in sharm-el-sheikh where all parties involved were present in order to find a way to freeze the violence and to re-open the dialogue between barak and arafat , we established that it is very difficult - even if , for a fleeting moment , it seemed as if it were possible - to halt the violence .
nevertheless , we all know that there are huge numbers of citizens , both in israel and in palestine , who are simply finding out - in the hope of peace - how tough life is as long as peace has not really been established .
at the same time , we would ask the council to operate in the same spirit during the budget negotiations for 2001 .
i would advise mr baron crespo to ask his italian colleagues to explain to him why they are in government in italy with an openly communist party and why they are preparing to go to the political elections with another openly communist party , the communist refoundation party .
the package of measures proposed by the commission with a view to increasing energy efficiency and saving energy , is therefore constructive , and likewise the investigations into cartel problems with the oil companies .
we should also take a look at our own situation , however .
with that in mind , parliament is expecting the nice summit to take a step in the direction of qualified majority voting in those areas where taxation policy is disrupting the proper functioning of the internal market .
the council presidency wants to abolish the cooperation procedure and replace it with the consultation procedure .
at the very least , it must be possible to agree on the detail of a common position on these matters in nice .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , a little while ago , you made the point that parliament would not issue a statement on the number of seats in the european parliament .
i would urge you just to read through the leinen-dimitrakopoulos report , in which parliament has taken up clear positions , not only in respect of the distribution of the seats , but also on the weighting of votes in the council and the composition of the commission .
the increase in intergovernmental initiatives , the official demands raised , and the options discussed in connection with enhanced cooperation , are all initiatives that could ruin the truly successful nature of the european union .
mr president , in this debate on the informal summit in biarritz , i would like to focus on the igc and the charter .
like mr brok , i would like to stress here once again that one commissioner per member state is absolutely vital to give each country a place in the european executive .
the union cannot develop as a community of 27 members if we cling to the notion that it is mainly a system of intergovernmental cooperation in which the union ' s bodies are merely responsible for implementation or control matters in a very loose way .
already there are numerous examples of how just one country can obstruct matters which almost all countries consider to be important .
the charter of fundamental rights proudly conveys what european values are , but it is fruitless to create an artificial controversy with regard to its rapid and binding constitutionality .
under every option , each country will have at least one commissioner .
in the latter case , the question we must answer is when will this principle of a rotation which treats both larger and smaller states on a strictly equal basis come into effect .
whatever the scenario , there will therefore be a major reform of the way that the commission operates , and i feel that we must in the coming weeks make careful use of the time still available to us in order to assess the implications of each option before taking a decision at nice , the aim being , i would repeat , to preserve within an enlarged europe the effectiveness , credibility and if possible collegiate nature of the commission .
the national governments participated fully and have all approved this text .
it is one of the points that have been broached in the discussions and i honestly feel that , beyond what we are able to achieve in the negotiations themselves , anything that the european parliament itself can quite clearly say on the way it is to be structured after enlargement will be very useful to us because it will enlighten our work and the work of the member states .
finally , a word on the biarritz spirit or climate : mr dupuis has surely misunderstood what i said .
in any case , i spoke of purpose and determination .
i do not yet know whether we will achieve real reform at nice , and one sufficient for a union that has 27 member states and quite clearly may subsequently have many more , provided that the democratic process in the balkans is consolidated and strengthened .
in any event , the commission has its place and is striving to secure genuine reform .
i simply said , mr dupuis , that success or failure , genuine reform or inadequate reform , would be assessed on the basis of whether the community model - which does indeed , mr moscovici comprise the three institutions you mentioned , but others too - would emerge from nice weakened , intact or strengthened .
i have specifically mentioned some of the factors that will enable us to ascertain immediately whether the reform is sufficient or not .
the extension of qualified majority voting and codecision to real issues , the preservation of article 250 in its current form , the place and role of the commission in closer cooperation , in respect of more than just the first pillar : these are some of the factors that will allow us see straight away whether we are talking of success or failure .
the vote will be taken on wednesday .
let us not criticise commercial europe too much , i speak as a socialist : it provides greater wealth to all of us .
peace , prosperity , democracy and justice are values which , each in their own way , virtually all the members and the groups in parliament , and the majority of elected representatives and political groups wish to see achieved by europe and for europe .
today , we have just experienced one of the last democratic revolutions in europe , that of october 2000 in serbia .
democracy in europe is in good health , but european democracy is in a bad way .
one in two european citizens did not vote in the elections of june 1999 .
one in two of my students does not know who romano prodi is , although they are almost all quite clear on michael schumacher or monica lewinsky .
let us at least agree on this objective , and if we do agree , then let us state how to achieve it .
if we want to achieve it , then we can , all together , citizens , members of parliament , and governments of the european union .
mr president , the issue i wish to discuss is far more specific , even though it must be said that some of us consider reinforced cooperation to be the panacea to combat the hypothetical freezing of the european integration process , supposedly inevitable due to the increase in the number of member states following the next round of enlargement .
there are also , mr president , those who see reinforced cooperation as the ideal instrument with which to create an " a la carte europe " or a " variable geometry europe " , in which community solidarity and cohesion would be diluted in a range of various intergovernmental cooperation schemes .
europe cannot be brought closer to the citizens by making its structure more and more complicated .
second , we must maintain the unity of parliament and the commission and increase their participation in both establishing and developing reinforced cooperation .
the experience of the maastricht social protocol and of economic and monetary union show that the participation of all the members of these institutions is technically feasible and politically advisable , and preserves the coherence of the system and the participation of all european citizens in decisions that affect them all the time .
dividing up legislative and executive powers or replacing them with a greater number of bodies , secretariats , parallel chambers and the like does not lead to democracy but to inefficiency .
third , we must increase the scope of reinforced cooperation to include the common foreign and security policy and the common defence policy , which in the last few years have been crying out for a community channel to avoid the dispersion , slowness and inefficiency that end up transferring decisions and the task of solving specifically european problems to the united states of america .
fourth , we must eliminate the veto and reduce the minimum number of member states required to set in motion community reinforced cooperation .
mr president , i have had the satisfaction of noting that the proposals presented recently at the intergovernmental conference coincide in the main with all or some of the criteria i have set out .
finally , i must thank the committee on constitutional affairs and its chairman for the kindness with which they received my report , the contributions which enabled me to improve it and the tremendous support that was given in the final vote .
with this support , mr president , and in the hope that our resolution will be useful in this final , decisive stage of the intergovernmental conference , i ask the house to vote for this report .
this resolution draws the attention of the community organs and the forthcoming nice intergovernmental conference to the issue of the islands , of island status , or rather the principle that island status as such should be recognised as one of the criteria for community intervention because of the actual conditions which any form of island status involves for the regions concerned .
in effect , the text which was officially issued by the intergovernmental conference - which i will pass on to commissioner barnier and to the minister , should your legal offices not have already done so - clearly shows that this was the opinion actually issued by the intergovernmental conference but that it was mistranslated into other languages .
there are sections of the treaties which establish the principle of cohesion and there is declaration 30 which , in affirming and applying the principle of cohesion in this context , reads , and i quote the exact wording : " the conference recognises that island regions suffer from structural handicaps linked to their island status , the permanence of which impairs their social and economic development " .
it is not , therefore , on the basis of a number of languages or a number of translations , but on the basis of a fundamental principle of the charters , of the treaties , that is , the principle of cohesion , that we call for the islands to be recognised as such , as the possible beneficiaries of specific interventions and specific attention .
initially , you planned three reports : constitutionalisation of the treaties , reinforced cooperation , and the ceiling on the number of members of the european parliament .
i note , at any rate , that for today , the last matter has not been referred to us , and i am in complete agreement with commissioner barnier .
i shall now return to each of these points , but only briefly in order to leave time for the debate .
this is a point i already made in presenting the results of the informal council meeting in biarritz .
i think it is safe to say that the conclusions of your rapporteur - as indeed he noted - for the most part echo the concerns expressed by the member states in biarritz .
we are , once again , all agreed that the institutional framework of the european union should be respected .
qualified majority voting is indeed the prime objective at the intergovernmental conference .
i do realise the value that parliament places on its own indivisibility , and indeed i understand it perfectly , but then , for that very reason , how is it possible to justify parliament ' s issuing a legitimate opinion as if it were a conventional codecision or consultation situation when in fact probably half , or perhaps two thirds of all the member states might not be involved in this reinforced cooperation ?
objectively speaking , this is a real matter of principle which makes it impossible , in my view , to adopt exactly the same rules within each area of reinforced cooperation as within the european union , and this is all the more true in the very specific and delicate area of foreign security and defence policy .
i now come to the constitutionalisation of the treaties .
i could confine myself to thanking mr duhamel , and to simply pointing out that his text contains a quite unwarranted attack on president prodi - his were , of course , humorous comments - or even observing that he has not said exactly how he wants this constitution to be arrived at .
firstly , simplification and clarification of the treaties .
next , the creation of a proper reference text clearly establishing the principles and objectives of the european union and , finally , the distribution of competences between the various decision-making levels within the european union .
this is a question which parliament , to give credit where it is due , asked very early in the day , as soon as it took office , in fact , in july 1999 .
while a constitution can provide a response , at least in part , to the questions i listed , it is a project which in real terms goes a lot farther than that .
firstly , simplification of the treaties .
in particular the european institute in florence , at the commission ' s request - and i expect michel barnier will mention this - did so with a result which i would describe as extremely honourable , despite the particularly arid aspect of the exercise , but i do not have the impression that the authors of the report , to which mr duhamel refers , indeed - managed to avoid a certain contradiction between the objective of clarity and the objective of legal certainty .
an exercise of this type must not upset the balance or cause us to regress , in the name of the principle of subsidiarity , as some parties seem to wish .
theses issues , or at least some of them , will no doubt come up for discussion very shortly .
this will not necessarily be in the form desired by your rapporteur because , as i said earlier , not all member states will necessarily be ready , but an extremely useful contribution will have been made .
i think we will see matters more clearly in nice , and i think it is the results of the igc - for we must not underestimate the impact that the outcome of the igc will have on our ability to go further - which will determine whether we shall be able to look into the opportuneness of opening up new working areas and , if appropriate , of defining working methods and a work schedule .
one last brief word on the way in which a text of this type would be drawn up , when the time comes .
and now , one very quick word about the island regions .
this question was raised as early as 1997 , i believe , after the new treaty was adopted but before it was signed .
as i said , given the lack of information available to us , i am not in a position to deliver a definitive opinion on this matter today , but the presidency is , of course , willing to help clarify the matter by , for instance , referring the matter to the council ' s legal department within the council and even within the intergovernmental conference .
i would therefore like to assure mr segni that , like him , the commission itself has noted certain discrepancies between the various language versions of article 158 of the treaty .
and that , i understand , is what you are lamenting .
this is the case of many islands that i visit within the scope of objective 1 or the cohesion appropriations , due to the very fact of their socio-economic situation and in accordance with the criteria laid down by the structural fund general regulation .
mr segni , i have decided to instigate a study on the socio-economic situation of the islands , in order to assess the situation and get as precise a diagnosis as possible of these island regions and i myself will present the results of this study , which i hope will be available during the second half of 2001 .
i will say in passing that these results will complement the debate that i also intend to instigate in 2001 on the cohesion report , an important public debate in which the european parliament will take part and which will enable me to prepare the guidelines for the future regional policy for the period 2006-2013 .
as for the idea you suggested of introducing this debate into the igc , frankly , mr segni , it seems to me that , taking account of the scope and difficulty of the other subjects on the agenda of this intergovernmental conference , it would be more appropriate to rectify the text according to the procedures laid down by the vienna convention on the law of treaties , as in previous cases of clerical errors in the articles of treaties , in order to standardise the different language versions of this article quite precisely .
i would now like to discuss , in turn , the two reports presented by jose maria gil-robles and olivier duhamel .
after this igc , mr gil-robles , i think the instrument of reinforced cooperation will be more clearly defined and , if i may use this expression , more ' workable ' in relation to the current content of the treaty of amsterdam .
for the commission , there are five essential components of reinforced cooperation .
it must take place , as you said yourself , within the institutional framework , with a suitable role for each institution : that is the first point .
it is important to ensure that this reinforced cooperation remains within the framework of the european union and respects the roles of the institutions , in particular the commission and the european parliament .
furthermore , mr gil-robles , most of the delegations to the negotiations in which i am participating agree that the future treaty should recognise an enhanced role for the commission and the parliament in implementing reinforced cooperation .
i am therefore prepared to support the request in jose maria gil robles ' report aiming to enhance parliament ' s role and i support the idea , at least , of replacing the consultation of the european parliament in the first pillar with its assent .
that is why , yesterday , when we were discussing various points , i put forward a number of amendments which will usefully serve to specify or enhance the role of our institutions and the place allotted to them according to the pillars , in the context of implementation of reinforced cooperation .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , reinforced cooperation cannot , and must never allow the acquis communautaire to be unravelled in any way .
i would remind you that the procedure can be simple , with a qualified majority and the withdrawal of the veto , because we want to maintain strict conditions .
i completely share parliament ' s wish for the fundamental principles to remain unchanged , but i have noticed , mr gil-robles , a willingness on your part to make some of these conditions more flexible , as in point 11 of your resolution , and i would like to exercise a certain amount of caution in this respect .
finally , we all agree that reinforced cooperation should not - i have said this before and i will say it again - become a characteristic feature of the european union .
it must remain a mechanism that the member states may use only when all the other possibilities for progress on the road to integration involving all members have been ruled out or are not feasible .
reinforced cooperation must not , therefore , become the universal cure-all in order to conceal our weaknesses .
to be more specific , i think that reinforced cooperation cannot be designed as an alternative to qualified majority voting , which remains and will always remain , in the view of the commission , the main subject under negotiation .
we think your report provides an excellent starting point for the discussion of the constitutional work that we are to begin immediately after nice .
mr duhamel , you will undoubtedly agree with me that if nice is not successful , there will be no room , or at least no credibility , for consideration of the future of european integration , at least within the current framework .
i think that nice could be the beginning of the next stages of discussions on several related topics .
i thank you for the positive reference you made to the study by the european institute in florence that we commissioned , and i also noted mr moscovici ' s constructive approach in this respect .
this is a good piece of work that constitutes a basis available for the future exercise of reorganising the treaties .
the second point is the legal nature of the charter of fundamental rights , a matter which , as the presidency said , may well not be answered in nice .
i know that olivier duhamel ' s report essentially slots into a wider perspective : that of a constitutionalisation that would go way beyond the current institutional framework and which would only be completed in the long term .
it seems to me , however , that we need to clarify the current legal and institutional situation first of all , which is what your report also proposes as a first stage : " a reorganised treaty " , as you say in point 9 of your resolution .
like you , mr duhamel , i think the european union should be equipped with a clear , simpler fundamental text .
it is essential for european democracy , our primary reason for uniting , as you reminded us , that the citizens have access to a constitutional treaty , a text which , according to the wish of vaclav havel , all the children of europe can learn at school without difficulty .
the important work carried out at our request by the european institute in florence , to which i have referred , shows that it is legally possible to assemble all these essential elements in a single text comprising a small number of articles .
the word " constitution " does not scare me , i even think i have used it in your presence , ladies and gentlemen , at the very beginning , when i was not yet an official member of the european commission .
i raised the issue of the constitutionalisation of the treaties during my hearing before the european parliament , prior to the investiture of the commission .
i would like to assure you of my personal availability and even my passion , mr duhamel , which will be at least equal to yours , in order to participate in this work .
i also agree that we should move as far away as possible from the references that you yourself rejected , in the context of our work on this subject : on the left , those of karl marx and , on the right , as you said , those of joseph de maistre , even if the latter , i would like to say , while stating my disagreement with a number of his writings , at least had the merit of being from savoy .
in any case , ladies and gentlemen , one thing is clear and must remain so : none of the questions we are discussing can constitute a condition to be achieved prior to the enlargement of the european union towards the mediterranean , baltic , eastern and central european countries that are currently candidates .
the commission is not in favour of calling another intergovernmental conference before the first round of enlargement .
the reform of the institutions needed to enable this enlargement to take place must be carried out now and there must be no nice leftovers , in any case definitely not the amsterdam leftovers .
the conclusions of the european council in nice could announce , in the way you recommend , a mandate and timetable for the work on matters of a constitutional nature .
again , i think that any discussions after nice should be open to all , to the member states and the candidate states , in a suitable form that we shall have to define .
finally , i think that the commission , which has participated actively in the work of the charter and which is participating actively , as is proper , in the work of institutional negotiation , will , after nice , also have to play its part in the collective brainstorming that is related , quite clearly , moreover , to another exercise which we have undertaken on governance .
it is ready to do so by means of a report to be drawn up following nice on these matters of clarifying competences and simplifying the treaties , which could be available before the end of the treaty of nice ratification period .
as for the continuation of the work , i will also say that the report you presented , mr duhamel , contains many very interesting ideas .
you mentioned the idea of a referendum to be held simultaneously in all the member states .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the duhamel report has provided us , the european parliament , with the opportunity , barely two months before the european council in nice , to reiterate our position on the further development of the european union , and in so doing to take account of the need for the eu to become primed for action on the enlargement front over the next few years , as well as to demonstrate to our citizens the medium-term prospects of the european union .
what this european constitution will also need to do is clearly establish the distribution of tasks between the member states and the european union , inject the dynamism of european integration into those areas where it is badly needed , and provide for joint action to be taken , for example in the sphere of foreign and security policy .
reinforced cooperation must therefore respect the principles set out in the treaties and be conducted within the single institutional framework of the union .
on the other hand , it must not constitute a barrier to trade or precipitate splits in the common market , breaks in the links of solidarity and cohesion between the member states or , as commissioner barnier has said , an unravelling of the community acquis .
the implementation of reinforced cooperation must not result in new bodies being set up to swell the ranks of the european institutions .
the rapporteur is quite correct in firmly stressing the need for the commission ' s powers of initiative and the participation of parliament , at least on a consultation procedure basis , to be the norm whenever there is reinforced cooperation .
following the nice summit , which we all hope will be successful , it is important to take this next step in order to create a more democratic union .
naturally , people must be enabled to participate in this work , especially citizens of the candidate countries which will hopefully be members in a few years ' time .
a constitution is a matter for the whole of europe .
the european council is violating this fundamental consensus within europe , by refusing to incorporate the charter of fundamental rights into the treaties , make it legally binding and denying the citizens , whose rights are being infringed , access to the european court of justice .
the question we must ask ourselves today is whether we want a europe ruled by princes or a european democracy .
our parliament , as the only institution of the union to have democratic legitimacy , has a big responsibility to lead the way in this respect .
the nice summit must pave the way for this by granting the necessary mandate , initiating a procedure and setting a timetable .
mr president , the duhamel report , which i shall be discussing , once again raises the european parliament ' s old idea of giving europe a constitution .
the main aim behind this , which is not clearly stated in the resolution , would be to lay down for europe , even for the fundamental texts , majority-style collective decision-making procedures , completely different , therefore , to the unanimous council votes or the votes on ratification by member states used today to amend the treaties .
these collective procedures would for once and all establish a supranational power in europe .
but a backward step is always backwards !
according to paragraph 4 , we need a constitution because the treaties are " unreadable and invisible " .
paragraph 8 of the constitutional resolution states that europe ' s constitution must be adopted , and i quote , " with no risk of the process being blocked " and , as paragraph 7 of the duhamel report says , " without a referendum " there can be no democracy .
the report by the committee on constitutional affairs argues that differentiation can only be deemed to serve any purpose if it is conceived as a process which allows for exceptions to the rule .
however , it seems to me that the report inclines in the opposite direction .
i have always rejected any form of differentiated integration for reasons pertaining to legal theory , but also for pragmatic reasons , believing that it would allow a majority of member states to determine the direction of policy , and deny countries joining at a later stage any codecision rights in these matters .
when the intergovernmental conference in amsterdam inserted a special reference to islands into article 158 on economic and social cohesion , adding the word " islands " as a special category under the regions which deserve particular attention within the context of cohesion policies , we here in the european parliament who had first fought for this development thought that it marked the start of a new era for island regions .
unfortunately , our hopes were dashed because , in addition to all their other problems , islands are paying the price for the different translations of the point in question .
firstly , with regard to the method , which is a tired , lifeless procedure according to public opinion , which in fact marginalises the other institutions of the european union and in which governments are victims of their own labyrinth .
in spite of everything , however , at least the agenda has included one very important point , reinforced cooperation , which must be seen as an incentive for progress and not for dispersal or creating cabinets .
this will help to stimulate european construction beyond this igc and possibly in spite of this igc .
we need a constitution for the european union , and this constitution must start right now by including the charter of fundamental rights in the new treaty in nice .
mr president , i shall focus my scant sixty seconds on the report by mr duhamel , which is a good report , because it has the courage to state things clearly and the eloquence of our rapporteur just now has finally convinced us .
yes , it is in the greater interest of the democracy of our continent to have a new founding text and a clear and effective constitution .
i represent the constituency which contains the two largest islands in the mediterranean - sicily and sardinia - and i can say in all honesty that both islands are severely disadvantaged in structural terms precisely because they are islands .
i hope the treaty of nice is achieved and seen to be a success and that closer cooperation is included as a welcome move in the direction of flexibility .
mr moscovici , will the nice treaty really be welcomed and acclaimed in warsaw , prague , budapest , tallinn and ljubljana ?
i hope that the french presidency will find a more efficient and imaginative way of assuring the candidate countries and the public throughout europe that we are not only addressing important technical issues but above all the political necessity to provide our continent with stability through the certain and guaranteed enlargement of our european union .
even if all the demands of the french presidency for qualified majority voting are accepted , large areas of political cooperation will remain uncovered .
reinforced cooperation is therefore a de facto requirement , not as an ideal solution , it is certainly not that , but as a practical solution in a time of need , of vital need .
mr president , two brief observations regarding the reports on our agenda today .
two years of work should be more than sufficient and we hope that the majority of parliament will support amendment no 37 .
the second point concerns the difference between the first and second stages .
nevertheless , i would like to concentrate on the duhamel report , to emphasise how much progress the idea of a constitution has made , including in this house .
everyone , or almost everyone , who has spoken has done so in support of this idea and we feel that this is already a huge victory .
we , of course , take the view that this is the purpose of the constitution , over and above the already positive purpose of clarifying the treaties .
my last point is that , when it comes to drafting the constitution for real , the key point will be to determine wherein the legitimacy of the european authority lies , and , in our opinion , it must come from the peoples , from our citizens and their representatives , the european parliament and perhaps the national parliaments .
mr president , i should like to say a few words to the effect that , in my opinion , the duhamel report is a truly excellent document , which makes quite substantial progress .
in portugal , for example , we did not hold a referendum to approve our membership of the european community or to approve the maastricht treaty .
the excellent reports by mr duhamel and mr gil-robles gil-delgado expertly point the way on both issues : improved intelligibility of the treaties , a constitutional framework , fundamental rights , delimitation of competences , constitutional state , democracy and separation of powers ; no superstate in europe , a new method of developing the treaties .
the same goes for the report by mr gil-robles gil-delgado .
mr president , the european union ' s achievement has been to interpose a european-wide transnational legal order between national and international law based on the treaties which , as the european court of justice has pointed out , have some of the characteristics of a constitution .
the proposals in the duhamel report which do that must be welcomed .
the second part of his report is more ambitious and hence contentious , questioning the mechanics of the way in which the treaties - and hence the quasi-constitution - is changed .
mr gil-robles ' proposals on reinforced cooperation are , on balance , positive .
the european parliament has tabled important proposals .
the debate is closed .
the vote on the resolution on the oral questions with regard to the status of the islands will take place on wednesday .
if so , it seems to me that is a matter that may require of an amendment in the rules of this house .
that is making matters too complicated , mr howitt .
i will not take this into consideration . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) mr president , i am sorry to rise again on a point of order but i do so to challenge the ruling you made earlier , not in the context of the debate but in the context of the rules of this house .
if there is an equality of votes and if the honourable member did vote , even though her machine did not work , then the procedure in any parliamentary assembly is that amendment falls .
therefore , in those circumstances i want you to tell me which part of our rules suggests that your ruling is right , when clearly it is not .
there was therefore more than one surplus vote .
otherwise it would make things quite impossible : when we have a very tight vote with only a difference of one or two votes , there would be people jumping up all over the place saying their machine did not work , they did not vote , or whatever .
the vote was clear .
the result was established by the president .
with regard to the passage on work experience in companies , apprenticeships , joint work / training contracts , it aims to make more widespread a practice already adopted by many states which consists , on the pretext on helping workers or unemployed young people , of making a partially or completely subsidised workforce available to employers .
recommendation for second reading - trakatellis ( a5-0268 / 2000 ) i welcome the ep ' s adoption of the trakatellis report as it provides for the setting of high standards of quality and safety of blood and blood derivatives .
eu citizens are entitled to expect the highest level of safety with blood products .
before passing judgement , the french court of appeal and the council of state ought to have notified the court of justice in luxembourg that the question had been referred for a preliminary ruling .
this is the legal course that our parliament should follow in order to be consistent with its principles and its legal code , as well as with the letter and the spirit of the treaties .
kla report ( a5-0195 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted against the kla report .
we all know that the directive on material for the vegetative propagation of the vine needed amending , because huge changes have taken place in the 32 years since it was drawn up , both on the market and in the technical and scientific area .
it is proposed to allow material for the vegetative propagation of the vine which meets reduced specifications to be marketed when temporary difficulties arise without , however , specifying what these difficulties might be .
yesterday , the proposal of the greens and social democrats to postpone the decision on the kla report until a broader decision-making process on the genetic manipulation of plants is in place , was turned down by a narrow majority of this parliament .
riis-jrgensen report ( a5-0290 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the riis-jrgensen report , although it does have some shortcomings .
in april 1999 , the commission proposed a wide-ranging reform of the community system of competition with regard to the application of article 81 ( prohibiting agreements between undertakings ) and article 82 ( prohibiting the abuse of dominant position ) .
the rapporteur generally welcomes the proposals in the commission white paper on this subject but is apprehensive of the possible implications of the reform , which aims principally to decentralise the implementation of competition rules .
while we would not all agree with every aspect of eu competition policy , it has certainly been a successful policy over a period of 43 years and it has helped to prohibit the abuse of dominant positions by companies within the european union .
the uniform application of eu competition laws throughout the eu must be paramount .
therefore , i welcome the call by the rapporteur to the european commission to provide additional guarantees concerning the application of competition law within the member states .
this will include , in particular , involving the european parliament more closely in drawing up and implementing competition policy and monitoring the quality of legislation on competition within the various member states of the eu and the applicant countries to the eu .
whilst i could agree with the requests for increased transparency regarding state aid , and for the european parliament to be informed about the follow-up to aid approved by the commission , i called for state aid to be maintained in order to develop social cohesion , research and innovation or environmental protection , to offset gaps in the market , to promote european competitiveness in relation to other countries and to confront the fraudulent machinations of competitor countries , such as korea in the field of shipbuilding .
state aids have been traditionally used by member states as instruments of industrial and social policy .
notwithstanding the move towards greater deregulation within the european union , state aids can still play a constructive role in achieving social and economic progress .
i am a member of the european parliament for the constituency of connaught / ulster .
this whole region has been classified as an objective 1 area for the seven-year period 2000-2006 .
for the purposes of this grant aid , a small and medium-sized enterprise is a company that employs less then 250 people .
permission to grant such grant aid to companies setting up in the objective 1 region serves a very positive economic and social purpose .
i welcome the recent statement that radical changes are now being implemented by ida ireland in terms of attracting more jobs to the objective 1 region in ireland .
ida ireland has been reorganising that focus so as to win half of all new jobs from greenfield projects in the objective 1 region over the coming three years .
this re-focus is beginning to take effect and given time and the implementation of the government ' s programmes on infrastructure , as outlined in the national development plan for the period 2000-2006 , the ida is certainly confident that it can reach this target for new projects in the objective 1 region .
i believe the regional state aid guidelines which have been put in place to help job creation in the objective 1 region can be implemented in their entirety and will redress regional imbalances which exist in ireland and elsewhere .
i drew the attention of the european commission to this issue in july 1999 , and received a positive response .
i therefore agree with the thrust of paragraph 4 which supports this viewpoint .
i am less pleased with the idea expressed in paragraph 2 that state aid should not go up .
my final verdict is therefore positive .
the principle of market rules as the sole form of social regulation tends to do away with man and his creativity as individuals in the economy and the productive process and , more importantly , is indifferent to man ' s prosperity and only interested in the welfare of enterprise .
they also know that the economy is being restructured and the public sector sold off not for their benefit but in order to support big business and increase its profitability .
the intolerable situation being forced on workers by the choices made by large companies and the eu is already causing widespread reaction .
so here we are in october 2000 , with only a short while to go before the financial framework for budget 2001 is agreed .
the figures that we , as parliament ' s committee on budgets , are to put before the house , will not meet - and of course we are a little disappointed about this - with the unanimous support of all our fellow delegates in the specialist committees .
parliament , at any rate , understands that the payments to be included in budget 2001 are a function of the commitments entered into in previous years and those we hope to enter into in 2001 , and we must determine them accordingly .
if you look at the budgetary implementation schedules for headings 2 , 3 , 4 and 7 , then you will note that only an average 8 % of all commitments are covered by payments .
therefore , in principle , we have raised the payments in headings 3 , 4 and 7 to a level that will ensure 25 % coverage of the commitments to be entered into in 2001 as regards individual budgetary lines .
above all , we want there to be sufficient money available under heading 1b , for the development of rural areas .
there must also be adequate funding available for those areas whose aim it is to achieve a knowledge-based society and to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the european union .
the level of unemployment in europe is still intolerably high .
three years ago , we launched our employment initiative , which involved helping small and medium-sized enterprises to acquire risk-bearing capital .
we want to carry on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises , so that they are able to benefit from our common market in exactly the same way that larger companies do .
we should therefore continue to deploy this instrument , albeit using simplified procedures , as proposed by the commission .
we have therefore earmarked almost eur 120 million for two budgetary lines combined .
we accept that 400 new posts need to be created , but would attach certain conditions to this .
in addition , naturally we take the view that it would not be acceptable simply to create 400 additional jobs , i.e .
for more than a year now , parliament has been urging the council to work with it on negotiating stable and secure reconstruction aid for the balkans .
in drawing up its preliminary draft budget in june , not only did the commission endeavour to secure the financing for the balkans aid , it also tried not to cut back on the other areas of external policy too heavily .
we will make appropriate sums available for those of our budgetary lines concerned with democracy and human rights , cooperation with non-governmental organisations working in the interests of the poorest countries , our cooperation with latin america , south africa and asia .
we will adopt the council ' s proposed level of funding for meda , and would urge the council to join us in using the flexibility instrument , should it become apparent in the course of next year that meda requires more money .
but let us return to the balkans .
on thursday we will adopt a trim , but sensible budget .
secondly , we must be prepared for the major challenge of enlargement in terms of staffing ; in other words , we must now create the financial leeway we need to be able to rise to this challenge when the time comes .
following in-depth discussions with the relevant institutions and the honourable members , whom i would like to thank most sincerely for their excellent and friendly cooperation , i am able to put before you today a draft budget that fully accords with these three guidelines .
the committee on budgets supported the necessary increases in funding in the sphere of information technology , especially with regard to data security - where there is a great deal of room for improvement in this house - as well as the increases needed for enhancing the security of our buildings and of all those who work there , and for the legal service .
in fact we are directly linked to the interest rate set by the european central bank , which is why we have proposed that we should pursue the buildings policy already adopted , because this will help to release us from this burden of interest as soon as possible .
i would like to take this opportunity to expressly thank the vice-president , mr gerhard schmid , who is responsible for budgetary issues , for his constructive cooperation .
i believe that we succeeded , in the course of the conciliation negotiations between the bureau of the european parliament and the committee on budgets , in submitting a well-balanced draft .
however , i would also like to take this opportunity to make the council aware that the council budget is a purely administrative budget too .
the council would do well to ensure that that is how things remain in future , particularly in the sphere of foreign and security policy .
the economic and social committee must get its own house in order if it wants to avoid jeopardising its continued existence for good .
we believe this to be an important proposal , in terms of achieving environmentally sustainable , modernised steel and coal production in europe , and also with respect to the financing of these areas and the conversion measures .
the social measures were cut from eur 31 million to eur 29 million in the council ' s proposal .
in 1999 , for example , only half of the allocation was actually used .
this seems odd to us because there will still be an operational budget in the second part of 2002 , and so we are calling for a review of the relationship between redeployment aid and social aid .
another important point i would like to make is that once the treaties have expired , we no longer want a separate regime for the ecsc , but feel that it should be integrated into the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions .
i hope , therefore , that you will forgive me if i avoid the latter and describe my short report as extremely important , and express my pleasure at its almost unexpected success with the commission and the council .
the report was unanimously approved by the committee on budgets a few weeks ago and , to date , no amendments have been tabled .
since 1985 - and i did say 1985 - the parliamentary committee on budgets has been trying to ensure that european parliament procedures take account of the financial impact of the resolutions voted upon in plenary .
and then , a long time ago , 15 years ago , a working party was set up for that purpose .
i think i can say that , essentially , the problem is the tremendous increase in legislative work in the european union as a whole , in particular the exponential growth of legislative codecision , the huge range of legislative decisions taken in parallel .
in accordance with current legislation , the commission currently sends us , together with its drafts , a balance sheet that includes what is basically a multiannual proposal for budgetary programming corresponding to the draft .
that is why , when the ministers for foreign affairs meet and take some commendable decision or other , such as helping kosovo or serbia , the least of their concerns is whether there is enough money to finance the decision and whether it has to be taken from elsewhere , such as aid to development in africa , the meda programme or the promotion of human rights in the former soviet union .
when a legislative conciliation takes place on social , cultural or environmental issues - and the commissioner will recognise that i am right - the commissioner for budgets , the ministers for finance and the members of the committee on budgets all pray that a financial blunder will not occur .
the agreement reached in july involves an increase in the information contained in the financial statement .
in future , all new proposals must be accompanied by an assessment of their compatibility with the financial perspective and its needs with regard to lists of budgetary posts .
the commission is implicitly required to consider at the beginning of the legislative procedure whether it has the necessary human resources and whether the proposal might require a revision of the financial perspective or a redeployment of previously approved programmes .
the poor implementation of some programmes can also be explained or justified by a lack of staff .
commissioner patten thus proposes reducing the cost of the meda programme and simultaneously increasing its staff by 25 posts .
we believe that this declaration should be included in the interinstitutional agreement , but in any case , i would like to say to you that it only makes sense within the context of an interinstitutional agreement with a financial perspective .
i shall end , mr president , by thanking the other institutions for their diligence in the handling of this joint declaration .
parliament reiterated its suggestion during a three-way dialogue that took place halfway through the portuguese presidency and concluded with an agreement at the first conciliation presided over by france in july .
this is a real record , which i hope will now lead to greater consideration of the financial constraints in our legislative activities .
thank you , mr colom i naval .
it is now my great pleasure to welcome to this chamber a brand new minister from my country , who will be speaking in his capacity as president-in-office of the council .
the examination of the budget is an important aspect of parliamentary life .
the budget is also of major importance to the governments and citizens of europe since it sets out europe ' s broad guidelines for action in 2001 .
this partnership between the council and parliament on budgetary matters should be developed further .
i hope that the budget discussions can continue in the same vein so that we can come up with a budget for the financial year 2001 that equips us with the resources to meet the priorities and challenges that await the european union .
you are called on today to decide on a budget that has already been amended at first reading by the council .
i would therefore like to quickly remind you the broad guidelines that the council wanted to give to the 2001 budget .
i would also like to emphasise the council and parliament ' s common objectives , which will in my opinion enable these two arms of the budgetary authority to arrive at an agreement .
on 20 july , the council adopted a draft budget that marked a 2.8 % increase in commitment appropriations and a 3.5 % increase in payment appropriations compared with the budget for 2000 .
this increase is also far above the inflation rate forecast by the commission for 2001 of plus 1.8 % , which shows how committed the council is to financing european union policies .
this draft budget constitutes a balanced and realistic compromise .
the council did not opt for a tactical first reading , which would have consisted of adopting a hard-line stance on stabilising community public expenditure and resulted in contentious budget negotiations with parliament .
the council voted through , at the first reading , the appropriations that it felt to be justified for 2001 , without taking into consideration any tactical concerns would only work against the objective of the sound allocation of appropriations , which is the objective that the community institutions must pursue .
the council ' s draft budget enables the financing of all the european union ' s policies and priorities to be reconciled without imposing an excessive burden on the member states , who i would remind you are currently in the process of bringing their own public expenditure under control .
in identifying margins for manoeuvre , notably as regards the ceiling set for heading 3 and heading 4 , it is also been the council ' s intention to let parliament , which has the final say on non-compulsory expenditure , set out its priorities without calling into question the council ' s priorities .
first of all , the draft budget provides for priority aid to the balkans , which will receive 30 % more funding than in 2000 .
the eur 614 million that the council have voted through will enable us to finance all the foreseeable requirements , and include an initial aid package to serbia totalling eur 40 million .
the council has shown that the granting of significantly higher amounts to the balkan region was in fact possible without a revision of the financial perspective .
furthermore , the council shares parliament ' s view that the revision proposed by the commission cannot be envisaged concerning another issue , namely that of expenditure on agricultural markets .
all the programmes that have been adopted jointly by the council and parliament conform to the programming that they decided upon together .
i am keen to point out that the ' employment ' initiative constitutes a priority not only for parliament but also for the council , following on from the conclusions of the feira european council .
we must , of course , first wait for the commission ' s assessment , but will do our utmost to reach an agreement with parliament at second reading within the context of a more general compromise on the budget as a whole .
concerning the cap , or heading 1 , the significant 6.3 % increase in appropriations is the result , as i have said , of the berlin agreements reforming the cap .
concerning the cutback of eur 225 million in the field of rural development , the council ' s position is a response to the cumulative lags in national rural development plans .
the commission acknowledges these lags and there can be no doubt that they will have major repercussions on the implementation of appropriations in 2001 .
expenditure under this heading has nevertheless been increased by 4.6 % , reflecting the fact that this second pillar of the cap constitutes a priority .
i would remind you that the 2000 budget provided for a very high level of structural funding .
the commission proposed a margin of eur 137 million below the ceiling , but the council has upped this to eur 208 million .
the council is not trying to vote through additional cutbacks , but rather to allow for a sufficient margin of appropriations with a view to the adoption , between now and the time the budget goes to second reading , of amounts that cover the council and parliament ' s shared priorities , such as the employment initiative , to which you are firmly committed .
the council has not deemed it desirable to take up the programming proposed by the commission , either in the proposal for a framework regulation or in its preliminary draft budget for 2001 .
the council considers that an allocation of eur 614 million , which translates as a very major increase of 30 % over 2000 should cover the needs of this priority , particularly since aid arrangements are set to change from emergency aid , which is by definition for rapid use , to more structural forms of aid , the commitment of which is generally more complex .
the meda programme and the euro-mediterranean partnership as a whole quite clearly also remain a priority for the union .
in fact , the level of commitment appropriations for the meda programme is not an issue , since the delay in payments under this programme now runs to over eight years , as commissioner patten has stated .
an increase in the actual payments made under the meda programme and the implementation of projects in the field will depend on just such an improvement .
however , i am anxious to stress that meda is only one facet of the euro-mediterranean partnership , which also comprises other measures and which calls for reciprocal efforts to be made by the partners .
regarding the commission ' s letter of amendment which proposes , as has just been mentioned , the creation of 500 new posts in 2001 , the council has voted through the creation of 400 new posts .
we must hold further discussions on this subject with parliament after the first reading is complete .
before you reach your decision on this draft budget , i would like to emphasise that the council and parliament share a number of objectives on which agreement could well be reached by our two arms of the budgetary authority .
i will give you two examples : amounts outstanding and financing of aid for the balkans .
these two issues often feature in discussions between parliament and the council and if we are not careful could well generate tensions between the two arms of the budgetary authority .
this means that there is quite a time-lag between the authorisation to commit the expenditure and actual payment , which is quite natural in the case of infrastructure financing and multiannual programmes in particular .
the solution would thus be to significantly increase the level of payment appropriations in order to pay all the commitments outstanding .
this solution is doubtless well-intentioned , but would be ineffectual .
the community budget does not need any more payment appropriations .
raising the level of payment appropriations by more than the 3.5 % decided by the council would in no way help to reduce the ral .
i would like this house to take these comments into consideration .
i now come to aid for the balkans .
it is also a priority of the council and parliament , which have just reached agreement on an emergency aid package worth eur 200 million .
i think i can safely say that the union was efficient in its financing of all the requirements connected with the balkans in the year 2000 , as the community budget enabled us to swiftly respond , among other things , to the acceleration in the timetable for reconstruction in kosovo .
concerning the forthcoming programming of heading 4 of the budget , the council wants to see a serious assessment of requirements being performed with a view to validating , or invalidating , the political valuation of the cards programme .
inasmuch as this is possible , the council is keen to base the level of multiannual global budgetary funding , including that granted under the 2001 budget for reconstruction in the balkans , on a technical needs analysis .
this question was also asked in the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 .
i sometimes hear it said that the council is so committed to the berlin financial perspective that it will not even hear talk of a possible revision .
others say that the commission and parliament see the revision as having a symbolic value in respect of the balkans and as proving , moreover , that the berlin financial perspective is inadequate .
the council is taking a calm approach to the revision of the financial perspective .
at this stage the council does not see the revision of the financial perspective as being a prerequisite for financing reconstruction in the balkans .
the budgetary resources that the european union allocate to the western balkans will have a symbolic value , but not as a result of the financial perspective having been revised or not .
the draft budget already incorporates the many results of the consultations between the council and parliament .
discussions will now continue between your institution and the council and the commission .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mr president-in-office of the council , budgetary policy always requires foresight , and today we are discussing budget 2001 , the budget for next year , and so together we must decide what demands there will be on european policy and the european budget next year , which we will need to fulfil , and what challenges we will face there .
the programmes for the new assistance period 2000-2006 have now been approved for practically all the member states , and so we can expect , and also hope , that the first projects of the operational programmes can be implemented next year , which will require an appropriate level of funding to be made available in the budget .
i would draw your attention to the challenge we face in the sphere of research policy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises , in light of the fact that when they met in lisbon , the heads of state and government set themselves the ambitious goal of making europe the most competitive , knowledge-based economic area in the world , which also places demands on the european budget .
but i might also emphasise that the proposals , or rather , decisions of all three institutions in respect of budget 2001 , fall below the threshold set during the financial planning in berlin .
i would like to thank the council for their positive vote on this issue .
if we want to improve - and that is our aim where the performance reserve is concerned - then of course we will need those posts .
the greatest challenge facing those responsible for budgetary policy , in the year to come , or rather , at the present moment , is that financing must be secured for new foreign policy tasks , and this mainly concerns the financing for the necessary stabilisation aid in the balkans .
i would remind you that the financial plan for the balkans agreed last year only made provision for eur 1.85 billion for the entire period up to 2006 .
i might also point out that last year , for instance , we had a long debate here with the council , in connection with the reconstruction measures for kosovo , on whether we stood any chance at all of putting in a good performance out there .
above all , by increasing aid for kosovo in this way , before the end of this year , it will be immediately apparent - and this is a very important political message to my mind - that the european union does not take the view that because there has now been a changeover of power in serbia , we should cut back on aid to kosovo .
the question of financial aid for serbia next year and for subsequent years , is now on the table of course .
eur 8.1 billion were earmarked for the meda programme in the berlin financial planning .
the commission does not believe that all the reconstruction aid required for the balkans should be carved out of the funds for the meda programme .
we have various instruments at our disposal for budgetary policy , in the event that unforeseen tasks should arise , or even additional requirements .
i am aware that parliament is of the opinion that the flexibility reserve should be employed forthwith , in order to offset the cuts in the meda programme .
of course revising the financial perspective is not an end in itself , rather , the commission proposed this method with a view to financing the necessary expenditure in foreign policy , so as to do justice to the challenges we face .
this aid package of eur 200 million will enable us to take the necessary measures on the energy front , before the end of this year , in order to supply the people with the heating energy they need this winter , relieve the emergency situation that prevails in many areas of health care , and also ensure , for example , that the children do not sit freezing in their classrooms through the winter , by financing any necessary repair work here .
we have already this year exceeded the foreign policy budget by 400 million .
circumstances have also revealed the need for the so-called ' rapid reaction facility ' , as proposed by the commission .
i should therefore ask both the council and the committee on budgets here in parliament to think in terms of foreign policy and not only in terms of budget strategy when they concern themselves with foreign policy .
whilst these are drawn up pursuant to article 248 ( 4 ) of the treaty for the purpose of discharge , we actually think there is some value in our committee and the committee on budgets looking into them and looking at how the money is being spent in the current year in areas where the court of auditors found problems in the past .
so the committee would like to recommend to all the specialised committees concerned to take into account the results of those evaluations .
finally , i am delighted to note that , in the field for which my own committee is responsible , no less than four new budget lines have been proposed for our approval .
the first of these is for the implementation of a pilot project intended to fund an information campaign within the fifteen member states against the criminal scourge of paedophilia .
the second is for aid to victims of human rights violations in need of treatment in specialised institutions .
the committee on budgets did not see fit to adopt my own committee ' s proposal to increase the resources to be made available to the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia based in vienna .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the vote in the committee on budgets was rather unsatisfactory from the point of view of the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
in many member states , where the commission operates information bureaux , it is not possible to reach a broad cross-section of the public through holding conferences for experts .
in view of the fact that euro banknotes and coins are to be introduced in 2002 , i cannot accept the decision to place the appropriations from prince in the reserve in financial year 2001 .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the european union is a community of law , because european law is observed and upheld .
the european court of justice takes care of that .
in particular , we will again recommend , at second reading , that 60 new posts be created at the european court of justice , and , in addition , that the necessary funding be made available in the budget .
mr president , this is my first year in the european parliament and i have been struck during the course of this budget debate by the contrast between rhetoric and delivery .
last year when we were discussing the budget , we had politicians in the member state governments who were posturing on the issue of renewable energy , whilst at the same time proposing major cuts to the save programme in this parliament .
but here we are yet again , twelve months later , in a situation in which ministers from member state governments have come out of summits , preening themselves over their ambitious targets for research , while the draft budget prepared by the council makes total cuts in payment appropriations in the research subsection of the fifth framework programme of no less than eur 100 million .
the proposals put forward by our committee and supported by the committee on budgets are much better .
we in the committee on employment and social affairs favour a thrifty budget too , but not in this way .
i am therefore pleased , and would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the committee on budgets , and above all , the general rapporteur , for the fact that we have at last worked out a joint plan on how to rectify the difficulties attending this draft budget , with a view to accommodating parliament ' s clear priorities , and boosting employment and social cohesion , although , naturally the situation still leaves something to be desired from the point of view of the committee on employment and social affairs .
the commission ' s attempt to abolish this initiative showed out-and-out disregard for the political will of lisbon and the priorities of this house .
naturally we would have liked to see the action programmes for combating social exclusion and discrimination better provided for , so as not to disappoint the expectations that article 13 has given rise to amongst the public , and also the ngos .
the first is the decision by the committee on budgets to place into reserve the monies agreed for the life programme .
this was an astonishing decision and left many of us feeling that this whole very important programme had simply become a football in a game between the budgets committee and the commission .
it demonstrated that those bodies did not recognise the importance of this programme to the environment .
it is the duty of the house to give those points their support in the vote this week , to demonstrate its continued commitment to protecting the environment and improving public health .
the budget per farm in the united states is currently three times higher than in europe .
the committee on fisheries , which shares with the commission the principle of budgetary stringency , has accepted the limits set by the latter in its preliminary draft and has indicated its concerns in certain budget headings .
the committee on fisheries has approved another amendment increasing the appropriations intended for controlling and observing fishing activities in community and third-country waters .
we have criticised the shortcomings and the marginal role of the commission in the policy of control and observation and we therefore believe that this policy must be supported with an increased budget .
whilst employment may be the european union ' s priority policy , fisheries , as another economic sector , cannot remain on the sidelines .
the cfp is tremendously important for maintaining employment in the peripheral regions , which are very dependent on fishing .
it is better to support activities that already generate jobs than to have to invest vast amounts later in creating new industries .
in conclusion , i would particularly like to mention a topic with regard to which parliament is to issue its assent .
i am referring to the fisheries agreement with morocco .
the committee on fisheries asks that line b7-8000 should include an entry of eur 125 million to cover the financing of this agreement for the year 2001 .
the commission in its executive capacity must negotiate with weighty arguments to achieve a reasonable agreement with morocco and the council and the governments concerned should provide a political impetus for this negotiation .
the community should also be investing in developing travel and tourism , particularly by supporting smes in this field .
the committee on budgets has also shown understanding with regard to financing the media plus programme , which is still open .
the success of audio-visual production is an important part of the european strategy .
hopefully this problem will be put right in plenary .
we in the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport tried to remain within the framework of the proposed appropriations , so that we ourselves might set out priorities as befits a special committee .
i wish , furthermore , to turn our attention to the financing of euronews .
it is by means of the budget that the european parliament can and must realise its ideals .
year after year , parliament has protected the interests of the poorest countries in the european budget , and with moderate success , even though this has not been enough .
there is no doubt that europe has to make a crucial contribution to the reconstruction of serbia , and hence to the stabilisation of the balkans .
europe , operating today as a global player , must also do its bit to reduce poverty .
even in 1999 , as much as eur 3.2 million was refunded to the member states because those resources were not spent .
this is where we hit a major problem .
the budget which we determine mutually , must reflect our priorities , must be understandable to the citizen and must also be goal-oriented .
these will indicate what sectors , in our eyes , must benefit directly from the aid which is budgeted for in certain regions .
mr president , on behalf of the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities , i would like to ask for parliament ' s support so that the amendments already approved by the committee on budgets may be definitively approved .
secondly , the incorporation of women into the information society , which is extremely important for the future ; financial assistance for women in central and eastern european countries , in the meda countries ; the fight against sex tourism in third countries , where there is a huge problem which affects women in particular ; and the promotion and defence of the fundamental rights and freedoms of women .
all in all , we would like to see these amendments approved .
a group of meps then presented an amendment to the committee on budgets - which was approved - with a view to extending this budget heading to other women ' s organisations in order to show our pluralist approach and respect for all options and all political affiliations in the european union .
for this budget heading we in the committee had asked for a larger amount than was allocated in the end , but all in all , as i said before , we are satisfied and we are hoping for final approval .
a prime responsibility of any elected parliament is to protect the interests of the individual citizens against the executive .
in our case we have to ensure not only that the commission respects european policy but that the member states do so as well and fulfil their treaty obligations .
they are not always ready to do so .
i should like to draw attention to the fact that the issue we are petitioned on is the question of fraud and mismanagement of money in the european union .
over the last few weeks in britain alone i have monitored what the press has been saying about cases of fraud , waste and mismanagement in britain : social security fraud - gbp 4.5 billion ; serious fraud offices investigating 81 cases covering gbp 1.4 billion ; housing benefit fraud - gbp 185 million ; giro cheque fraud - gbp 240 million .
so certainly we must make sure that we have our affairs in order in europe but anybody reporting these issues should never forget that it is not just the european union that needs to address those issues seriously .
the context of our debate today is that we must use whatever opportunity we have in our budget to make sure that our european institutions are ready for the next stage of enlargement , both in terms of the institutions ' structures as well as improved policy management .
secondly , i have a specific comment on category 4 and on our external policies .
we know that our debates on the budget will address this on many occasions .
but i would like to pick up on the comments of the commissioner , mrs schreyer , who said that there are a number of instruments , a number of means by which we can come to terms with what is requested for this year , whether it be the flexibility instrument or indeed the negative reserve , where we could perhaps find the credits available for this year despite the problem of how to manage that in practice .
the framework agreement between our two institutions is now in operation even if it is disputed by a few of our members .
no discharge is outstanding , the reform process started by the last commission under the strong urgings of our parliament has been taken up in earnest by this commission .
it is this background which is crucial to my group ' s approach to the 2001 budget .
having always been in the vanguard for change in the european institutions , for example with our support for never giving discharge for the 1996 budget , we are now absolutely determined that the reform process will not be lost as larger and more political issues begin to dominate our agenda in the run-up to the nice summit .
we focussed our efforts on three specific areas : better execution of the budget , more effective management of european policies and successful implementation of the reform package with particular reference to the new posts requested by the commission .
to the surprise of many in my delegation , we established a core strategy unanimously at the beginning of september and the 400 amendments introduced by some of my colleagues came as somewhat of a surprise to many of us in the budget committee .
mr president of the council , my group could put more payments on the line if we were certain that policies were being better managed .
we are looking to rebuild people ' s confidence in our institutions .
on the contrary , we must work for a parliament which campaigns for openness , efficiency and effective democratic control of the european institutions .
thank you very much , mr elles .
mr president , commissioner , mr president-in-office of the council , first of all i would like to extend warm thanks to the four rapporteurs who have done the groundwork for today .
and so we must think about how to solve this problem .
i believe it is very important for the council members to register the fact that payments are commitments entered into in the past that will actually have to be honoured .
we want to tackle unemployment for example .
we have other priorities on the foreign policy front .
we want to drive democratisation processes forward , and we want to strike a balance between the traditional political fields of foreign policy now before us .
when you , mr president-in-office , then say this must be financed from existing budgetary funds , i would ask you to consider just one thing : this year alone we have made 200 000 flexibility instruments available , and supplemented this with eur 180 million from the emergency reserve .
therefore , this year alone we will have included eur 380 million in fresh funds in the budgetary lines and made it available .
this problem will occupy us for the next six or seven years , and probably even longer .
this would go hand in hand with the reform of the commission , which , as it happens , has already set us thinking about how we can make our policies more effective overall .
the budget for 2001 is the second budget during this present programming period .
it continues the budget policy that was outlined in the interinstitutional agreement of over a year ago .
it is right that the committee should have made a special point of focus the reduction in expenditure commitments that are in arrears .
structural funds are one year in arrears and the media programme , for example , is actually eight years in arrears .
the most difficult problems in the new budget concern external action .
the basic reason is agenda 2000 , in which there are too few funds for the construction of the balkan region .
however , just eur 1 850 million were set aside for the development of this region at berlin , while eur 4 500 million were spent during the previous period .
the council reduced funds for the balkans by eur 200 million , although there is a massive amount of reconstruction work to be done in the wake of the nato bombing .
the committee on budgets has taken a constructive stand on financing .
it wishes to commence talks with the council in which all the opportunities of the interinstitutional agreement would be exploited to solve problems .
mr president , it is with these remarks that i would like , on behalf of my group , to support the policy of the committee on budgets in next year ' s budget .
our group will support your proposals for the most part .
however , we oppose the gue ' s strategy , which submitted a proposal out of the blue in the committee on budgets yesterday , to reject the budget .
like the budget before it , budget 2001 had almost insoluble conflicts to contend with : on the one hand the pressure of consolidation and cost-cutting policy , as agreed under the interinstitutional agreement , in order to secure the financing of the enlargement process , and on the other hand , the acute financing needs of the stability pact for the balkans .
financing is a balancing act between needs - financial requirements in the new member states and financing opportunities for the donor countries - and there are limited public funds .
we hope to be able to develop a common strategy over the next few weeks in order to counteract this .
mr president , commissioner , president-in-office of the council , as you know , my group has unanimously decided to table a motion rejecting the draft budget for the year 2001 .
we are going to be in some way forced to choose between these three priorities , even though they are identically legitimate and equally urgent , and this is not , in our view , acceptable .
the budget is not the be all and end all , of course , but it does reflect the political will of the fifteen member states .
jacques chirac spoke lyrically , in this very chamber , of the europe of all citizens , male and female , yet the draft budget of the fifteen envisages an absolute reduction in appropriations in chapters as important as social action , employment , education , training , youth , culture , audiovisual media and the environment .
on some of these lines , even the amendments from the committee on budgets , although positive , fall short of the 2000 budget .
the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy has done so , and the president of the european parliament clearly expressed the same views in biarritz .
had this amendment been adopted in its initial version , it might have started to deal the cards afresh , but the idea was rejected by the majority of the committee on budgets .
this is a blind alley , which my group is not ready to go down .
in this connection , i should like to refer to a crucial passage in the speech by the general rapporteur .
our motion to reject the council text is specifically aimed at contributing towards highlighting , in good time , this key political problem on which , sooner or later , we shall have to deliver an opinion in order , in the long term , to match european projects with the resources needed to implement them .
mr president , commissioner , the french presidency of the european union is coming to an end at the time when parliament is voting on the budget for 2001 .
we can only , in such circumstances , support parliament ' s attitude and the back the amendment in favour of meda , restoring the appropriations of the preliminary draft budget , in the same way that we must be pleased at the significant increase in agricultural expenditure and the special place given to the second pillar of the cap , promotion of the countryside , while , however , deploring the position of the committee on budgets , which rejected almost all the amendments from the committee on agriculture and rural development seeking to compensate for the council ' s drastic cuts in the fruit and vegetable sector and also in the pig farming sector .
the amount of aid allocated to the balkans might give him to think so , with both the eur 200 million released from the 2000 budget as emergency aid and the appropriations for 2001 which , even so , represent an increase of 30 % over and above the 2000 budget .
the policy of aid for the balkans must now concentrate massively on serbia , a region impoverished by our bombing raids last year and by our economic sanctions which hit it so hard .
the aid we propose to contribute must safeguard rather than threaten the serbian national identity .
let us therefore put an end to direct aid to these provinces - occasionally without a legal basis , as we saw in this chamber not so long ago in the case of montenegro - direct aid that serves primarily to fuel the separatist movements .
in conclusion , we must clearly remember that , as far as we are concerned , aid for the balkans in no way justifies requests for revision of the financial perspective .
the bottom line of every budget year shows a surplus , indicating that the amounts of appropriations we have voted on do not correspond to the real needs of the situation .
mr president , as usual , i am speaking on behalf of the members of the bonino list , and i would like to start by echoing the congratulations to the two rapporteurs on the work they have done in recent months and , in general , congratulating the committee on budgets on its work .
we do not agree with the method , which is why , in this first reading , we place our confidence in the rapporteur ' s approach , in spite of what happened last night in the committee on budgets , in the hope that this will constitute a basis for effective discussion with the council in-between the first and second readings .
unfortunately , mrs haug has adopted a political line which only takes account of the supporters of a federal europe .
unfortunately , the rapporteur still has not grasped that this is why we must tread water for the time being . " let ' s do better with less " , as commissioner patten said , is lost on her .
the fact that this confidence is lacking is obvious from the drop in the currency value of the euro , which , since its launch , has lost nearly 30 % of its value compared to the yen and the american dollar .
that confidence will not grow by ploughing even more money into the budget , but it will if the budget is implemented efficiently .
naturally we too are in favour of giving aid to the balkans and serbia .
the rapporteur ' s proposal to use this principle for meda , however , does not meet the ' new ' or ' unforeseen ' requirement , and is all the more surprising in the light of the fact that spending levels have not been reached in the meda programme .
mr bourlanges made the cursory note that the 2000 budget for latin america had probably been somewhat too generous .
the council agrees with the creation of 400 posts which , according to commissioner patten , the commission needs in order to eliminate the backlog of payments .
finally , mr heaton-harris was right to refer in his amendments to the onesidedness of many european programmes , in which the citizen is treated to a propaganda-like tale on european integration , and at the expense of the citizens themselves would you believe .
the union must realise that certainly not all citizens dream of far-reaching integration .
it is just as well , given that of the 15 member states only 7 are likely to be able to present a positive balance sheet for the year 2000 .
there is therefore little prospect of us receiving additional revenue in the form of higher contribution payments from the member states .
i am referring to the absolutely crucial payments required by the balkan countries , which the council has now cut back on .
i therefore hope that the newly created budgetary line - which a few people , myself included , have been critical of - for financing the european parties , is not used to award funds to those who have already squandered away funds made available at national level and are now in fact in debt .
i also hope that the conditions attached to the establishment of 400 additional service posts within the commission will actually be fulfilled .
i hope that in the course of further negotiations with the council these principles will actually be upheld , and that in this way , we will be able to jointly adopt a budget for 2001 that benefits the citizens .
in the context of these objectives , a raft of measures is proposed for next year , which in our opinion will help to improve the current situation .
the needs are self-evident , we have many commitments , the importance of external cooperation in asserting the european union ' s presence on the world stage is obvious , and there is a very low implementation rate for various programmes .
the meda programme , which focuses on the mediterranean basin , a geographical area of the utmost strategic importance , is a good example of our inability to implement our programmes .
with a view to resolving current bottlenecks , a general reserve should be created under category 4 - a performance reserve - which will be used in proportion to the extent to which the various items are implemented .
the third aspect to be emphasised is that if we wish to see greater coordination between the european institutions , we should promote , in theory and in practice , the integration of the commission ' s legislative programme and the budgetary process , as well as informing parliament in advance of decisions by other institutions that may have an impact on the budget .
by preserving this strategic approach in the way we address the budget this year and in years to come , the european parliament will fully play its role in the budgetary process .
the fact that category 4 ' s ceiling has now been exceeded by eur 380 million tells us that we really should have done something like that .
we are trying to safeguard parliament ' s priorities in category 4 .
but there are three areas which are giving us cause for concern .
kosovo , of course - which we had the problem with last year .
in fact , we have problem in that we have given too much .
with the transfer of eur 175 million we have estimated eur 25 million more than we expected .
we will try to get an agreement with the council and the commission on that .
i turn now to what mr wurtz said before .
but to reject the budget at this stage , at first reading , is totally wrong .
the content of the argument is worth considering for support , but to try to reject the budget at first reading is nonsense .
we have a long way to go before we get to the second reading but at least he has given us something to think about .
on the western balkans , president-in-office , you said that the council considers eur 614 million to be enough .
there is a distinct difference between parliament and the council .
my flight is booked for friday , so i am ready for a long night on thursday , but i hope that at the end of all this we can get a budget we are all satisfied with , so we can do justice to the tax-payers of the european union , to the people we represent , but also to those in need , especially in the meda areas , especially in serbia and especially in the western balkans .
thank you very much , mr wynn .
we would particularly like to thank you for making us smile and even laugh about a subject as serious as the budget .
thank you for the answer .
question no 3 by ( h-0714 / 00 ) : subject : cost of the activities of the ' three wise men ' in austria which funds are being used to cover the costs of the activities of the ' three wise men ' , who have been deployed by the portuguese presidency to assess the situation in austria ?
my answer is very simple .
the council played no part in this matter and the community budget was not used in any way .
the expenditure committed in order to fund the task of assessing the austrian situation was actually funded in its entirety at national level by austria ' s 14 partners within the european union .
the presidency did , of course , make a contribution to this .
mr president , minister moscovici , one question the public , and also quite a number of meps have been asking themselves , is : what was the role of the embassies in this connection ?
we really cannot avoid this question .
i therefore think it was quite appropriate , in this context , to ask an external authority , that was not morally implicated , to undertake this task .
question no 5 by ( h-0776 / 00 ) : subject : violation of human rights and dismantling of paramilitary groups in colombia paramilitary groups have stepped up the murders of farmers , journalists , trade unionists , political leaders and human rights activists over the past few months .
ramiro zapata was the latest of 25 human rights activists to be murdered and , recently , the colombian press condemned the paramilitary groups ' " plan 100 " to kill one hundred human rights activists .
the government has recognised the " accidental " killing of six children in puerto rico on 15 august .
yes , generally the european union regularly condemns in the strongest possible terms the serious human rights violations which , unfortunately , are still being committed practically every day in colombia .
while supporting the efforts made by the colombian government to make progress in the peace process , the european union has stressed , and continues to stress , that government ' s necessary commitment to respect for human rights in colombia .
the european union has also appealed for the commitment of all parties to seeking a negotiated solution to the conflict , without which it would be impossible to establish any lasting peace .
on several occasions , the european union has affirmed its willingness to support , to the extent that it can and with the most appropriate means , all efforts to secure a peace agreement .
in this respect , a joint declaration should be read by france ' s representative , on behalf of the presidency , on the meetings in support of the peace process scheduled to be held in bogota on 24 october 2000 , which should , in particular , stress the need to support the rule of law and the fight against the causes of violence , to boost aid for the victims of violence , to defend human rights , protect biodiversity and the environment , and step up consultation and regional cooperation .
you may rest assured , finally , that respect for human rights , and the promotion of human rights , are , in any case , a key component of the european union ' s cooperation with third countries .
mr president , i want to thank the president-in-office for his reply which was very comprehensive .
i am a bit happier with the attitude of the council today than i was in july because , as on many occasions in situations of crisis , the european union seems always to be the last authority to arrive on the international scene and make its voice heard .
nevertheless , is the council aware of the amount of money that the european union provides , something like ten times what the united states provides for development cooperation throughout the world ?
i am not unaware of amount of money the americans are promising in aid for colombia , for example , the bulk of which is earmarked for activities to combat drugs trafficking .
at the same time , from my own experience , i think you are somewhat mistaken in making such a generalisation .
but in that case we are in a rather peculiar situation given the historical links between the united sates and the continent of south america .
many of us believe that the problems in colombia , as in other latin american countries , stem from the issue of whether or not peasant-farmers own land .
in 1984 , 0.2 % of landowners in colombia owned 32 % of the land .
in the port of buenaventura , 20 peasant-farmers were murdered .
far away , in another area called cienaga , there have been over 200 murders since the paramilitaries moved in a year ago .
the question , mr president , and i shall end here , is whether there is a solution that would exert greater pressure than that proposed by the president in his statement and whether the aid we are going to give will be entirely different from that of the united states , in other words , not intended for crop-spraying , but for crop replacement and also for social , rather than military , purposes .
this is an inadequate response by the european union .
i should just like to confirm my previous answer .
while taking the honourable member ' s comments very seriously , i still think that this aid is useful and should be intensified .
the council is not here to make comments on every aspect of this extremely sensitive and painful issue .
mr president , when you mention the text of the supplementaries and the president-in-office ' s response , could i remind the president-in-office that the original question specifically related to the massacre in colombia , whether or not the council has had discussions on this event and if it plans to make any formal protest or not .
the questions that i and other members asked are very specifically related to the situation in colombia .
i specifically stated - and this will have been noted in the minutes - that the incident you refer to in your question has not been specifically referred to the council and that the council has not mentioned the matter as such in this debate .
i should not like you to think that the council does not answer the questions asked of it .
at the same time , it is just not possible to undertake an ad hoc debate on matters like this , which are , let me repeat , extremely complex ones .
as they deal with the same subject , question nos 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 and 13 will be taken together .
question no 6 by ( h-0718 / 00 ) : subject : international financial transactions at the next annual meeting of the imf , does the council plan to propose that the imf committee should study possible arrangements for introducing a tobin-type tax on international financial transactions with a view to combating speculation and stabilising currency markets ?
question no 8 by ( h-0720 / 00 ) : subject : tobin tax how does the council intend to help future governments deal with the emerging crisis in national taxation because of tax competition and off-shore financial centres , and would it consider new streams of taxable revenue such as currency transactions ?
question no 11 by ( h-0725 / 00 ) : subject : viability of tobin-type taxes at european level in view of the recent report issued by the french minister of finance indicating that tobin-type taxes would not be viable if introduced by a single member state , what steps does the french presidency propose with a view to securing the viability of such taxes at european union and global level ?
question no 12 by ( h-0735 / 00 ) : subject : tax on financial transactions in recent months there have been growing calls for a tax on financial speculation , with attac committees ( association for a tax on financial transactions and aid for citizens ) springing up in france and europe , as well as the amendments tabled in the french national assembly and senate .
no , i shall try not to give you too academic an answer , but you put me in a difficult position in asking me these questions because we could easily spend more than one evening answering , and in any case we shall no doubt be overrunning the allotted hour with the questions that are coming up .
i should just like to say , once again , speaking on behalf of the council , that the council is perfectly aware of topical events and the importance of these issues .
i shall therefore beware of giving a definitive answer to this difficult question .
firstly , i think everyone recognises that this tax , known as tobin tax could operate properly only if applied at world level .
it must be noted , however , that while it may be possible to seek a consensus within the european union , no such consensus exists within g7 , especially within the oecd , regarding levying a tax on exchange transactions .
we are even aware , and this is an economic line of reasoning , that if there were a broad consensus , then a limited number of financial places would have a real interest in adopting an uncooperative attitude and refusing to apply the tax on transactions within their territory .
the question that i must ask those who advocate the tobin tax , therefore , is exactly how we can offset that risk that would exist that speculative activities would shift location to tax havens , since this is a phenomenon which must be avoided if such a tax were to be adopted .
i should also like to have answers to the question of what influence it would have on the volatility of the exchange markets , particularly what would be the effect of a tax of 0.1 per thousand on speculators expecting devaluation in the order of 20 to 50 % .
there would , besides , be a risk of this tax being bypassed due to the high level of innovative performance in the modern financial world .
this fight , which is one of the priorities of the french presidency , was expressed at both the justice and home affairs council and the ecofin council , and recently in a combined meeting of these two councils .
it is just that we get the impression , and your answer testifies to this somewhat , that the council presidency is not being very proactive in dealing with this issue .
i must act prudently , not in general but in using terms such as ' code of conduct ' .
this is therefore a key policy guideline which , without constituting an alternative to the project for the tobin tax , is perhaps more realistic in the short term and is one which the current presidency values extremely highly .
in one of its resolutions , the acp-eu joint assembly , held in brussels from 9 to 12 october , referred explicitly in recital c and in paragraph 21 to the creation of a tobin tax .
we do have to consider a number of questions calling for specific answers , particularly on the subject of funding development , and clearly efforts must focus on the improvement and the quality of state aid for development , the development of trade , strengthening international financial institutions , and the issue of debt must be considered in depth once again .
the minor amount you mention is precisely in the same order as the daily variations in the euro / dollar exchange rate , and this is something we are attempting to combat by other , infinitely more costly methods .
i think that , in spite of everything , fluctuations in the euro / dollar exchange rate are , unfortunately , higher than this sort of value , and it is true that we have to deal , in the long term , with speculators who expect far greater devaluation .
indeed this is what has happened in the case of the euro over the year , whether we like it or not .
you have before you not pierre moscovici the militant or even pierre moscovici , speaking in his capacity as minister , although i have attempted to introduce a few personal remarks in relation to the position prepared for me .
i am supposed to be speaking on behalf of the council , the council being the body uniting the ministers of the 15 european union member states .
mr moscovici , you can see that the eight questions come from the left of the chamber .
i also excuse them , but we shall apply the rules of procedure .
firstly , will he come and speak to us as a militant on a future occasion ?
secondly , is he aware that the recent labour party conference passed a document which overwhelmingly said that they would work with its international partners and all stake-holders towards addressing the concerns raised by advocates of the tobin tax and introducing new mechanisms for international stability and better global financial regulation ?
i shall , of course , continue in the same vein , especially as i feel we must consider that this debate bears witness to the fact that increasing numbers of people , particularly within the european union , are wondering about applying stricter control to financial speculation and also about the ability of the political authorities to intervene in this economic sphere and the extravagant powers of the multinationals .
so , at a time when people feel that politics does not have the ability to intervene in the economic sphere , and also more generally in the role of european construction in order to alter its conduct of international relations , do you not think that a measure of this kind could contribute to restoring confidence in the political world ' s power to act and , hence , could it not serve as a message sent out to the countries and the peoples of the south ?
i should just like to repeat , once again , the fact that in discussing the tobin tax , we must also question the conditions for the effectiveness of such a tax .
i think we should perhaps attempt to get outside the too narrow area of preferences in order to also ask economic questions .
mr president-in office , you said at the start of your speech that this matter could be discussed endlessly here in parliament .
you are quite right and i would also like to remind you that we have already once discussed this subject in great detail , and these very same colleagues of mine asked the same questions before .
the reason why we have been quiet here on the right is therefore that we have already examined these matters once and , in our opinion , we do not need to talk about the same issues over and over again in this chamber and use up our precious time doing so .
the adoption of the tobin tax on a global scale will be impossible .
as for the rest , i should just like to add that france has indeed looked into a number of areas of reform with a view to answering the concerns behind the proposal to establish a tobin-type tax , even if questions of how it is actually going to work remain unanswered .
as the author is not present , question no 14 lapses .
the number of cases of bse , or bovine spongiform encephalopathy , that have been identified in europe over the last few years is , as we know , a major area of concern .
the council is more than ever anxious to take every step possible in order to eradicate this disease .
i should like to specify briefly that the recent increase in the number of cases identified does not mean that the epidemic is spreading wildly .
on 7 january 1999 , the commission put forward a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation seeking to consolidate the texts previously adopted by the commission as precautionary measures in order to establish rules for the prevention and supervision of certain forms of bse .
this was designed to offer consumers a guarantee of a very high level of protection .
the european parliament delivered its opinion on the commission proposal at first reading , during the sittings of 15 and 19 may 2000 .
it adopted 48 amendments , 40 of which were accepted by the commission .
the council is actively involved in examining the commission proposal and these amendments with a view to managing in the near future to issue a position on this .
moreover , in anticipation of adopting this directive on the prevention of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies , a decision on the prohibition of the use of material presenting risks as regards these diseases was taken in june 2000 , in order to stop any further spreading of the epidemic and in order to guarantee the highest possible health protection standards for the consumer .
the decision therefore applies to the production and commercialisation of products derived from animals that are made from or contain materials from animals of bovine , ovine or caprine species .
the specified risk materials for compulsory removal and destruction from now on are the following : " the skull including the brains and eyes , the tonsils , the spinal cord and the ileum of bovine animals aged over 12 months " ; " the skull including the brains and eyes , the tonsils and the spinal cord of ovine and caprine animals aged over 12 months ...
the council , of course , is careful to monitor development in scientific findings and in the implementation of rapid diagnostic tests .
for the time being , as you know , applications are to be made to national budgets in procedures for the compensation of livestock farmers .
i have not read this morning ' s papers yet , but i believe i can make a sincere case to promote french beef in general .
i should not like to get into this very acrimonious debate or to get involved in bilateral french-british considerations .
mrs isler beguin will pardon me if i do not wish to go into great detail in response to a debate on bse which has a justifiable place in this house after entering into a debate on the tobin tax .
i must tell you , mr cushnahan , that the document is distributed to all members in their pigeonholes and that the secretariat of each political group receives them on mondays .
question no 16 by ( h-0731 / 00 ) : subject : ban on oil tankers in the strait of bonifacio the strait of bonifacio is an extremely dangerous passage for shipping .
the corsican and sardinian coastlines on either side are of exceptional ecological and historical value , as acknowledged by the 1993 franco-italian agreement , which prohibits french and italian merchant ships carrying hazardous products from travelling through the strait .
regarding international traffic in transit , international law stipulates , subject to certain reservations , that the vessels of all states have the ' right of innocent passage ' in territorial waters .
already , following proposals by france and italy , the international maritime organisation , imo , has adopted two resolutions , which have been in force since 1 december 1998 , on establishing rules for shipping traffic in the strait of bonifacio and making it compulsory for vessels entering the strait to identify themselves .
the council also recently issued favourable guidelines on the draft directives amending the 1995 directive on the inspection of vessels by the state port , and the draft on vessel inspection bodies .
i should , moreover , like to point out , as commissioner barnier did this morning , that these maritime safety issues , on the basis of a commission communication , were dealt with in a totally positive fashion at the informal european council in biarritz , after the french prime minister simply asked the commission to bring forward , if at all possible , the cut-off date for authorisation of single hulled vessels from 2015 to 2010 , which seems quite a reasonable request , in any case , and a perfectly realistic ambition .
thank you for your answer , mr president , but the question went rather further .
these resolutions were adopted and came into force on 1 december 1998 .
regarding international traffic in transit , international law , particularly the united nations convention on the law of the sea , stipulates , subject to certain reservations , that the vessels of all states have the ' right of innocent passage ' in territorial waters .
any action by the two governments concerned is therefore limited by this international law .
excellent question .
as the time allotted to questions to the council has run out , question nos 17 to 46 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , commissioner , i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur .
i would also like to say a few things about agriculture .
the commission does not label this as information policy , but social policy .
the second point i wanted to make concerns quality policy for agricultural products , for which parliament earmarked 50 million of the budget last year .
mr president , the european union ' s budget for next year has been prepared in difficult circumstances .
the problems are the same as last year .
the previous european parliament made this interinstitutional agreement , which was binding on this parliament , a couple of months prior to the commencement of this parliamentary term , and it specified too low a ceiling for category 4 expenditure .
new money is needed in the budget for serbia and kosovo .
i would like to focus attention on the fact that there seem to be sufficient amounts of european union money for financing political parties at european level , but not , for example , for the prevention of unemployment .
i quote the exact words of parliament ' s resolution : ' the european parliament requests the commission to pay special attention to structural problems of an economic or social character caused by natural disasters and to look favourably on measures to help solve these problems ; stresses the need to re-establish line b4-3400 ( urgent aid for natural disasters within the european union ) so that urgent needs can be addressed immediately , fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity ' .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , our budget for 2001 , with its eur 92.5 billion in payment appropriations adds two new items to the traditional features .
as regards the traditional features , apart from the problems of ensuring that the projections are honest ones , we have , first of all , the problem of budgetary cuts for european farmers , with eur 300 million of agricultural aid and eur 225 million of appropriations for rural development cut .
there is nothing for beekeepers , who were asking for a mere eur 15 million , even though it is possible to increase expenditure for the balkans by 30 % .
we have the whole kit and caboodle of subsidies for associations working with drugs , xenophobia , immigrants , the jean monnet house , the exile council , the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction , even the prince campaign .
finally , the third traditional feature is the budgetary funds poured into foreign preferences .
i hope , mr president , and this is my concluding remark , that we are at least going to cut the eur 50 million budget lines financing the israel-plo peace agreement .
mr president , in the haug report the sentiment is expressed that the commission , in close cooperation with parliament , is responsible for providing information to the european citizen about the policies of the european union .
but parliament has another responsibility : it is to represent the concerns of the citizens of member states to the european union , something which appears to be discouraged here .
it will be not unknown to some members here that my party , the ukip , seeks the withdrawal of the uk from the european union .
mr president , the problem with the 2001 budgetary year is more one of quality than of quantity .
we all know that there was no category relating to external action in the financial perspective adopted in berlin .
the military action against serbia , aid for reconstruction , the foreseeable fall of milosevic .
however , the financial perspective was a success because it was , at the time , the only possible agreement between 15 member states .
the interinstitutional agreement that resulted from the summit was good news for the powers of this parliament .
external needs reveal the shortages in category 4 .
in the european union , we do not even know who is responsible .
it is true that , if the council took an intransigent position , it would make things difficult in such important areas as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for meda , the management committees , increases in payments in order to absorb the remainder that needs to be paid or the extension of the n + 2 planning procedure to external actions .
if the council took a flexible position , we could reach an agreement at second reading in order to close the budget .
but they cannot be extended ad infinitum .
today we are also debating the colom i naval report on the interinstitutional agreement , in which the commission undertakes to present parliament with all the necessary information for initiatives that have financial implications .
now , in 2000 , after more than 15 years of parliamentary history , is when this initiative comes to parliament .
the european parliament is the other branch of the budgetary authority and , despite this , it is the press that often informs us of the union ' s new financial commitments made in the european councils .
then , when the commitment has already been announced and made , they just have to ask the commission and its commissioners to make a gap in the budget and parliament to accept it .
we are now at first reading and you have enough time to seek full agreement with parliament .
consider the fact that , in european policy , as in any other field , sometimes the moderate options cease to be the majority options .
there are three major issues which we should be concerned about in relation to the budget for other institutions .
firstly , how far does this budget improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the institutions ?
on the first point , i believe that this budget continues to apply the principles of budgetary rigour , budgetary prudence , improving efficiency , more effective budget control , better use of resources and a general tightening up , which are all vital to increase the confidence of the eu citizen in the institutions .
having said that , the principle of budgetary rigour can be developed further in every area .
in the case of parliament , how can we talk about budgetary rigour and still base ourselves in three different cities , in three different member states ?
without wishing to give offence to our host city here in strasbourg , our monthly part-sessions in this city are a manifest waste of time , money and parliament ' s ability to be effective and efficient .
my group believes that parliament ' s bureau needs to review its decision and also to draw up a full list , with clear criteria , for those exceptional cases where members can draw a daily allowance for their presence in brussels during constituency weeks .
furthermore , we parliamentarians also need to address the issue of the statute for assistants .
the commission is starting to get its own house in order and it is crucial that the other institutions are seen to follow suit .
in particular , the other institutions should follow the commission as quickly as possible in implementing activity-based budgeting .
the system is anything but transparent .
but of course it is not enough to encourage reform in each institution separately .
there needs to be greater vigour and determination for the parliament , council and commission to cooperate as closely as possible on issues such as translation , interpretation , libraries and buildings .
nowhere is it more important than for us to demonstrate value for money in the buildings policy .
this strategy has already been introduced by joan colom i naval , the vice-president for buildings .
instead of simply showing expenses distributed among accounts , the new-format budget shows more clearly what we are getting for our money .
as elected representatives , we are of course delighted with any move to make the budget more easily understandable .
this spring , commissioner chris patten illustrated this by asking why the eu was appropriating more money to cleaning up after hurricane mitch in latin america than it had appropriated to developing the russian economy .
all of us - the council , parliament and the commission - agree that we must be thrifty , and we have all kept dutifully below the established ceiling for expenditure .
i do not think our electorate will appreciate technical justifications in terms of the budget for the fact that we cannot in harmony find the money for serbia and the balkans without reducing our efforts in other countries .
there is , however , a popular demand that we solve the problem of how best to provide aid to serbia .
mr president , may i first of all express my admiration for the rapporteur .
the total quoted so far of eur 200 million for serbia hardly even begins to meet the real needs .
i welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this important debate and to dwell on the importance of the agricultural budget and its relevance not just to farmers but to society in general .
those with an interest in developing a sustainable agricultural sector will be aware that the central thrust of recent reform as agreed in berlin is a continuing move from commodity support to direct income support for farmers .
in some areas of agricultural activity , such as bee production , eu support represents the profit margin which in effect means consumers enjoy a quality food product at production costs and regretfully , as demonstrated in recent years , sometimes below the cost of production .
in berlin last year it was agreed that the budgetary provision for agriculture for the period 2000-2006 will be over  506 billion , that the 15 member states of the european union will continue to contribute 1.3 % of gross national product to the overall annual budget - which of course includes measures to finance the proposed enlargement of the european union , a proposal which i and my other colleagues fully support .
frustrated because , after lengthy debates within the committee on budgets and after the commendable efforts of the general rapporteur , to whom i must pay tribute , i cannot see exactly what parliament ' s intentions are regarding the key problem of the revision of the financial perspective .
by and large , we have two standpoints , that of the council which persists in wishing to fund the new requirements of kosovo and serbia from the budget total established in berlin without revision , and that of the commission which is proposing to revise the financial perspective in order to finance these new requirements without seriously affecting the other policies , particularly the meda programme .
to date , parliament has always been in favour of avoiding redistributing funds within category 4 in order to finance the new requirements .
in spite of the rapporteur ' s bolder proposal , we have voted in a text which does not mention the word " revision " , as if it was too vulgar a term , the r word rather than the f word , nor does it mention amounts , as if it were possible to reach any negotiated solution without specifying the amounts involved .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , first of all , i would , of course , like to thank all rapporteurs .
i was able to experience this first-hand over the past two weeks when , during a trip in the western balkans , i visited kosovo and bosnia .
and i am telling you loud and clear : kostunica must be given his chance here and i therefore hope that he will give amnesty in the next couple of weeks or months , but meanwhile , i do want the introduction of those two new budget lines , democratisation and reconstruction , to be accompanied by political conditions , both from a political and budgetary perspective .
for it is true that my visit to bosnia taught me that the situation there is very problematic indeed .
all the people i talked to over there applauded the switch of power in serbia , but they all feared a reduction in the financial resources at the same time .
i therefore back all efforts , together with mr lagendijk , to inject maximum funds in the western balkans .
mr president , the council really has surpassed itself in its proposed draft budget 2001 .
in the final analysis , it is immoral to cut spending on agricultural policy , on the meda programme and on the socially excluded , in order to find the resources to finance the european union ' s commitments in kosovo and yugoslavia .
this budget is unacceptable .
the challenge faced by the new president is , at the same time , a challenge to us europeans .
the process of democratisation has only just begun .
the retreat of the old serbian government and the formation of a transitional cabinet of experts , as well as the election of the new serbian parliament on 23 december of this year , are important prerequisites for replacing the old socialist-communist nomenclature in the republic of serbia , just as it has already been replaced in montenegro , and for opening the door to democratic changes .
the latest elections contributed a further 80 municipalities to our democratic contacts at local level , so that we have a sufficient number of intermediaries at this level too .
those responsible for politics and the economy in serbia emphasise again and again that they do not wish to become dependent upon our help , but that they need our help now in order to alleviate need in the short term and that they will then need help to help themselves introduce a social market economy in the medium and long term and in order also to make necessary foreign investment possible .
professor kostunica deserves our support .
i am also sure that this parliament will concur with this judgement of mine when he has spoken before us in this chamber on 15 november .
i very much hope that in the debate on the cards programme , which of course covers our financial commitment to all these countries , we show the same level of commitment and give each country its due .
firstly , i would like to say something about the backlog of payments which each year causes headaches as a result of the council ' s eagerness to cut payment appropriations , with the aim of obtaining this absurd and false saving , which looks very good on the national balance sheet , but which in reality only produces what we call a burden for the future , because it is clear that what has been committed to - commitments entered into - in previous financial years has to be fulfilled .
having said this , and also taking into account that the commission itself has admitted that for 2001 applications from member states for payments for the structural funds exceed the predictions of the pdb by eur 8 000 million , i think that it is now time for the council to start considering very seriously that we should do something about payments and not increase the backlog of payments .
i am in no doubt about the reason for the existence of these parliaments , but there is no harm in pointing out that the socrates programme derives from a legislative codecision procedure between parliament and the council , and that decisions such as this set a serious precedent which will , in the future , allow the inclusion of comments on programmes of any type of action that do not fit in elsewhere .
i think that this distorts the legislative procedure for adopting programmes and , above all , the content of those programmes .
mr president , the current financial perspective clearly does not reflect our existing priorities and commitments .
the mainstay of parliament ' s strategy should be to force the council to guarantee that new resources will be allocated to new objectives , in order to prevent these new objectives from being implemented using resources earmarked for existing priorities .
we clearly appreciate certain aspects , specifically the fact that the year 2000 amounts for development policies have been retained .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are talking about a budget with some eur 96.8 billion in commitments and eur 94.7 billion in payments from parliament ' s point of view .
far below the ceiling for own resources , therefore .
for us , however , it is crucial that , on 15 november , the commission should submit - as we shall demand that it do - a clear , detailed and intelligible report on how we are dealing with the commitments entered into so far and with the total arrears in payments .
until these figures are available , there will be problems in releasing the general implementation reserve of some eur 650 million .
it must also , of course , be made clear to the council that it also has its share of responsibility for the deficiencies in the way that many external programmes have been handled .
we say yes to 400 new jobs in 2001 .
in this connection , efforts are required to solve the major social problems , for example unemployment .
that is particularly important , bearing in mind that there is money for efforts in all these areas .
we therefore also believe that , in future , we must further reform agricultural policy in the direction of lower costs and that we must definitely remove expenditure such as aid for tobacco cultivation , which makes no sense at all .
the minister simply had his facts wrong .
the system assumes that the payment appropriations more or less simply follow the spending patterns , but the council adds its own mechanism , and it is that mechanism which threatens to undermine berlin , despite the fact that berlin is under way in real terms .
for sweden , this would involve approximately eur 65 million .
by adopting the necessary priorities in the budget , we shall tackle both of these historic commitments successfully .
on the other hand , it is important for the peace of mind of thousands of workers , and compatible with the overall amount planned , that the level of aid planned for this financial year for the social chapter for coal should be maintained .
mr president , one of the great privileges of parliamentarians is to talk about the budget .
but my main point is about the acp .
yes , it is a parliamentary assembly but it has no budget to control , because the edf budget which we use for the acp is apparently controlled by the member states .
we have a parliamentary assembly which does not have a budget .
to go on subsidising tobacco cultivation at the same time is a downright contradiction in terms .
i know that this proposal is not at present capable of winning a majority , but i should like to call upon as many fellow meps as possible to vote in favour of this package of measures in order simply to set an example so that we might finally make some headway on this issue .
another important point relates to the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products in london .
this definitely requires an increase in its budget , for we ourselves have of course given it a new additional task .
the committee on budgets has also recognised this .
mr fischler is negotiating hard , but unfortunately without success so far .
i am confident of a positive vote in this area , that is to say in the fisheries area as a whole , for i believe that only this will constitute an expression of our common political will .
those who are in charge of the future of this parliament would do well to recognise it is a one-day debate they require , not a two-day debate on the budget in future .
i say without apology that i am going to address the effects that the european union has had in my region .
the peace and reconciliation programme which was brought about by three members of this parliament in conjunction with the former president of the commission , jacques delors , has been very positive for northern ireland .
the partnership boards have been a success in that area .
i also have to make it very clear that we now have a fledgling new regional government in northern ireland of which my party leader , david trimble , is the first minister .
you have to understand that northern ireland , throughout the last 30 years , through the terrorism , has suffered tremendously .
i want firstly to thank parliament , secondly to thank the committee on budgets for their continued support and understanding for my region .
thank you very much , mr nicholson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m .
the countries of the european union are at the vanguard in the protection of privacy compared to systems adopted in other parts of the world , especially those countries which have implemented the two directives , directive 95 / 46 and directive 97 / 66 - on the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of personal data .
the european model considers the protection of personal data to be a fundamental right guaranteed by legally binding rules , based on the principle of peoples ' self-determination of data , that is the principle whereby everyone must be able to decide whether and how personal data concerning him can be collected and used .
in this model , respect for standards and procedures is guaranteed by an independent authority and final jurisdiction lies with the judges .
therefore , a rule laying down the right of everyone to the protection of personal data concerning him , which must be processed fairly for specific purposes on the basis of the consent of the person concerned and subject to control by an independent authority , has been included in article 8 of the draft charter of fundamental rights of the european union .
moreover , article 286 of the treaty establishing the european communities , introduced by the treaty of amsterdam , lays down that community acts on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of data - that is the two above-mentioned directives - apply to the institutions and community bodies and that an independent supervisory body responsible for monitoring the application of such community acts must be established .
the proposal for a regulation which is being examined by parliament today implements these provisions , transposes the community legislation and establishes the office of european data protection supervisor , thereby providing appropriate , tangible guarantees of this fundamental right .
the willingness of all the institutions concerned to discuss the matter resulted in exemplary cooperation which , it is my fervent hope , will make it possible for us to reach a consensus at the first reading .
the many joint amendments reproduce the majority of the solutions identified by the council , and these already take into account the proposals made during the parliamentary debate .
in fact , article 225 , unlike article 286 , is also referred to in the treaty on european union .
provision is also made for cooperation with the national supervisory authorities and with the authorities established in the third pillar , with a view to coordinating and gradually harmonising the entire regulation of this sensitive area .
thus , for the first time , codecision will apply at the first reading to an extremely complex text which is full of technical difficulties on the particularly sensitive sector of the protection of civil liberties .
the very technical complexity of the text suggests that it would be a good idea to postpone the vote until the next part-session in order to allow an accurate check to be carried out on all the different language versions , for this has not yet been carried out .
freedom of movement requires effective crime prevention , which is less successful without effective protection of privacy .
the protection of personal privacy is included in the new eu charter of fundamental rights .
those of us who stand for european values in a eurosceptic country are now being given further arguments in favour of the eu , namely more effective protection of privacy , which is important for the citizens of a modern society .
we think that the institutional solutions are very good .
the exponential growth of the european union ' s tasks and jurisdiction , and the proliferation of community bodies , mean that we must have a precise legal definition of the citizens ' rights , and these should cover the transfer of information between european union institutions and bodies .
under the codecision procedure , the council submitted a proposal for a regulation to the european parliament on the basis of article 286 of the ec treaty .
this article specifies that data protection should be effective within the european union by 1 january 1999 .
we think it obvious that the risks related to the private lives of citizens and the misuse of citizens ' personal data are far greater in the context of the third pillar , which at present is subject to little or no judicial and parliamentary control , than in the context of the first pillar , which falls within the jurisdiction of the court of justice .
in my opinion , it is clear that we would be closing our eyes to the problem if we set up an authority of this type to cover just the community area , while the main problems arise and will , in future , arise due to third pillar bodies too .
the report which we are to adopt does not reflect this ambition .
the second and third pillars will not be covered by this regulation and will therefore remain impenetrable , to the detriment of citizens ' basic fundamental rights .
in addition to the restrictive reading of article 286 , however , it would have been possible to take article 255 of the treaty as a further legal basis in order to expand the scope of this regulation .
in the end , though , our rapporteur is well aware of these problems and is anxious not to add another two years to the existing backlog .
they must , furthermore , seek to implement means for the protection of personal data in the second and third pillars too at the earliest possible opportunity .
it is dangerous , in any case , to allow bodies such as europol or the schengen system to develop without parliamentary or judicial control .
mr president , i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report .
effectively , the problem arises from the exclusions and exceptions in the protection of personal data with regard to the second and , in particular , third , pillars , but also from the exceptions already laid down by the directives as regards police activities and activities related to national security .
the commission would first and foremost like to highlight the commitment we made to the citizens of europe to ensure protection of the personal data processed by the institutions of europe .
we are approximately two years behind schedule in relation to the date set in article 286 of the treaty establishing the european communities , hence the urgent need to reach agreement on this matter .
the council , with the crucial encouragement of the presidency , succeeded in overcoming the problems raised by a number of delegations , to ensure that the proposal for a regulation will most probably enjoy the unanimous approval of the council .
the commission has , in turn , also played a part in initiating and mediating between the council and parliament .
the commission also decided not to hold up the adoption of an instrument that is significant for the protection of citizens ' personal data .
even though it considers that the outcome is not completely satisfactory as far as it is concerned , the commission in turn decided to adopt the text produced as a result of the discussions in the council and parliament as reflected in the paciotti report , and will therefore reject any other amendments to its original proposal .
more specifically , the commission ' s position on the amendments contained in the paciotti report is as follows .
amendments nos 1 , 2 , 4 to 10 , 12 to 40 , 42 to 54 , 57 , 58 and 60 to 64 reflect the council text on the points to which the commission can give its assent .
amendment nos 55 , 56 and 59 differ from the council text , but they were the result of a political agreement between the rapporteur and the council presidency .
since the commission has decided not to obstruct the adoption of the regulation at first reading on the basis of this compromise text , it will accept these amendments .
amendments nos 3 and 11 differ from the council text , but they were the result of a political agreement between the rapporteur and the council presidency .
the commission has decided not to obstruct the adoption of the regulation at first reading on the basis of this compromise text , on condition that a statement be included in the minutes recording its legal position at such time as the council approves the regulation .
if this statement is made , the commission will accept the scope of the regulation being limited exclusively to first pillar activities .
in the view of the commission , it will be possible to adopt such regulations on the basis of article 286 .
the commission further reserves the right to subject the processing of personal data carried out under the second and third pillars to the principles contained in the regulation until such time as the regulations applicable to said data processing be implemented .
the commission supports this amendment , and i should like to thank mrs paciotti for tabling it .
the european data protection supervisor will in fact play a leading role in community institutions ' respecting the provisions protecting citizens ' personal data .
it goes without saying , then , that his opinion on the legislative proposals to do with the protection of personal data will be very valuable insofar as it will be a major contribution to the legislative debate between institutions .
amendment no 69 would seem to be acceptable to the commission inasmuch as the wording does not entail a challenge to its right of initiative .
the commission , therefore , understands this amendment as obliging it to consult the european data protection supervisor after adopting its proposal .
the text would be improved if it were amended to make that clear , perhaps this can be done when it is proof-read .
in any case , the commission will make a statement to this effect when the regulation is adopted in the council .
in order to honour the political agreement made with the council and the rapporteur to enable the regulation to be adopted at first reading , the commission rejects all other amendments which were not part of the paciotti report adopted by the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , except for amendment no 69 which is a correction to amendment no 41 .
thank you very much , commissioner bolkestein .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
the present and future fate of the seven european regions most remote from the continent has given our committee the opportunity to unanimously adopt a constructive and balanced document , the product of lengthy consultation .
the report published by the european commission on 14 march 2000 is not , strictly speaking , a response to the demands of national and regional authorities in the outermost regions .
the commission specifies that it is unable to provide answers to all the questions ; it often confines itself to proposing guidelines intended to continue and consolidate certain established instruments and further reserves the option of looking into the problems on a case by case basis .
article 299 ( 2 ) primarily expresses a political will , supported on repeated occasions by the european council and , today , by the european parliament .
the chief objective of my report was to remind the european commission of this political will in order to put an end to the unfortunate impression of reluctance or inertia that we are currently getting from the commission .
my report urges the commission to prepare a genuine multiannual work programme , accompanied by a detailed timetable , giving the most comprehensive details possible of the measures planned , and providing all the essential guarantees concerning the provision of the resources required to ensure the viability of the measures and to ensure that the measures concerned are taken on a long-term basis where they are intended to deal with intrinsic handicaps .
the commission has acknowledged that the agricultural and fisheries measures need to be revised or upgraded .
in addition , we need optimum coordination and use of all the instruments available at community level , in particular the structural funds , state aid schemes and tax and customs policies .
in this way it will contribute to promoting economic and social progress thanks to an increased level of employment .
moreover , there is an urgent need to initiate an analysis of the impact of the new acp-eu partnership agreement , signed in june 2000 in cotonou , and other international trade agreements with a view to assessing their repercussions for the outermost regions and drawing up measures to compensate producers in those regions liable to face additional competition which they are unable to withstand .
to conclude , finally , with a subject that has a bearing on our immediate future , the process of enlargement is unquestionably an essential element in the construction of europe , but an evaluation of its implications must be undertaken as a matter of urgency as of right now in order to prevent the aid duly allotted to the outermost regions and the projects resulting from the implementation of article 299 ( 2 ) being brought into question .
on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , i would like to thank her for the way that she took on board our amendments and points of view , both in the spirit and in the actual text of the report .
it is an attempt to establish an entirely uniform legal order for these outermost regions , which are separated from the rest of community territory , from mainland europe , by thousands of kilometres , and which are divided into small island regions with very difficult conditions for raising capital and for transport , which prevent the general rules for competition in the regions from being applied .
only through a general derogation in favour of the outermost regions will companies located in those regions be on an equal footing with companies located on mainland europe .
when regions are so distanced from the continental nucleus , trying to automatically apply the tax and customs rules that are applied in the continental nucleus would mean putting those outermost regions at a disadvantage .
for example , on the subject of transport , in paragraph 26 , the application of the rules on state aid to the ports and airports in a system of free competition would mean depriving those regions of the essential public service of ports and airports , which in outermost regions would never be a normal private activity , but an essential public service activity .
we hope that the commission will carry out this timetable or programme and , above all , we hope that the great institution that the commission currently has , the interdepartmental group , will remain in contact with the outermost regions , informing the central authorities of our needs and our specific problems .
nonetheless , it illustrates what i believe is a much more widespread problem about the relationship between reports and opinions , particularly those of a non-legislative kind .
for example , in this report only 25 words survive of the conclusions unanimously adopted by the committee on fisheries .
the bulk of the section dealing with fisheries actually consists of an amendment to the motion for a resolution tabled in the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
indeed , it covers certain issues more explicitly than the opinion does .
in the meantime , and on this particular report , i would respectfully request both the council and the commission to look at the conclusions that are not contained in the motion for a resolution , as well as the ones that are .
mr president , for the european union this is simply one more debate of the many that we hold .
for the outermost regions this is the most important debate that the european parliament can hold concerning them .
for many europeans , some outermost regions are nothing more than a holiday destination on the map .
this may even be the view of some of our fellow meps of the outermost regions .
for those of us who are speaking here tonight on behalf of our native regions , this is a very negative view , and , of course , a deeply mistaken one .
behind this idea , beyond our landscape and an exceptional climate , is the social and economic reality of regions that are among the least developed in the european union , with the highest levels of unemployment and with huge structural problems that impede our development .
one of these amendments proposes the implementation and application of the policies of the financial instrument for fisheries .
it is therefore necessary to implement a series of measures which margie sudre ' s report covers in detail .
in our view these measures need to go beyond regional development policies , because our shortfalls and handicaps are structural , not temporary .
mr president , commissioner , mrs sudre , we must bear in mind that the opportunity for us to debate here in this house today on the subject of the outermost regions is the result of a process of slow maturation .
the fact is , even though , as early as the treaty of rome , reference was made to the french overseas departments , we had to wait until 1989 and the programme of options specific to the remote and insular nature of these regions , the notorious posei programmes , for the european union to at long last acknowledge that the permanence and combination of structural handicaps affecting the outermost regions justified special treatment in comparison with the other regions of the community .
so , it has been a long wait , and the hopes expressed by our peoples have built up throughout this long wait .
we need real financial commitments , not , as we have in the 2001 budget , posei appropriations that , at the moment , have been cut by 25 % .
ladies and gentlemen , commissioner , the outermost regions are already the very emblem of the diversity , and hence the wealth of the european union .
in talks between the european union and external countries and international organisations attention must also be given to the special sensitivity associated with certain products in remote regions .
our group is also in favour of broadening the scope of article 299 ( 2 ) of the ec treaty , which will strengthen the positive achievements of the posei programmes in remote areas .
the economic development of the regions must be supported through , for example , various direct and indirect taxation solutions .
just as you , mrs sudre , as the representative of the outermost regions , rightly call for solidarity , i would also request solidarity on your part where the interests of the objective 1 regions are concerned , in the sense that no reductions in funds should be implemented for as long as the regions concerned are still handicapped in comparison with the developed regions of europe .
this question will become that much more relevant the closer eu enlargement towards the east becomes .
i am convinced that it is now already clear that , without a change to the financial perspective , it will not be possible to solve this problem .
allow us simply to act according to the proverb , ' do not put off till tomorrow what you can do today . ' mr president , commissioner , the european parliament is helping by means of this report to relaunch a policy for the outermost regions , as laid down in article 299 ( 2 ) of the treaty .
the hesitations and the occasional contradiction we have seen in the commission ' s action in this field recently would therefore be at odds with this .
there are therefore grounds for commending the position adopted by the european parliament and to praise the balance , competence and experience demonstrated by the rapporteur , mrs sudre , and the contribution made by all those who worked together with her , particularly the other seven members from the outermost regions .
since the economy of the outermost regions is classed in article 299 ( 2 ) of the treaty itself as being dependent on a single product or on a limited range of products , we must provide incentives for potential diversification and , at the same time , create better conditions for producing what people actually have the means and the ability to produce .
mr president , parliament , and in particular its committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , has been the driving force for approving specific policies and programmes for the outermost regions .
the unanimous approval by the members of the committee on regional policy of the report presented by mrs sudre demonstrates the european parliament ' s adherence to one of its most important commitments .
i should therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur and the committee on regional policy on their excellent work .
the experience of almost a decade and the new challenges created by developments in the common agricultural policy suggest that these programmes should be revised in order to sustain the ability of these regions to survive in the new climate of competition .
the dependence of agriculture and the whole economy of the azores on milk production is unparalleled anywhere else in the union .
all of us in the azores therefore hope that the commission , in view of the treaty and in view of parliament ' s position , will rapidly propose the necessary changes to the way the cap is implemented in the azores .
under this article , the outermost regions obtained recognition by the european union of a genuine right to be different , a right to be dealt with on a specific and special basis reflecting their unique situation , a situation that is completely different to that of the rest of the european union .
it should be noted that this right to be different is nothing more than a demonstration of the principle of equality , which also requires different treatment for anything that is different .
this is the only reason we want article 299 ( 2 ) , not in order to secure any privileged status for ourselves .
this qualitative leap must be reflected in the definition and implementation of a global and coherent strategy by the european union , which is what mrs sudre ' s report has rightly proposed .
the outermost regions and the citizens who live there have high hopes for the european institutions ' action in implementing article 299 ( 2 ) .
i think that she has done a magnificent job and also that she has shown imagination , calm and a capacity to reach agreements and compromises in order to present a document to this parliament and to the commission which i think can be useful and effective .
there are three regions in europe whose citizens face specific problems : mountain , island and the outermost regions .
these citizens enjoy a positive and enriching diversity , and they demand to be given the right to enjoy the same opportunities as other citizens from continental regions .
i think it extremely important for the european union as a whole , quite apart from the obvious interest it has for every man and every woman resident in our seven outermost regions .
i should like to thank you , minister sudre , for the quality of your report and its candour .
in some way , here in strasbourg you have managed to express the concerns of these remote regions - which does not happen all that often - which of course suffer from the handicaps related to their remote position and distance , compounded , for most of them , by their island nature , and other often difficult geographical or economic conditions , but these are factors which may also prove to be assets .
i should next like to make one comment on your report , to say that its underlying political line is , broadly speaking , that currently adopted by the commission .
in this undertaking , the commission has always been , and continues to be , supported by parliament , both in the legislative process - ladies and gentlemen , there are at least 700 legislative acts on these regions - and in the lengthy task of grass-roots implementation .
the report we issued in march sums the situation up .
let us not , however , forget that article 299 ( 2 ) also states that the coherence of the community legal order and the unity of the internal market must not be undermined .
this , ladies and gentlemen , means that we , that is , you and i , must find a balance between complying with general regulation and adapting policy to the specific needs of the outermost regions .
however , in many areas , such as taxation or customs , for instance , the coherence of community legislation and the unity of the internal market dictate that there are time limits , even if they are reasonably long , preferably with a mid-term assessment .
ladies and gentlemen , the report we issued on 14 march 2000 outlines a strategy which will , i believe , enable the european union to make a more effective contribution to sustainable development in these outermost regions and thereby to implement article 299 ( 2 ) in practical terms .
that is the first point .
i should like to tell her , and we know each other quite well now that i have been a commissioner for just a little more than a year , that i have fully understood that in order to make progress and to proceed successfully - and you can count on me to support this movement - we must take things one step at a time .
we needed to have this report .
our objective is , as you advocate , to improve community support for production as well as for supply .
we are working to ensure that these proposals can be presented this autumn .
i have understood the special issue of milk quotas in the azores .
it was not therefore included in the programme presented by the commission in march .
the commission is nonetheless aware of this problem for the azores , and i can confirm , having seen it myself , that milk is virtually the only form of production there .
your country , portugal , has asked the commission to look into this matter in the light of article 299 ( 2 ) .
that is all i had to say on this topical problem which you both , quite legitimately , pointed out .
i feel that this is a proper response to a demand often expressed by all these regions .
please allow me now to say a word or two as the commissioner in charge of a significant part of the structural funds through regional policy .
the amount allocated under objective 1 for the outermost regions is , as you know , ladies and gentlemen , being increased for this new period , 2000-2006 , to eur 8.077 billion .
these considerable amounts , ladies and gentlemen , are not just the expression of our solidarity with these regions , out of fairness - i would reiterate this as it is something i believe - but are also the recognition of the key role they can and must play as outposts on - to use your own expression , minister - the active frontiers of the european union in the regions where they are located .
as you know , the spds for madeira and the azores , were signed on 28 july .
that is what i have to report concerning the practical implementation of regional policy programming and the considerable funds associated to these .
ladies and gentlemen , the commission is moreover preparing initiatives to amend some of the terms regulating the structural funds with a view to making them yet more effective with regard to the outermost regions by making it easier to harness community aid for the economic operators .
it is not always an easy matter to make the practical progress in these initiatives that you expect to see .
i needed the document issued on 14 march as a basis to work on and also , ladies and gentlemen , in order to progress , and indeed make rapid progress , i now need to ensure that there is proper legal certainty .
this is not a completely obvious point which can be disregarded , even in the interpretation of article 299 ( 2 ) .
this discussion will moreover continue beyond the initiatives we are going to take in the weeks to come , in the second cohesion report which , as you ask , will assess the impact of enlargement on regional disparities .
this report , which i shall be coming to present to you personally next spring will be the starting point for a major debate on future regional policy and future cohesion policy for the period 2006-2013 .
i have a lasting commitment to aid and support for these regions , and therefore understand , ladies and gentlemen , the concern expressed , here and there , in your regions and also in the objective 1 regions , which i visit regularly , regarding the challenge of enlargement .
mr markov also raised this issue .
overall , it is a challenge we must accept in the interests of the european union , and its stability for the continent of europe , peace and democracy , and even to ensure the smooth running of the internal market , giving it new opportunities .
in these regions , as we know , there are long-term problems and i therefore believe that , objectively , in accordance with their actual level of development , they need long-term support from regional policy and special measures .
i am thinking , mr medina ortega , of a point you raised , the issue of transport , a point which has long been of interest to me , the matter of energy , renewable energies , energy sufficiency , and access to the various community programmes .
these new technologies and this information society are , ladies and gentlemen , not just a luxury for the richest regions of europe .
quite the opposite , i think that these new technologies , internet access , and all the employment opportunities related to these are a great opportunity for the remote or outermost regions .
that is why i personally strove to ensure that a significant part of the structural funds was dedicated to the information society , and access to this information society for farmers , small- and medium-sized businesses , and young people .
these results will be used towards a consultation debate , in partnership with national and regional authorities .
ladies and gentlemen , the third aspect concerns the role of the regions in their own geographical areas .
we are therefore going to initiate a study of the potential impact on the outermost regions of implementing the new acp agreement .
the first of these questioned what our future plans were , and asked for a multiannual programme .
we have undertaken , on this basis , to present annual action programmes , with timetables enabling us to gradually modulate our approach .
this group has also been assigned the task , and this is a response to another point in your report , of undertaking an ongoing examination of the various initiatives - according to one of your own recommendations - prepared by the commission , in order to ensure that the legitimate interests of the outermost regions are taken into account across the board in all community policies .
what is more , i check that this group is doing this properly on a monthly basis .
it applies to practical examples , but should also enable a periodic exchange of overviews on all subjects of concern to these regions .
it would again be possible to organise a meeting of this kind in 2001 , by which time we shall have made more progress in carrying out the programme presented in march .
in conclusion - with apologies if i have spoken too long , which i probably have , but these are important issues which i feel very strongly about - i should like to reiterate the last paragraph of the conclusions of our march report in order to stress the fact that , in our opinion , the future of these regions will be determined to a great extent by the success of the strategy which we have proposed in this report , but this success will also be extremely significant for the european union as a whole , as it will have proven its capacity to successfully take on one of the most complex challenges that exist in europe .
i am actively working , together with my fellow commissioners , for the initiatives which i mentioned on the basis of the march report .
i shall then , with your participation , if you are willing , devote my attention to conducting the dialogue on european issues - and the future and the place of the outermost regions form part of these issues .
at grass-roots level , as i started to do in the azores , it is my intention in the coming months , as soon as the intergovernmental conference is over , to visit each of these regions in order to meet you , work with you , meet the civic , social , professional and political groupings and , also , as i regularly do , to discuss matters with the people of your regions .
thank you very much , commissioner barnier .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . ( the sitting was closed at 12 midnight )
it will be recalled that there was one particular vote in the plenary session on my report that was resolved by a majority of one vote .
this has profound implications for this house , for acp countries and for europe as a whole .
i say profound implications because this house wants more and more democratic accountability .
mr president , mr evans has just referred to yesterday morning ' s vote , specifically to the vote at which certain amendments were adopted by a majority of one .
i believe it is as well for parliament to keep to the current rules because , as another member rightly said , very often it is not the machines that did not work but the members that forgot to vote ; if we were able to correct a vote after the event , we would never see the end of it .
we had a good example in the final vote on mr evans ' report .
i should also like to refer to the 19 amendments we have before us on this report .
as feuerbach said : " der mensch ist , was er isst , " man is what he eats .
we are what we eat - and sadly that is true in my case .
my report proposes the establishment of a european food safety agency which should be authoritative , independent , objective , accountable , transparent and intelligible .
its task is risk assessment and then giving advice on that risk management .
the director of the esfa is key .
there needs to be an annual report and presentation to parliament and risk reports coming to the commission , parliament and the council .
scientists need to give a report on assessment to the board who then makes sure that it is in terms the consumers understand , add any recommendations on risk management and submit it to the commission and to us .
i thank my colleagues of all parties and all member states .
i thank the commission and its staff .
i thank the council and the french presidency for their messages of support .
we have here a proposal which can work to improve the safety of our foods , to restore the confidence of the public in our respective nations .
both this food authority and the legislative proposals being proposed , which aim to guarantee food safety , will receive the support of this house , commissioner .
but i would like to draw attention to a fundamental issue : the best possible legislation and an excellent , scientifically unimpeachable food authority are not enough .
we may have other food crises and , each time this happens , consumer safety will be endangered , as will the credibility of the institutions and the interests of the agricultural sector and the agri-foodstuffs industry .
i therefore ask the commission what it plans to do in order to make the objectives of the white paper reality .
recent experience has shown that the series of crises is not due to a lack of scientific knowledge nor to a lack of ad hoc legislation .
all in all , commissioner , along with the authority , the relevant commission services must , in collaboration and coordination with the member states , establish a system of efficient , standardised controls throughout the food chain , and the network of food laboratories in the european union must be improved and their work coordinated with the commission .
setting up the european food safety agency is a major step in the right direction .
its key task is providing scientific advice , for the discussion on food safety must be pure too .
the food authority must provide objective information to both consumers and decision makers .
finally , my committee argues in favour of a strategy for third countries and candidate countries .
first , there is no doubt that legal provisions in the field of food safety and animal feed safety need to be simplified .
furthermore , they are right to demand that they have an important say , through their parliament , when food and animal feed safety with a view to protecting their health is at stake .
we must make it clear , however , that the rapid alert system and the implementation of the measures must fall within the field of political responsibility .
that is where the european commission , the council and the european parliament come into play .
it must be independent with regard to the member states , the european institutions and the agro-food industry .
i have also had an opportunity to discuss this with commissioner david byrne .
to conclude , the brief of the european food safety agency must be confined to food safety .
mr president , quite often a parliamentary colleague is given a report and you envy him or her .
we have a stark reminder this week of why we are all here and why this legislation is going through in the report in my own country - the phillips committee of inquiry into the disaster , indeed scandal , of bse .
to have such a body introduced in the european parliament as part of a raft of similar measures , which will increase our concern and care for food safety in the european union , is a good outcome to what has been a sad tale .
i will mention briefly the key amendments which i commend to the house and the commissioner and which i hope we can see voted through today .
we want the efsa to have a board which has a balanced representation of people in consumer affairs , public health and all possible areas of scientific and agricultural knowledge .
of course many of them will have had links with the food industry , links with science elsewhere .
that is understandable and natural , but we need to know how and who and where and we should be able to do so .
we must wait patiently for the commission to come forward with legislation on other matters in the food safety area - pcb standards , food labelling , allergy labelling , action on nutrition policy and the amending legislation we need for processed baby foods and infant formulae .
finally , we will also be supporting a number of the new amendments , certainly amendments nos 11-13 , 7-9 and we wish to have a free vote on amendment no 14 .
the report is right to draw a distinction between risk analysis on the one hand and risk management on the other .
that means that when food safety agency safety is examined , all products are taken into consideration , and i would refer to paragraph 11 of the resolution in this connection .
these crises , such as bse and dioxin , have become a real problem for society and lead to a loss of consumer confidence in the food they eat .
any initiative to help identify these risks is therefore a move in the right direction .
as it often does , the commission is proposing regulatory measures to remedy or alleviate the adverse effects of a policy for which it is frequently jointly responsible , without in any way questioning its own basic approach .
but let us make sure we leave it to the member states to manage these risks and to apply the precautionary principle in a reasonable and proportionate manner .
indeed , who better than the member states to carry out adequate local checks ?
who better than the member states to distinguish genuinely dangerous products from those deriving from our different food cultures , even when they pose no health risk at all ?
let us ask it to make recommendations to the political authorities responsible for risk management .
mr president , it is clear that there is considerable enthusiasm for the establishment of a european food safety agency , as our rapporteur would prefer to call it .
in the uk , as in many other countries , we have now set up our own agency amidst similar enthusiasm .
it started work this year and many had high expectations of it .
this notwithstanding , it may come as a surprise to members that i support the concept of a pan-european approach to food safety , which is embodied in the concept of the efsa .
despite so often being branded as a " little englander " by my british colleagues , i have no difficulty in acknowledging that germs know no boundaries .
thus , despite the enthusiasm for yet another eu agency , any effective control programme must look beyond the limited vision of a mere 15 states .
since 1984 we have had the highly effective world health organisation 's surveillance programme for the control of food-borne infections and intoxications in europe , based in berlin at the von ostertag-institut .
interestingly , unlike the little europeans who are so often behind this eu project , the who 's concept of europe originally embraced 32 countries , which included the former soviet union and has since expanded to include all countries from the urals to the atlantic , from iceland to israel .
as a result , many of the control initiatives which have subsequently been adopted in europe , have originated in other countries , particularly the usa .
risk assessment must start where the problems starts .
that is precisely what the who does for us : working with its regional organisations in a wholly integrated manner .
given that the who programme remains properly funded and supported , there would appear to be no need whatsoever for yet another agency , especially one with such a limited reach as the 15 member states of the european union .
but we need to avoid a situation in which the future european food safety agency and , for example , the food and veterinary office in dublin have overlapping responsibilities and powers .
not only the commission , but also every member state must be legally able to call upon this agency .
this principle must be consistently adhered to when the planned review of eu legislation on food labelling is carried out .
reliable risk assessment requires comprehensive analyses and reference measurements .
the joint research centre 's health and consumer protection institute is currently also carrying out pan-european quality and safety checks on food , and is amongst other things testing food for contamination and carrying out reference measurements for agricultural products and foodstuffs .
substantial financial means are needed for all these measures .
i wish to thank the rapporteur for that .
it was high time that the commission produced the white paper to follow the green paper published many years ago now .
we need to apply stricter legislation , stricter guidelines and stricter criteria to animal feed .
without a new framework directive we will be helpless in many areas of food safety .
i therefore want to discuss amendment no 16 .
when food safety is threatened , both public health and the common market are placed in jeopardy .
we believe that its main task must be that of assessing food safety risks and that its core activity must be that of providing scientific advice .
the white paper is a political paper for those in positions of responsibility in food production .
national peculiarities should not only be respected , but actually encouraged .
the commission will have to provide more concrete answers to these questions in its continued work .
the usefulness of the authority to be established is undeniable , both in terms of monitoring and in terms of prevention , for which , in any case , the precautionary principle does not provide adequate practical guidance .
a further aspect is the organic revision of the labelling rules for both wholesale and retail selling , which will at last provide the consumer with correct information regarding products ' traceability and make it possible to identify where responsibility lies in the event of risk or crises .
in short , it will be important to see how its independence and transparency are reconciled with the fact that no current resources have been allocated to it , with its subordination to the commission , on the one hand , and with its authority to act autonomously and the membership of its board of directors on the other .
mr president , commissioner byrne , i would like to start by thanking our friend , john bowis , for his excellent work on the white paper on food safety and , in particular , for including the various amendments tabled by different political groups .
the establishment of a european food safety agency will contribute greatly to achieving a high level of protection of citizens ' health .
the network must be as close to the citizens as possible and , in this way , their faith will be restored in the european national institutions .
mr president , parliament 's vote marks the end of this first stage of consultation on food safety issues .
i just hope that it will not also mark the end of the will to intervene rapidly and effectively in a sector which affects the daily lives of the citizens so closely and which is one of the principle benchmarks of our capacity to restore their faith in politics and in the institutions .
a european food strategy cannot be reduced merely to the creation of a monitoring authority and the application of a few - albeit necessary - health and hygiene rules .
there is an indissoluble relationship between eating healthily and eating well , a relationship of which consumers must be made more aware in order to promote quality and support the typical local products which are one of the great assets of the peoples of europe .
with the vote in the committee on the environment , we have succeeded in re-establishing a certain balance , including in the scope of the resolution nutrition issues and certain significant references to the role of small and medium-sized businesses in safeguarding diverse dietary habits .
i therefore believe that your amendment no 11 and my amendment no 17 are perfectly reconcilable .
i would single out two of these : we urgently need pcb standards at european level , as well as a positive list of ingredients of animal feed .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur for assembling the amendments of all the groups - as other members have said - in the compromise amendments .
i think he is pursuing an obvious objective which is - as he says in his document - that of guaranteeing the high levels of food safety that should exist , and a second objective that derives from the first , which is to say that of restoring credibility in the eyes of the consumer , which has been somewhat dented by scandals .
i would like to remind you of one that occurred in spain , the rape seed oil scandal - the consequences of which are still apparent now , after more than 20 years - but also the bse scandal , the dioxin scandal and the latest worrying scandal in the united states regarding the release , for use in food products , of transgenic sweetcorn that would seem to be unsuitable for consumption .
however , having said that , i believe it is to the credit of this parliament and commissioner byrne that food safety now dominates the european agenda .
the reform of european union food laws would be carried out at the level of the european union .
we want to avoid a situation where there may be a renationalisation of food purchasing within the european union .
that is why it is so important that food safety laws are enforced at european union level .
however , i fully support the introduction of clear , non-technical and standardised labelling in the context of gmo food products .
it can and must signal the start of a new beginning .
from now on , the policy will be tackled in a coordinated and integrated manner and will embrace the entire food chain .
i welcome the fact that rapporteur bowis , who has done sterling work , has opted for a positive approach to the white paper .
for example , it is right to stress that the food authority should first and foremost concentrate on food safety .
a second justified emphasis is the request for consideration to be given to regional and cultural differences in the food supply and to the role of the sme and the traditional trades in question .
both the white paper and the bowis report mention communication on the one hand and procedures in emergency situations on the other , but there is no attention to the internal and external crisis communication which is so desperately needed .
it can nevertheless - and we have first-hand experience of this in belgium - be a determining factor in managing the extent of a crisis and in whether consumer confidence in the institutions survives or not .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the white paper on food safety has laid a firm basis for better food in future and i am also hopeful of more environmentally-friendly and people-friendly production of food .
but i also understand that the many crises in europe , and i also refer to my own country , have shown that we mainly need something to hold on to .
i can understand if food safety has to be the point of departure , but surely links must be established with other areas , such as the environment , health and such like .
i hope that an energetic , future authority can get this dynamic going .
this is in the interests of consumers , but also , at the same time , the food chain in europe .
the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy has now come to adopt a reasonable policy , as there is now the desire to create a scientific , authoritative body from the food safety agency , which would have responsibility for risk assessment and keeping the public informed .
the agency must be located somewhere well-connected in terms of transport and information technology , and the area in question should have a good reputation in the area of food safety .
support from the surrounding scientific community will also be an important factor when choosing a location .
for that reason , i support amendment nos 14 and 19 , which express a desire for principled guidance in deciding a future location .
it is , however , important to define what we expect from the food safety agency and what sort of criteria should apply in selecting its location .
they include good reputation in the field of food safety , independence , and good scientific infrastructure incorporating the best available technology and good transport and telecommunications links .
these criteria will all be essential tools in realising the common aim to restore consumer confidence in european food safety as soon as possible .
the white paper on food safety is a proposal which aspires to restore consumer confidence in the entire food chain .
this is why the new european food safety agency must become a powerful and independent body which does not only inform the public but is also given specific powers to propose effective measures in good time and to investigate problems in the event of a crisis .
in the final analysis , decisions must be taken by the european commission , and parliament must , for example by means of a discussion on the annual report , remain involved in the work of the agency .
i believe they succeeded in this extremely well , and we shall now welcome legislation in this field as soon as possible .
mr president , while the european food chain is one of the safest in the world , poor practice , and indeed recent scandals , have set an agenda to which our commissioner , mr byrne , has responded admirably .
the eu must have the highest possible standards of food safety for its citizens .
food safety and public health are key political priorities .
european action is appropriate because in a single market risk does not stop at national borders .
the efsa should play an important role in the existing rapid alert system , which should be improved and extended to cover all areas of food safety , including animal feed .
the limited quantity of food we still allow ourselves must first and foremost be healthy , taste good and be produced in an environmentally sound way in consumers ' eyes .
in the european single market , which implies free trade and movement of goods , we are increasingly faced with the issue of legislative jurisdiction and responsibility for controls in this area , which is so important for the european public .
but this concept also plays a key role in food safety .
the consistency of the white paper on food safety leaves something to be desired in places .
but i intend to ask whether those cards should have been dealt at all .
we already have food safety agencies in most member states .
we have scientific committees advising the commission .
the location of the agency should therefore be not in barcelona , helsinki or italy , but on the internet , in cyberspace .
there must be clear arrangements governing the agency 's cooperation with the joint research centre in ispra and the food and veterinary office in dublin .
you must prevent several institutions carrying out similar work in parallel .
you should also use the white paper to enforce strict rules in the member states .
if the proposals for over 80 legislative measures are much the same as the hygiene rules i have now received as rapporteur , then i am very optimistic .
however , commissioner , when it comes to the provisions on labelling , please think again about your ideas ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to congratulate mr bowis on his excellent work .
however , it is also necessary to call for a balanced approach to the issue because articles 152 and 153 of the treaty on european union provide , as a general rule , for a high level of protection of human health and of consumers .
we must therefore ensure that the european union has the highest possible food safety standards , but in taking this approach - which we unanimously uphold - we must also analyse the economic implications for the sectors involved in production .
article 2 of the treaty states that the union is committed to promoting the harmonious , balanced , sustainable development of economic activities .
therefore , any legislative measure concerning a sector such as the food sector , which is one of the driving forces of european industry - accounting for 15 % of the total output of the manufacturing sector and employing 2.5 million workers - must be evaluated on the basis of this twin consideration , since both principles are intended to guarantee the general well-being of the community .
any consumer protection operation only becomes feasible in terms of profit when it avoids unduly damaging the general economic well-being of the community through placing disproportionate barriers in the way of the sector 's production processes and therefore hampering economic growth and growth in employment .
mr president , developing an independent european food safety agency is a major objective which must be achieved in conjunction with the national structures responsible for monitoring .
we must , however , ensure that in the wake of the debate on the white paper , the fear of a bureaucratic europe which concerns itself with the quality of products without doing anything effective to combat fraud that threatens the health of the consumer is not reinforced in the mind of the public .
a strategy which covers the entire food chain , from farming to production and distribution , could facilitate further economic concentration to the detriment of smaller companies and companies producing typical products , without creating any real advantage for the consumers .
the objective of food safety can and must fit in with this grass-roots situation which , as a large number of members have stressed , is of cultural as well as economic value .
upon careful examination of the white paper in the member states and here in parliament , it will then be given legislative status in the form of a new draft directive .
amendments have been tabled to that effect .
as you are aware , the commission attaches the highest priority to its strategy on food safety .
i must give special thanks to the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy and its rapporteur , john bowis , for producing this opinion with such a degree of consensus and pay particular tribute to him and to the other members of this house who have taken the time to discuss these issues with me and with my officials .
european consumers have every right to expect the highest achievable food safety standards and our ambition is to develop systems that deliver this .
several proposals are already before the council and parliament : for example , the package of proposals recasting and updating the hygiene legislation .
the white paper reiterates the commission 's commitment to basing its proposals for consumer health protection measures on sound science .
indeed , the food authority is conceived as a point of scientific excellence at the service of the community in its broadest sense : consumers , the institutions and member states alike .
the food authority will also need to be visible to the general public and be the authoritative voice in matters relating to the scientific aspects of food safety in europe .
the commission intends to adopt a proposal for a regulation establishing the overarching principles and objectives of food law , which will provide the framework for future health protection measures relating to food .
this proposal will put forward the establishment of a european food safety agency which will provide the community with advice on scientific and technical issues and thereby enable the commission to give effect to the general principles of food law .
our intention is to adopt this proposal in the commission on 8 november 2000 .
this schedule continues to reflect the importance the commission attaches to the matter and is broadly in line with the timescale set out in the white paper which envisages that the establishing legislation will be enacted in 2001 , leading to the establishment of the food authority in 2002 .
i have followed parliament 's debate on the white paper with great interest .
i am encouraged to note the high degree of agreement between parliament 's views as expressed in the draft report that you have debated , and the white paper itself .
this will facilitate the commission 's task in bringing forward a balanced proposal that takes maximum account of the views of parliament and the many stakeholders in the area of food safety .
i have previously acknowledged in parliament and other forums what i regard as an important issue for the fullest acceptance of our ideas for a food authority : the role and involvement of parliament itself in enacting the legislation establishing the food authority .
it is right and proper and i support parliament 's desire to see articles 95 and 152 of the treaty employed to this effect .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , this is not the first time that parliament has tackled the issue of anti-personnel landmines .
certainly , much remains to be done , and this is why we must all welcome the commission 's proposal as a positive step .
turning to our report , i welcome the commission 's proposal as positive , and i have to say that the committee on foreign affairs , security and defence policy and the committee on development and cooperation have worked extremely hard in order to improve it - if this was possible - on certain points in particular .
i would just like to mention a few of these points which , with regard to parliament 's proposal , seem important and , in any case , represent a tangible step forward in this matter .
firstly - and we hope that parliament will support us in this - we stress the need to destroy the stockpiles of anti-personnel landmines still held by many countries , including signatory countries , because we feel that parliament often talks about stockpile destruction as preventative action without really knowing what it is referring to .
the second point has to do with a whole series of elements - which i hope parliament will approve - regarding budget lines .
commissioner , in addition to further simplifying your proposal - thereby arriving at three budget lines : one general , one relating to research and one relating to humanitarian landmine clearance - we have further simplified the proposed comitology , and we hope that parliament will approve this , considering that an advisory committee will suffice instead of a management committee , for the very reason that , in the interests of coherent interpretation , we feel that the commission is responsible for implementing the budget and must account for it with total transparency .
another important element is that parliament is not asking for anything general but requests eur 200 million over the period 2000-2006 , plus the funds to be allocated to research , plus the humanitarian heading , for we are indeed - we hope - talking about action and not just a resolution .
moreover , precisely because the sum is so large - eur 200 million - a considerable increase on past provision - we would like the commission to establish an internal unit for anti-personnel landmine action , precisely in order to increase the transparency and cohesion of this activity .
from this perspective , these seem to me to be the characteristic elements facilitating responsible management and transparency .
the final point concerns the amendments .
the european union must be united in its action and ensure that the production of landmines is stopped , that all stockpiles are destroyed and that the ground is cleared of mines , and that assistance and means of social and economic inclusion is provided for their victims , who include many children , while safeguarding the development of the community affected .
in this sense , there must be a sharp focus on the issue and actions must be undertaken to further raise awareness in order to prevent the matter fading into obscurity .
a great many issues remain unresolved , especially since countries such as the united states have not yet signed the convention and countries such as china and russia hold enormous stockpiles .
europe must find a way to ensure that these stockpiles are eliminated from history but linger in our memories as a reminder that we must stop killing people with our lethal products .
it would be desirable if the commission could tell us what it intends to do in this area , particularly with regard to the countries applying to join the european union .
but of course its authority in this field will be greater if the council and the member states explicitly state that the european union will under no circumstances in its external relations use anti-personnel landmines or help in their use .
it is , however , essential to ensure the greatest coherence and coordination between the actions taken by the european union and those taken by the member states .
the commission ' s draft regulation seems too vague .
we are firmly in favour of setting up a single budget line for action against landmines , except for research and food aid , and i believe it would be beneficial at the same time to set up a central unit coordinating all actions in this field , as mentioned by mrs bonino .
afterwards we must invest more in research , especially research into the detection of mines placed in the ground .
lastly , it is crucial that we reinforce mine-clearance action by ensuring the effectiveness of the actions taken and by giving priority to the countries that respect the convention , just as it is also essential that we guarantee victim rehabilitation measures .
i would also like the commission to explain in greater detail what it intends to do in these fields , bearing in mind past experience and the important role that the european union has taken on in this area .
the field of action is , of course , vast and requires funding and great political will .
for this reason it is extremely positive that the commission and the european union are tackling this subject as a whole and wish to ensure that a coordinated policy is adopted in this area .
i say this because we do indeed need coordination between the efforts of europe and other international players , areas benefiting from development funds or actions directly administered by the commission .
not all countries have yet signed the international conventions , nor have they been ratified by all countries , for a wide variety of reasons .
i also believe that there must be a proper political framework in these regions so as to give such governments the political power to escape from this vicious circle , which means that , ostensibly , in trying to provide protection for themselves they ultimately harm their own population in the long term .
it was parliament which first raised , in 1996 , the issue of a horizontal budget line and of a proper legal base to provide a single platform for the wide range of actions that we undertake in this important field .
parliament was instrumental in galvanising the union into taking a proactive role at the ottawa conference in 1997 , which led to the conclusion of the convention to ban and eradicate landmines .
it is the challenge of implementing that convention to the full which led the commission to reflect on how to reinforce the contribution of the european union to the battle against landmines .
i should also like to mention the key role played by civil society , by highly motivated non-governmental organisations and , in particular , by the international campaign to ban landmines .
their efforts are essential for the successful implementation of the convention and their pressure on governments around the world has contributed tremendously to the encouraging record of ratification and accession .
over the last eight years we have contributed over eur 200 million from the community budget to the fight against landmines .
in 1999 alone the union spent more than eur 100 million of which eur 30 million was for community projects , far more than any other international player .
the european union has a clear position , set out in the 1997 joint action on extending signature and ratification of the ottawa convention to as many countries as possible .
but i cannot hide this fact : the union 's powers of persuasion in seeking to achieve this goal are obviously somewhat limited by the remaining difficulties of some member states in signing and ratifying the convention .
the communication and the draft regulation provide for a degree of conditionality in this respect , but we should not be too dogmatic .
we have to acknowledge the specific situation in certain countries .
we should not penalise people who need our help , even if their governments are not yet sufficiently committed to the implementation of the convention .
this is not community acquis in the strict legal sense of that term , but we will obviously encourage them to do away with mines in their defence , to stop manufacturing mines or trading in them , and to sign and ratify the mine ban treaty .
i should like to draw parliament 's attention to the slovenia international trust fund which , in only two years of operation , has set up a regional mine-action programme with support from the european union , the united states and a number of other countries , with projects throughout the balkans .
so i would argue against amendment no 18 .
while i understand and respect the ambition behind the proposal to concentrate all funds for mine action under the horizontal budget line , with the exception of echo and research lines , i am not convinced that this gives us the necessary flexibility to maximise the effectiveness of european union interventions .
it may be that over time the horizontal line will attract more attention and more appreciation , but we also need to maintain the link to broader national or regional programming through the geographic budget lines and regulations .
i myself would say no to proposed amendments nos 3 , 16 and 21 .
i would propose to say no to amendment no 17 .
parliament knows that there are far too many of them already and as the house knows , under our proposals for the reform of ec external assistance , we hope to move away from the heavy handed scrutiny of individual projects and instead focus our discussion with member states on overall strategies and programming .
therefore the commission cannot accept amendments nos 8 , 22 , 23 , 25 and 29 .
the adoption of this regulation constitutes a small , but in my judgment an important step along that road .
mr president , some of us have been involved for many years in trying to overcome the scourge of anti-personnel landmines .
the anti-personnel landmine campaign should not be used as an opportunity to attack western governments , particularly the united states , western military establishments , or western industry .
for the most part , western governments are not the problem but part of the solution .
we should concentrate our political attention on the real culprits : warring factions and irresponsible governments who have shown no concern about civil populations and who use anti-personnel landmines as indiscriminate weapons of terror .
secondly , the international community needs to improve the coordination of its efforts both at the global level and particularly within the afflicted countries .
multiannual funding for mine action must be concentrated on a single budget line and there must be a properly resourced unit within the commission , specifically responsible not just for the policy framework but also for the planning and implementation of mine action , including contracts .
i took two things away from that experience : you need the experts , in this case the old soldiers of the norwegian people 's aid and the local population - a crucial component - and you then need to clear the mines strategically .
this got me onto the idea of not working with the national angolan authority or via complex structures in the first instance , but of simply working with the authorities through strong ngos among the local population in a well-organised manner , as is being attempted in angola .
i believe that , as far as that is concerned , you and parliament are on the same side .
finally , i should like to thank mrs bonino .
mr president , very rarely from within the established power structures does anything new emerge .
all the institutions of the eu must work on their own initiative and in a way that the poor countries that suffer worst from the mines problem are effectively included in the programme .
however , i should like to make the following comment : the number of mines placed increases in direct proportion to the international community 's inability to find political solutions to major problems .
when , for example , a country feels insecure along its border with another country , its government will take recourse , wrongly of course , to the easy option of a minefield .
these death traps , set off by chance by the victims themselves , sometimes many years after a conflict is over , are real time bombs that hinder the social and economic recovery of whole regions and the rehabilitation of the victims themselves .
as a signatory to the appeal for a world without mines , i fervently support emma bonino 's report , because it is heading in the right direction .
moreover , the european union as a whole and the candidate countries must sign the ottawa convention and , more importantly , ratify it .
one point that ngo representatives have criticised in conversation with me is the combination of military activity with ngo work found in points 11 and 15 of the resolution .
in the course of many years ' work , the ngos have won people 's confidence and respect , and i fear that such a combination could compromise the independence of the ngos and permanently damage their relationship of trust with people in need .
i therefore very much welcome the fact that this new regulation is to implement that convention with an eu strategy for improving the coordination , coherence , transparency and control of these actions on mines .
the european union also has to live up to its claim to play a leading role in this area .
as we have already heard today , parliament has been dealing with this subject for many years .
mines are of course a great obstacle to reconstruction in these countries and to the return of refugees .
the european union is often the most important contributor to financing de-mining actions , and international actions are carried out in the relevant countries .
the problem of anti-personnel mines is too big for the regions directly affected , and also for the refugees in the areas involved , so that without international cooperation it is not possible to provide effective support here .
the international community must adopt a coherent and coordinated approach .
for the coming year , the council and the commission have agreed to reduce the total to eur 7,400,000 and parliament proposes an increase of eur 3 million compared with the year 2000 .
these figures are not much to solve a problem that affects 110 million people in 64 countries , 26,000 victims of mutilations every year and , vitally , the many children who are described in countries such as el salvador as the broken children , as these children are maimed , missing their hands , arms or legs .
i therefore ask that the importance of increasing this amount be conveyed to the council , which is not represented here , and to the commission , given that unfortunately , for each mine that is cleared , between 20 and 50 others are laid .
at the current de-mining rate it would - as was mentioned earlier - take well over 100 years to clear the planet of anti-personnel landmines .
my own country took all too long to do so , unfortunately .
i believe it is healthy to strengthen the civil obligations of any organisation which has military activities .
the first area is that of prevention .
when i think of the problems and the events in developing countries , such as those in the acp area or in central america , it is evident that things cannot continue like this .
in particular , research initiatives in this area need to be supported , especially those concerned with technology for detecting and clearing mines .
i witnessed the suffering of mine victims with my own eyes during and after the war in bosnia , in 1992 , 1995 and 1999 .
with regard to the enlargement of the eu , the candidate countries absolutely must sign the ottawa convention .
mr president , one day in december 1992 , a young shepherd in mozambique forgot the risk : he thought it had gone with the coming of peace .
but a mine is impervious to peace agreements and continues , inexorably , to do its job .
even though 139 states have now signed the ottawa convention , mines are still doing their job of destruction .
every 20 minutes somewhere in the world a mine will explode , bringing death or mutilation .
however , the progress made should not blind us to the reality , and that reality is a total of 27 people killed and another 41 mutilated every single day .
the reality is 250 million mines in the arsenals of 105 countries .
even last year , mines were used in 20 conflicts , mainly in europe .
so i welcome the work done by my fellow members , emma bonino and luisa morgantini , who have once again brought the political debate into the heart of this parliament .
whatever the outcome , we will all of us together show that we are determined to fight against what has to be called ' a cowards ' war ' .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , war is a cruel way of solving people ' s differences .
too many children have lost their lives or become crippled while playing in a danger zone .
in some countries there are more mines than there are truffles in france , and both are as hard to find .
the history we share with our neighbour has often been full of anguish .
there can be no development without safe roads , without suitable land for cultivation and without places where children can play freely .
that is why the european union joined and has come to play a leading role in the international campaign started by the united nations , as has already been mentioned by the previous speakers .
i must stress that for this to occur the effort of the european union must be more cohesive , bringing in finland and greece ; the european union must coordinate all its power to exert international pressure on those countries that have not yet accepted the ottawa convention ; and the european effort must become more effective , for example through an increase in funding , taking into account the need for safe mine clearance , the systematic destruction of existing stockpiles and the further development of advanced mine detection and clearance technologies .
this effort must also be made more effective through coordination and monitoring of the processes , giving ngos a more extensive role to play .
lastly , i hope that among the future tasks of the european common military force will be the training of technicians , particularly of people with a local interest in the eradication of landmines .
mr president , the finnish government last debated the question of anti-personnel mines on 14 june 1999 .
at the time it was decided to look into how finland might be a party to the ottawa convention in 2006 and replace anti-personnel mines with other defence methods by the end of 2010 .
the finns are involved in international cooperation with regard to mine clearance .
experts from finland and finnish clearance vehicles have taken part in clearance programmes in cambodia for two and a half years , and in mozambique and kosovo for one year .
as party to the convention , finland complies with the regulations in the amended mine protocol in the convention on conventional weapons 1996 , which came into force in december 1998 .
until a replacement military arrangement , which costs approximately half of finland ' s defence budget for one year , is in place , anti-personnel mines will remain a part of the defence arrangement .
finland has never engaged in the export of anti-personnel mines and none have been manufactured in the country since 1981 .
finland is one of the unfortunately few countries in the world that sign and ratify international agreements only when they can meet the conditions they contain to the last letter .
we are talking about millions of people killed or maimed , between 70 and 100 million mines that could explode at any time , anywhere in 60 countries .
the reports give less emphasis to the fact that the majority of those mines were manufactured outside the countries in which they are buried .
fortunately , emphasis is placed , however , on the fact that the mines constitute a fundamental obstacle to the development of these regions in addition to a lethal threat of death and distress . ( interruption by the president to request silence ) courage is needed in the face of the reality with which mrs bonino and mrs morgantini present us if we are not to fall victim to despair .
and here , as in other contexts , the actions of the european union and parliament itself give reason for confidence , for reconciliation with our own kind , as with this step forward , this commission regulation that we are trying to improve in this parliamentary procedure , reaffirming our commitment and our hope .
this perspective will guide our amendments and our votes .
to close the debate , i have received one proposal for a resolution , pursuant to article 42 ( 5 ) of the rules of procedure .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 12 noon .
i therefore propose , mr president , that we refer this report back to committee , for cleaning up , so that this historic vote is not polluted by formal inconsistencies .
but as a result of this little textual substitution we have let fall by the wayside an important principle that the european parliament has always called for .
the fact is that , whatever our opinion on either side , whether we are for or against a constitution , we all agree that our parliament should give its assent .
thanks to this substitution , the term found in the original paragraph has been left out .
you have just said to amendment no 8 ( or so i understood from the interpretation ) .
the responsibility for these actions lies above all in the insanity of the heads of state and government of many of the world 's states , and in the insanity of too many citizens who believe they can resolve their problems through war .
the idea that technology , know-how and money is spent on creating weapons that destroy people and the environment is unacceptable .
the danish social democrats have voted in favour of the report on action to be taken against anti-personnel mines .
the commission ' s communication sets out what actions the community has already participated in to combat the use of anti-personnel mines .
the commission therefore proposes that initiatives be taken to set up a horizontal budget line .
parliament supports this solution because the present structure , with many different budget lines , is not transparent and does not contribute to coherent intervention .
it is still uncertain what legal base the commission wants to propose for this initiative .
finland has produced and stored anti-personnel mines exclusively for its own defence needs .
we in this parliament discuss tyre pressures and the length of vehicles , but we have not yet succeeded in grasping how important it is for there to be a common regulation throughout the 15 member states establishing a decent minimum pension .
the van lancker report outlines a few general principles , such as the right to a pension or a minimum salary and the right to strike , something the eu council ' s text , the only one with the value of a decision , does not even mention .
for the rest , the rapporteur calls on parliament to approve the supposed social policy the commission has proposed to the council , in other words , to approve a total vacuum , for there is not a single practical measure likely to improve the situation of the workers .
this agenda , which goes back to an initiative by the french presidency , is a genuine programme of work for the next five years .
it is in keeping with the decisions of the lisbon european council , whose main conclusions relate to establishing a more competitive knowledge-based economy and achieving full employment .
the van lancker report takes account of some of the proposals made by civil society and experts at the joint conference on the subject between the european commission and the european parliament on 21 and 22 september 2000 .
it highlights the existence and reality of the european social model , but also the need to bring it up to date .
we do not have the right to disappoint our citizens .
the social agenda must therefore be very ambitious in order to confirm that social , economic and employment policies are closely interlinked and interacting , and that they must have equal status in the community policy triangle , with the aim of improving the social quality of life for all .
this is a very fair and balanced social programme and is one of the very central planks of the irish government ' s national development plan for the seven-year period post-1999 .
it offers a global and coherent vision of what a genuine social policy could look like , by linking economic , social and employment aspects .
it uses all the instruments that now exist at european union level - the social charter , the employment chapter , the legal base of article 13 - to combat all forms of discrimination , etc .
he calls for the role of the social partners concerned , and dialogue with them , to be reinforced in the framing of legislation .
however , in the event of dispute , our committee urges the executive commission to make use of its right of initiative and to propose adequate legislation .
it is important to achieve a more social europe , therefore to have more european social legislation .
furthermore , the rapporteur asks us to support the member states in their endeavours to establish a minimum wage and the right to a minimum pension so that every individual can live in dignity .
according to mrs van lancker , working hours in europe must be shortened significantly , the body of eu socio-political legislation must be increased substantially , the levels of social protection in europe must be raised massively , the power of the trade union movement increased and supranational labour market negotiations made possible , labour organisations must be given greater rights to be heard , and socio-political influence must be a priority in all sectors of the economy , in competition policy and in public procurements .
we have voted against mrs van lancker ' s report on the social policy agenda .
the commission ' s new political agenda proposes a framework in which all important actors can play a role and in which the differences between the national systems are respected .
the commission will use its right of initiative and support the member states in bringing necessary changes about .
we also believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions must be made as close as possible to those they affect .
all other issues must be dealt with at local , regional or national levels .
with the third social action programme , the commission is underscoring the recognition that economic policy , employment policy and social policy need to be more closely interlinked .
many of the demands made in the van lancker report are not acceptable .
for example , the luxembourg process which applies to employment policy is to be extended to social protection and social exclusion .
this method of determining community objectives and implementing national action programmes which are assessed annually - including by the european parliament - is so successful precisely because new qualitative and quantitative objectives are formulated whilst simultaneously strictly adhering to the principle of subsidiarity .
the rapporteur has departed from the principle of subsidiarity out of a sheer desire to adopt centralist solutions .
the eplp feels that this is already dealt with by member state legislation and is also covered in the charter of fundamental rights .
the eplp could not support the call for a legislative arrangement for worker participation in the framework of the european company statute as the industrial relations dimension is dealt with in other legislation .
finally , the eplp feels that the new directives in the field of combating discrimination under article 13 have not yet had a chance to be implemented or bed down .
therefore the eplp has voted against the proposals for new vertical directives , as further legislation would be premature .
biarritz informal european council mr president , during yesterday ' s debate the council pointed out that in biarritz the governments ' positions had begun to converge on the principle of extending qualified majority voting .
but we regard this transfer as very dangerous , for it would deprive the national parliaments of any right of inspection in regard to future wto negotiations on these areas that are vital to the life of our societies .
if that proposal were accepted , we may be sure that in the coming six months the commission would impose another version of the multilateral agreement on investment on us , the infamous mai which it was possible to reject , two years ago , only because it came under strictly intergovernmental procedures .
the second category of decisions that would cause us concern if they were to be decided by qualified majority voting relates to immigration and the international movement of persons , which , under article 67 of the ec treaty , require unanimity for at least five years after the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam but can then be decided by a majority .
the major powers , such as germany , france , the united kingdom and , to some extent , italy , are all agreed in their desire to dominate the small countries of eastern or southern europe that are applying for accession to the european union .
at the same time , each country is seeking to ensure its own supremacy and to guarantee the interests of its own industrial or financial groups .
as for the charter of fundamental rights , the only reason the meeting of heads of state and government signed it was in order to be seen to make a statement .
mr president , i abstained from voting on the resolution on the results of the informal biarritz european council for two reasons : firstly , because i had the opportunity to vote in person on paragraphs 2 and 5 separately , which allowed me to express my total opposition to both .
as paragraph 7 says , it is absolutely necessary to ensure that solutions are valid and acceptable to all member states , regardless of their size or economic weight .
however , for legal reasons we think that it is wrong to refer to it at this early stage in article 6 of the treaty on european union , because it was not possible to reach formal agreement on it within the convention , reflecting its structure , and it therefore has no legal status .
it is for these reasons alone that we have not voted for both parts of point 2 of the resolution .
i voted for this resolution because in it parliament wisely does not opt for the ' imperialist ' theses of the large , populous european countries against the self-affirmation of the others .
the resolution limits itself to a responsible vote so that a sensible balance can be found based on the history of the community .
europe was created by treaties concluded , obviously , between equal states .
moreover , over and above the legal aspect , europe is a great family of civilisations in emotional terms .
now , the idea of closer cooperation means that in crucial areas , such as money , defence and taxation , some members of the european family would have more rights and obligations than others .
some would have a say about money while others , like denmark or sweden , would have to hold their tongue .
as we saw before the existence of total , universal suffrage , there would be active " peoples " and observer " peoples " .
there would , in a sense , be " males " with the right to talk war , taxes and money and , as in pre-1945 france , " females " sitting round the table with no right to decide .
moreover , in this ' variable-geometry ' europe , the number of guests with the right to eat a la carte would vary depending on the subject under discussion in the european council of ministers and this state of affairs would create further complexity in a europe whose way of operating is already quite obscure .
moreover , even the heads of state and government have not been able to reach agreement on this issue , and it is to be carried over to the forthcoming nice summit .
and yet there are so many urgent issues to be dealt with : 1 ) the need to define an economic policy which will rescue the euro from the stagnant depths to which it has plunged and boost employment ; 2 ) the need to attract investment to the union in order to break out of the economic slump ; 3 ) the need to revise employment regulations to make the market more dynamic and more responsive ; or 4 ) the need to define a common line for a coherent diplomatic action to safeguard peace in the middle east , etc .
all of these issues are extremely important and urgent in terms of the union 's future and the function which it ought to be performing in the world .
however , as is often the case with these summits , the celebratory final declarations conceal a reality which is much more banal : the fifteen have not succeeded in establishing a common policy and the progress made with the unveiling of rights does not take away from the need to tackle the practical problems encountered by millions of families and entire categories of producers and workers .
a summit which tackles these issues would show the validity of such an institution once and for all , and would send a signal of confidence and hope to the citizens of the union .
duhamel report ( a5-0289 / 2000 ) mr president , we voted against the duhamel report on the european constitution because , following the well-established monnet recipe , seeking to make a fundamental political about-turn under cover of technical considerations , without ever clearly telling people that the main intention is to put an end to a concept of europe under which each nation primarily obeys its national constitution .
in the explanatory statement , the rapporteur says a little more about this and maintains that the treaty is already broadly supranational , largely as a result of the court of justice ' s case-law interpretations .
in our view , however , the interpretations of 15 judges , which go beyond the treaties as ratified , are clearly improper and we are still waiting for them to be submitted for the approval of the peoples of the member states .
elsewhere , the rapporteur repeats the new theory in vogue in brussels of the supposed dual legitimacy of the european union : that of the citizens represented by the european parliament and that of the states represented by the council .
that is not the theory as set out in the treaty , which recognises only one form of legitimacy , namely , and i quote , that of : " the peoples of the states brought together in the community " , according to the wording of articles 189 and 190 of the ec treaty .
this wording means that the community brings together only the states , each of which depends on the support of its people .
in no case do the meps represent the european citizens in general .
they represent their respective peoples and , by that token , cooperate in the european scrutiny of the states , but that scrutiny remains complementary , because the main power of scrutiny falls within the remit of the national parliaments .
in other words , the fact that meps represent their respective peoples in no way modifies the nature of the community .
it in no way has the effect of placing some phantom european citizen above the national citizens , even less of placing an artificial european democracy above the national democracies or even on the same footing with them .
mr president , i voted against the duhamel report because i do not believe that we are taking the right approach .
this project has been sold on the idea of a constitution for the people , which is all well and good , but if you have a single constituency you are diluting the power of the individuals in the member states .
there has been talk about referenda and the amendments that were made to this report in relation to referenda .
referenda are very important , but in the case of a single constituency , where you ignore almost 50 % in a member state who may vote against it , this is not democratic .
it is interesting to see people putting forward the idea of a referendum in this way because if you consider the changes that have taken place in the treaties over the years , the single european act , the maastricht treaty and the treaty of amsterdam , very few citizens in the individual member states have had a say and , as a result , we are not sure what the citizens in the member states want .
but i am deeply disturbed , mr president , that it is possible here in this chamber for a member of the left - i have forgotten now who it was - to call elected members of this house " polluters " of this chamber , without you calling that member to order .
we believe that the basis for cooperation in the eu should continue to be unanimity on the basic questions concerning the legal base on which the eu is founded .
only 40 per cent of people voted in the 1999 elections to the european parliament , if countries with voting duties are discounted , as well as those which had national elections at the same time as elections to the european parliament .
now , in september 2000 , the danes have voted against membership of emu , and people in a number of other member states would certainly have voted against the emu project , given the opportunity .
the portuguese socialist meps voted for the duhamel report on the constitutionalisation of the treaties essentially because they agree with the need for the european union to simplify and organise the fundamental texts that govern it , which today have become virtually unreadable on account of the complexity introduced by the successive accumulation of treaties .
to this end , it is essential that the european union should move towards a constitution that incorporates the charter of fundamental rights .
the experience of a full democracy in the european union has everything to gain from the approval of a constitution that is clear , simple , readable and a source of reference for all citizens .
that is why the portuguese socialist meps voted against the proposal of their own political group , which indicated a uniform referendum model for all the member states of the european union .
a constitution would be meaningful only if it formed the democratic framework for a genuine european federation , a united states of europe .
by resorting again to the means and objectives used for the charter of fundamental rights in order now to draft a constitution , the union is persisting in constructing a europe that is made neither by the people nor for them , be they citizens of the member states or the candidate countries .
a genuine social constitution ought to bring together , from the top down , the best acquired rights for work , women , immigrants and citizens .
nor is it built by the people , despite a few hypocritical allusions to possible future referenda , because , once again , a few institutional delegations are to decide the fate of 385 million individuals .
this own-initiative report by mr duhamel can be classed as one that were better not written , especially at this point in time .
for as things stand in the various member states , it risks being rather counterproductive at a time when the top priority is not a very broad debate on a constitution but rather the drafting of a treaty that will allow the european union to digest enlargement without endangering the community method , which is the key to the success of european integration .
the resolution is essentially like a ' pandora ' s box ' , as the text does not make it formally clear what purpose it serves or where the real need or urgency for a european constitution lies .
by its very nature a constitution may , in the form in which it is sometimes contradictorily put forward for europe , both serve as a way to ' civilise ' the union , on the basis of democracy and citizenship , and also be the instrument for a ' clarification ' of competences , a chalk circle which formally and definitively constrains the union and its bodies to very particular and specific competences .
the constitutionalisation of the treaties may either bring about the development of the union and uphold its political competences , or in contrast it may be no more than an enshrined formalisation of the principle of subsidiarity .
despite the clarity of mario soares ' s speech , in which he interpreted this report in its deep european sense , without concessions to easy solutions through highly risky referendums , for which there is no tradition in many member states , it remains simply an unsullied interpretation by a european of conviction who has made his mark on history .
while it could be argued that the existing treaties are in essence the european constitution they are difficult to read and their articles are not always in a logical order .
we think a re-organising of the treaties and their simplification would make it easier for citizens to see clearly the field of eu responsibilities - and their limits - as well as the procedures for exercising these responsibilities .
we have a constitution already in the form of the treaties , in so far as they lay down the competences of the union , its procedures and the composition and powers of its institutions .
that is true in terms of the understanding shown both of the national parliaments and their constitutional committees and of the european parliament ' s committee on constitutional affairs .
but this particular voice , and this is significant , is a parliamentary voice , the voice of an institution that attests a little more each day to the authority of the peoples within the union and its triangle of institutions .
everyone here knows that europe , its currency , its diplomacy , its security , its civilisation , its culture and its social model can only truly survive the splendid history of its peoples , but also the fruitless dissension between them , by becoming a federation of nation states with strong , coherent and respected institutions , enshrined in a european constitution , towards which mr duhamel has paved the way .
until the treaty of amsterdam in 1997 , europe was an intergovernmental super-syndicate .
if , tomorrow , the union wishes to embrace europe in its entirety , the geographical europe , extending even beyond the next wave of enlargement , it will need institutions that are fully mature in political and democratic terms .
gil-robles report ( a5-0288 / 2000 ) mr president , ever since i have been a member of the european parliament , i have had sleepless nights worrying about whether i will succeed in contributing to a european law on pensions before my term expires .
we agree with the general principles laid down by the report , to the effect that closer cooperation should be developed within the european union ' s institutional frameworks and that the political and legal conditions established by the treaty of amsterdam for introducing closer cooperation are aimed at limiting the risk of a breach of the ties of solidarity between the member states and the risk of a disintegration in the common legal area .
we recognise that , where the pace and scope of european integration are concerned , a certain degree of differentiation within the process may be useful in so far as the common objectives are preserved and the differentiation is perceived as a tool used on an exceptional basis , in a transitional period and with due respect for the fact that it is entirely up to those countries which are not a part of the enhanced cooperation process to decide whether - and , in certain cases , when - they wish to accede to those areas covered by closer cooperation .
if we cannot vote in favour of the report , it is because we cannot support the proposed changes to the political and legal conditions required for closer cooperation .
removing the conditions which state that closer cooperation must remain within the framework of the treaty and removing the right of veto and the opportunity for bringing the issue up in the european council would constitute a breach of the quite fundamental principles according to which european cooperation in the eu operates .
the group for a europe of democracies and diversities is voting against gil-robles gil-delgado ' s report on enhanced cooperation .
the report proposes abolishing the right of veto , which would in reality mean that countries which are very keen on further integration could forge ahead without having broad democratic support .
the ulterior motive is to be able to continue the development towards ' ever closer union ' without being hampered by the enlargement to which the eu countries have committed themselves .
in this way , mr gil-robles proposes discontinuing the common foreign and security policy .
we consider , however , that future development will increase the need for far more varied and flexible cooperation in europe .
countries with a tradition of holding referendums before surrendering sovereignty may in future be in danger of finding themselves in a situation in which a proposal that is rejected nationally is adopted at eu level .
those countries which are not so keen on integration are left with a poor alternative , namely that of copying the legislation without having any real say in it .
in fact , although this report tends to introduce a little more flexibility into the highly inflexible system laid down by title vii of the treaty of amsterdam , which is welcome , the final result is still far from adequate .
the gil-robles report even proposes bringing the common foreign and security policy and the common defence policy within the purview of reinforced cooperation , thus centralising those policies even more than they are at present ( paragraph 4 ) .
parliament wished earlier to prevent the emergence of differentiated forms of cooperation in the treaty of amsterdam , but was finally forced to give way and accept ' reinforced cooperation ' .
indeed , some member states that wanted to deepen their cooperation and go beyond the integration provided for in the treaties developed various instruments , such as the social chapter , the schengen agreements , economic and monetary union , etc .
with the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam , the use of these instruments was formalised by the introduction of the concept of ' closer cooperation ' into the treaty on european union ( title vii ) and the treaty establishing the european community ( article 11 ) .
the objective of this form of cooperation is to allow a limited number of member states that are able and willing to move forward to deepen european integration , provided they respect the european union ' s single institutional framework .
so we must avoid slowing down the general pace and therefore allow some member states to move forward by developing the mechanism of reinforced cooperation .
we must point out that reinforced cooperation , as provided for in the treaty of amsterdam , must in particular concern an area that does not come within the community ' s exclusive purview , must be aimed at furthering the objectives of the union , must respect the principles of the treaties and must be used only as a last resort while concerning a majority of member states .
reinforced cooperation could have an important role to play in the framework of an enlarged europe .
however , as these provisions now stand , this mechanism cannot function correctly .
that is why the reform of this instrument has been entered on the agenda of the igc with a view to making it easier to use .
the report before us tends to consolidate parliament ' s position in this respect ( resolution of 13 april 2000 ) .
in particular , that means abolishing the right of veto and making it possible to resort to cooperation when it concerns at least one third of member states and also extending reinforced cooperation to the common foreign and security policy .
the rapporteur rightly stresses that the commission ' s power of initiative , the full participation of the european parliament and legal control by the court of justice must be the rule for all forms of reinforced cooperation .
in its simplest terms , what this means is that larger member states can integrate more closely and over a shorter time-frame than smaller member states of the eu .
i do not think it will be a necessarily healthy move forward for the european union if eu leaders were to accept and implement the principle of enhanced cooperation to its fullest .
i believe that this would fly in the face of both the founding objectives and spirit of the treaty of rome and of all subsequent treaties thereafter .
one should recall that the single european act in 1987 laid the groundwork for the implementation of an internal market .
large scale eu structural funds were put aside to help objective 1 countries within the european union so as to guarantee that these countries could become more competitive over time .
eu leaders stated that they did not want an internal market of only a few countries .
the operating structures of the internal market have been a success ever since the early 1990s .
this principle of equality between poorer and richer nations was transcended into policies that were implemented to put in place a new european single currency regime .
there is a need for institutional equality in the context of the negotiations on the forthcoming intergovernmental conference .
the influence of smaller member states cannot be dissipated by a set of larger countries within the eu that seek to implement , as i have said , the principle of enhanced cooperation .
if , in a future eu with 25 to 30 member states , the situation is to be avoided of a europe a la carte in which the unity of the member states is in danger of disintegrating , we nonetheless believe that at least half of all member states must participate in flexible integration .
we are also opposed to creating duplicate defence structures within the eu and consequently to flexible integration within the eu ' s foreign and security policy .
the eu must acquire a credible foreign policy .
still less do we wish to see a limited number of member states go further within the framework of flexible integration in this area .
it is therefore important to retain the transatlantic link , even if there might , of course , be better coordination and a better distribution of labour .
it must preserve the single institutional framework within which all meps and all commissioners participate fully in the exercise of the functions of each institution .
what could be more natural , therefore , than cooperation between neighbouring states , such as the cooperation which existed before the founding of the european union in the form of the benelux counties and the cooperation between the nordic states ?
not one single eu rule should stand in the way of far-reaching cooperation , subject this to conditions or require that others join in .
they are not leader groups but reflect a diversity which , with 30 member states , will only increase .
clearly the triggering of reinforced cooperation must be made easier in an enlarged union .
the group of the greens / european free alliance is disappointed , however , disappointed that the report did not seize the opportunity to bring about environmentally , socially and culturally sustainable development in these regions and that the amendments adopted during the vote are not such as to improve the text in that respect .
we regret that the positions parliament has adopted in the vote are the european union ' s positions concerning these regions .
the pensioners ' party and the pensioners who support it are very familiar with these islands for they are a key tourist destination .
this was the case in the gutierrez diaz report , the fernandez martin report , which promoted the inclusion of the concept in the treaty , and now in the sudre report , which restates european policy for the outermost regions .
the european parliament is reasserting itself by adopting measures in various fields - from agriculture to fisheries , from the environment to transport and energy via the information society - with the necessary budgetary support .
the europe of brussels , with its mania for levelling out and standardising , has acted unfairly and even stupidly towards our compatriots who live according to european values thousands of kilometres away from paris , madrid or lisbon .
the technocrats , the european judges , wanted to abolish the ' dock dues ' , which provide resources for our municipalities in the french overseas departments and , in particular , protect our traditional workforce .
from this distance , brussels has put our martinique rums , our rice and our tropical fruits at risk .
the european commission has kow-towed to the banana multinationals .
the eu member states deal with their outermost regions in very different ways .
spain and portugal consider their islands in the atlantic as remote regions .
on the one hand , we want to support disadvantaged areas in and outside of europe so that they achieve the same standard of living and level of amenities that is now current in the eu .
a case can be made for the spanish and portuguese islands , but not really for the more remote regions .
in any case , we have , however , subordinated our repugnance for this topic ' s colonial backdrop to the interests of those living in the regions concerned .
the more progress that is made in scientific research , the more new questions are raised .
with all the measures proposed in the white paper , we will still have to flesh out a number of points in order to guarantee food safety and in particular restore consumer confidence .
henceforth we must ban all animal meal .
that is why the green group fully supported his work and voted for the report .
mr john bowis ' report will ensure that the food we eat is always healthy , natural and safe .
let me say how glad i am that our parliament is finally delivering its opinion on such an important subject , while regretting that it has been 10 months since the european commission presented its white paper on 12 january this year .
it was essential for us to give an opinion on an issue that is so important to our fellow citizens .
our vote has thus clarified the composition of the future european agency , while also setting out our specific requirements regarding its funding and its independence .
this first step must not close our eyes to the serious work that still needs to be done on risk management , developing and improving the rapid alert system , but also on ensuring traceability and public information .
now that is absolutely intolerable .
the french must remember that despite the commission 's splendid declarations about its resolve " to assure the highest standards of food safety " in the union , it is actually the commission , and none other , that is giving precedence to the demands of the free movement of products over public health requirements ; it is the commission , and none other , that has , for example , just dragged france before the court of justice for maintaining its ban on british beef .
it is unacceptable that we should abandon any part of our national right of decision and right of protection , in relation to food safety questions .
however , the creation of that agency is imperceptibly guiding us in that very direction .
first of all , we must remember that the power to provide advice plays a capital part .
in the mad cow affair , the reason the french government continued the ban was because it was backed up by the independent opinion of the french food safety agency ( afssa ) , even though the supposedly scientific european committee saw nothing wrong with allowing british meat to be imported into france .
that is not at all the direction taken by the white paper , which wants to make the european agency into a " scientific point of reference for the whole union " ( page 5 ) .
secondly , the european agency must be completely independent .
the director of the agency should certainly not be appointed by the commission , contrary to what the european parliament is proposing ( paragraph 21 of the resolution ) .
moreover , the agency must be able to criticise the commission itself .
the commission 's white paper has the grace to admit that , but on closer perusal we find that the regulatory power it is so keen to protect is that of ...
that does not prevent the commission and parliament from christening the agency a " european authority , " a title totally contrary to the philosophy that supposedly inspires it .
the european parliament even adds , in paragraph 6 of its resolution , the phrase " while subjecting the powers to be transferred to detailed scrutiny , " just when we thought that no powers were to be transferred .
we therefore believe that the white paper and parliament 's report are traps , which is why we are opposed to them .
there is without doubt a need for an agency that takes a european view of the situation , but it must be strictly consultative and totally independent .
a serious problem for society and food safety has been caused by the serious crises and scandals involving food products that have arisen in several countries in the european union because of the use of methods aimed at making the maximum profit from food-producing activities at any cost , ignoring the interests of consumers .
therefore all the measures proposed to change the situation and protect consumers deserve our support , particularly the setting-up of a european food safety agency to analyse the risks scientifically , working in close collaboration with existing national agencies in this field and the main european consumers ' organisations .
the issue has now become particularly acute , not just because of the advances in our methods of scientific investigation but mainly because the consequences of a certain type of farming aimed at boosting productivity at all costs and inspired by a free-trade philosophy have come fully to light .
the question is what kind of mechanism will protect our citizens most effectively .
if we take a look at recent events , we find that with regard to bse , for example , and taking only the case of france , it is the existence of a competent and independent national food safety agency that allowed the french authorities to rapidly take the decisions needed to protect the health of its people .
in the name of respect for subsidiarity and effectiveness , we must give pride of place to measures taken in a national context , where independent agencies can rapidly provide genuinely scientific opinions undiluted by other considerations and the political authorities can take the necessary risk-management decisions for the benefit of the people who have given them a mandate to protect their safety .
under these circumstances , a european agency can play a useful role if it really is independent , especially in relation to the commission services and the various pressure groups at work there , and if its role is to complement and support the national agencies ( from which it should emanate ) , in particular by acting as a forum for the exchange of expertise .
that is not at all what the bowis report is proposing ; it gives the impression that basically it regards food safety as another pretext for fuelling the well-known process of strengthening the commission 's powers at the expense of the national authorities and public safety .
the report seems to regard it as a matter of course that the commission should appoint the director of the authority : no doubt that is the best way of guaranteeing its independence !
as for paragraph 6 of the report , it quite classically announces the transfers of powers that are bound to follow .
we voted against amendment no 7 because it would mean , even now , going beyond the field of risk assessment and encompassing risk management .
i believe there are a number of reasons why hong kong voters have opted for apathy instead of exercising their newly established right to vote .
twenty-four of the 60 seats are directly elected on the basis of universal suffrage , where three million hong kong citizens have the right to vote .
the remaining 36 seats are returned by a mere 179 000 electors drawn from hong kong 's powerful business and professional interests as well as pro-beijing groups .
the real power rests with the chief executive , tung chee-hwa and his government which , in effect , is appointed by beijing .
the legislature 's lack of real power has made voters unenthusiastic about participating in elections which , in their view , are not truly democratic .
although the basic law - which is hong kong 's mini-constitution - lays down specific criteria for the holding of the 2004 election , it does nonetheless provide for the possible introduction of universal suffrage for the election of all 60 seats for the 2008 election .
the executive has no party base in the legislature , which means that these two institutions are effectively completely separate from one another .
the rule of law is the cornerstone of the " one country , two systems " policy .
three recent , controversial legal cases have far-reaching implications for the integrity of the rule of law and ultimately for the autonomy of hong kong itself .
two of these resulted in the execution of individuals for crimes they had committed in hong kong , where capital punishment is banned .
the third case related to a judgment handed down by hong kong 's court of final appeal on a controversial immigration law concerning residency rights in hong kong for children of chinese parents who themselves had resident status in hong kong .
the hong kong government was displeased with the liberal judgment and invited the chinese authorities to reinterpret the basic law .
as regards my comments on the dominance of the li ka-shing family - which was the subject of much media interest in hong kong today - in some sectors of hong kong 's economy , i should like to point out that the reason i have raised this matter is that it has been raised with me by leading figures in hong kong and indeed was the subject of major media debate during a recent visit there by myself .
i am very unhappy that this has been blocked by some governments .
visa-free access should be given to hong kong 's passport-holders without any preconditions .
since then , and despite the asian financial crisis , trade relations between the european union and hong kong have gone from strength to strength .
as far as relations between hong kong and its international trading partners are concerned , more specifically the world trade organisation , the eu and hong kong share a number of common goals and the two work very closely together , which is useful in the light of the forthcoming trade round .
in my recommendation , i referred to the important role which hong kong could play when china joined the world trade organisation .
hong kong could show china how an open , fully integrated market can play a leading role in the region and can in this way achieve economic development and sustained growth .
for these reasons , we must stress the importance of closer cooperation between the european union and hong kong in financial terms and in terms of trade and direct foreign investments .
we should bear in mind that in the framework of the eu-china agreement with regard to the possible accession of china to the world trade organisation , these bilateral agreements will need to be reviewed .
as far as the inquiry is concerned , we must call for both hong kong and the european union to play a valuable role in the many projects which are in the pipeline .
we must , i think , all agree that if , with measures such as those quoted in the cushnahan report , we touch on the principle of the rule of law which should inform the legal and constitutional framework of hong kong , then we question the wider principle of " one country , two systems " on which developments in hong kong have been based .
because it is through freedom of the press that observations and proposals are made which aim to keep things within the democratic framework on which we are all agreed .
i should like to thank him for once again being so adaptable in writing that report and being prepared to involve his colleagues so that there is no need for us to go through a lengthy amendment procedure because we reached consensus when the report was being drawn up .
the recent sacking or movement of one of the directors of radio television hong kong appears to have been as a result of pressure from the mainland .
we have already heard of the unfair nature of the election system .
i would hope that we can continue with these annual reports and these parliament reports so that we can monitor very closely the situation in hong kong .
mr cushnahan rightly points to the question of the three legal cases which have caused concern .
he rightly points to the lack of progress on the introduction of universal suffrage for the elections of the chief executive , to discrimination against companies with trading links with taiwan and to the decline in confidence of the political system .
these are all indeed serious challenges and if we must be grateful that things have gone as well as they have , we must nonetheless be concerned that greater progress has not been made .
i believe that the record of the european union falls far behind that of the united states of america in this area .
i am aware that our member states have concerns about standing up against the chinese on issues of human rights because they fear trade sanctions in retaliation .
but if there is one area where western europe could stand four-square behind the european banner , it is surely in this area .
the asem summit last week managed to agree a statement which included as a goal of asia-europe cooperation the promotion of human rights .
we are the first to express our anxiety with regard to the hong kong government ' s decision to apply for an interpretation of the 1990 basic law from the standing committee of the national people ' s congress .
the veto right which china could obtain as a result of this with regard to court rulings in hong kong puts a question mark over the legal autonomy of the special administrative region .
the elections for the legislative council a month ago were once again proof of the democratic deficit .
the fact that an electoral college of 800 members subsequently decided on the occupation of six seats and the fact that only 175 000 businesspeople were entitled to elect the other half of parliament turned the elections into a complete farce .
finally , we would call for permanent vigilance with regard to the freedom of press , the need for laws with regard to fair competition and the possibility of an open trade relationship with hong kong and taiwan .
the honourable gentleman , mr watson , referred to the fact that we should not feel inhibited in what we say about hong kong or about other issues by our trading relationship with china .
i can report first hand to the house that while , as several honourable gentlemen have pointed out , some problems exist , hong kong nevertheless remains a free society , undoubtedly one of the freest societies in asia as both the commission and parliament 's annual reports make clear .
the secret of hong kong 's great success has always been its fusion of hong kong-chinese entrepreneurial culture with the attributes of a free and open society founded on the rule of law .
it does not surprise me entirely , they are many of them former refugees or the sons and daughters of refugees and they are used to handling and overcoming adversity .
both reports address these directly .
there have been other issues too , including the recent controversy involving academic freedom and the even more recent one involving the public order ordinance , where the provisional legislature replaced the more liberal arrangement that my administration bequeathed with something rather less liberal .
it was an issue that came up several times in my visit last week .
i hope too that we will be able to reinforce a flourishing economic relationship with hong kong , with strengthened cooperation in other areas , such as education and the environment .
we will aim to promote the use of the european communities ' existing instruments in hong kong , such as participation in the fifth framework programme on research , as the honourable gentleman 's report recommends .
there are a number of further recommendations in the report which my officials will be studying closely .
my administration took much more vigorous measures to deal with it .
the present administration is taking particularly vigorous measures to deal with it , under the new director of the customs service whom i happen to know rather well because he was my private secretary for a number of years .
everybody has been impressed by the leadership that he has shown in tackling what is undoubtedly a serious problem for industry .
in closing , we strongly endorse the view in the parliament that this monitoring - your monitoring and our monitoring - is valuable and that it should continue .
we do not seek to interfere in hong kong 's affairs , but the international community and the european union in particular have a considerable stake in hong kong and its continuing rights and freedoms are embodied in a treaty lodged at the united nations .
we will continue to maintain our interest in hong kong .
it is a community which inspired admiration the world over for its achievements and which , much to the satisfaction of its last governor , continues to do so .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m .
in my report , i made a modest attempt to formulate a number of proposals in order to help end the spiral of violence and underdevelopment in which many of our acp partners have ended up .
these proposals also aim to avoid european funds being used to finance the war machine .
i would even argue in favour of fixing a ceiling for military expenditure in the acp countries above which assistance or debt relief is no longer provided .
i believe it would be particularly useful , in the framework of article 96 of the cotonou convention , to compile a list of all possible infringements of this convention .
situations such as those in ethiopia , where the european commission and a number of member states froze aid , while other member states started up new programmes , must be avoided at all costs .
acp states involved in armed conflict should allow the world bank and the imf full access to their accounts .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation , i would like to add a few considerations to the valid points already made by rapporteur van hecke .
although in september 1998 , it was agreed not to provide any budgetary aid to countries at war , in march 2000 the commission provided rwanda with eur 110 million , while this country is occupying considerable parts of the democratic republic of congo , in defiance of the peace agreements .
i have the impression that that is clearly the case because , in practice , countries which are even involved in one and the same armed conflict are being treated differently .
this sometimes directly affects the power relations between countries involved in one and the same conflict .
not only is the illegal arms trade flourishing , but the controlled arms trade is also more interested in " fair competition " among arms traders than in the peace we are promoting .
mr president , commissioner , the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has set itself the objective of eradicating poverty in these regions of africa , the caribbean and the pacific , which must be rescued from their wretchedly poor situation .
in his very comprehensive report , our rapporteur johan van hecke rightly condemns the prevailing anarchy , the result of armed conflicts that cause endless bloodshed in some of these regions , as one of the causes of this poverty .
he has rightly included the establishment of a peace force in his list of remedies to this situation , without this interfering in the internal affairs of all these countries , which are jealous of their independence .
given my experience in this field , allow me to go into this point a little further .
if we want to make a really useful contribution to keeping or restoring peace , we need a deeper knowledge of the history , culture and even language of the country in which we are to intervene .
in that respect , our rapporteur also deserves credit for proposing a very exhaustive list of the approaches and measures that can and must be adopted .
mr president , the new cooperation agreement signed in cotonou represents an ideal opportunity to correct the deficiencies noted in previous measures and to clarify concepts and standards for action in specific situations in which we cooperate with the acp countries , for example , in the situation that gave rise to the commission communication which concerns us here and to the reports by mr van hecke and mrs maes , that is , what should happen when an associate country is involved in armed conflict .
along the lines of what was said by the rapporteurs , we think the european union will have to revise its programmes of aid to countries at war , amongst other reasons to prevent the funds allocated from being diverted to military activities .
also as a matter of principle , it should reconsider support to countries or regimes responsible for armed invasions of neighbouring countries or that spend a disproportionate amount of their resources on arms , if not on operations to repress the rights of the individual or minorities within their own population .
we must bear in mind article 11 of the new treaty which states the european commitment to policies of building peace and preventing and resolving armed conflict .
the dialogue between the opposing parties and the dialogue of the european union with these same parties must be the key mechanism of these actions .
i think parliament would benefit from greater transparency , coherence , information and control over these policies .
finally , we must understand that the reduction or freezing of our development aid for a specific country at war would often need to be accompanied by additional efforts in humanitarian aid to the people of the country , who are the main victims of such conflicts .
here again , the intervention of trustworthy ngos is essential , enabling such programmes to be carried out with guarantees of success and effectiveness .
one in five africans live in a country which is embroiled in serious conflict and , to make matters worse , the conflicts are increasing , both in number and in intensity .
the report by mr van hecke is very close to my heart .
we need to be much stricter vis-a-vis irresponsible acp regimes ; criteria for suspending aid must be clear , and sanctions need to be tailored to each country individually .
we must target the rulers and not the population , however difficult this is , and our parliament must be directly involved in the decision to suspend aid .
the cotonou convention is right in laying the foundation for further development , participation in world trade and political dialogue , but acp countries which slip into violence destroy this cooperation and tear the treaty to shreds .
mr president , i warmly welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur on it .
i strongly believe that we have a responsibility to use the tools available to us to promote good governance , democracy and the rule of law in our international relations .
that is because history demonstrates that responsibility for the debt lies with the lenders as well as the borrowers .
many countries are repaying their debts several times over .
some countries still spend more on debt repayment than on health and education combined , and yet the people suffering from this diversion of resources are certainly not those who had any benefit from the original loans that were given .
there is a valid argument that says , what is the point of cancelling debt if undemocratic governments simply misuse the funds for their own ends ?
that remains a possibility .
but in the context of debt relief it also requires justice and a recognition that in many cases , the original debt has already been repaid many times over .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur for the pertinence of his comments and for his many proposals .
out of the 34 poorest countries in the world , 20 are involved in a conflict .
this situation is giving rise to instability in entire regions .
in connection with one of the poorest and most unfortunate areas in the world , i should like to give two examples of the pernicious role played by unconditional international aid .
i am referring to one country which has been constantly at war since the 1960s and to another now enjoying a shaky peace , which , perversely , may be threatened by international aid : they are angola and mozambique , respectively .
in the case of mozambique , where there is a shaky peace that was only achieved with great difficulty , the ruling party ' s use of international aid to favour certain provinces to the detriment of others according to their election results may in itself be a major factor in destroying the peace that was achieved through such efforts a number of years ago , thus reopening the civil conflict in mozambique .
this is an issue that should be of fundamental concern to the european union and the donor countries : whether in certain countries like mozambique international aid is being used as an instrument of power to legitimise a government at the edges of democracy , and is thus helping to destroy a very shaky peace .
these are issues raised by the report that warrant considerable reflection on our part .
mr president , i also welcome both the commission communication and the report we have here today .
one key message in all this is the need for consistency .
consistency must be our primary objective .
secondly , conflict prevention must be a priority of the european union .
far too often , we are prepared to support one against another group to the long-term detriment of peace in a particular region .
i would like to see , as i outlined in my report last month , action taken against arms brokers throughout the european union .
in many countries , there are no controls over the activities of arms brokers .
it is no good having rules on manufacturing within the eu if eu companies are able to license production outside as a way of getting round the controls .
that requires much tougher action than we have been prepared to indulge in up to now .
mr president , the report highlights what is self-evident , that is , that armed conflicts in africa have seen a dramatic increase in number and intensity , and that they result in immense human suffering .
however , this compassionate language is also a way of covering up the direct or indirect but nonetheless overwhelming responsibility of the major european powers themselves in the majority of these conflicts , from rwanda to sierra leone .
today , in the ivory coast , even though , faced with the reaction of the population of abidjan against the recently attempted coup d ' etat , both lionel jospin and jacques chirac have taken a stand against the putsch , how is it possible not to condemn the policy of french imperialism ?
the links between general guei and the french administration are notorious , as are his links with a certain number of major french industrial conglomerates which control entire economic sectors in the ivory coast .
mr president , the rapporteur should be congratulated on the excellent work that was done so intelligently .
the profile that crises have assumed in the last few decades has decidedly changed .
we must also use all the means available to us to demand that governments should always commit to ensuring the safe passage of those taking humanitarian aid to various regions .
the general affairs council concluded in may that the relevant bodies of the council should continue their reflection upon the issue of development aid to countries involved in armed conflicts , on the basis of the commission communication .
i regret that the member states have not taken up the commission 's communication more actively .
events in the democratic republic of congo and its neighbours in angola and burundi , the horn of africa and now , again , in west africa , particularly in sierra leone , have shown that we cannot escape facing these difficult questions .
the commission is considering its response and in particular the use of article 96 of the cotonou agreement wherever this is appropriate .
a comprehensive framework would help us to respond on a case-by-case basis to each conflict .
if the council is willing to follow up the communication , for instance by formulating council conclusions , the commission will assist in ensuring they reflect the many advances since mid-1999 in the eu 's policy on crisis management and in the cfsp , as well as developments in the international community 's response to conflicts .
but it is clear that there are no easy solutions to these problems , as the contributions in the debate here this afternoon clearly demonstrate .
the bottom line will , in any case , be defined by the real political will of member states to stick to a common line .
the commission cannot promise parliament miracles in this field .
we are prepared to broaden deliberations to other countries involved in armed conflicts .
violent conflict is not a phenomenon limited to acp countries .
the european union must be prepared to react to violence in an efficient and coherent manner in other regions of the globe too .
the communication is an invitation to engage in a debate about eu relations with countries for which the traditional form of development cooperation has become questionable or obsolete .
we would prefer to devote all our efforts to assisting the acp countries in the difficult task of overcoming poverty and of integrating into a rapidly changing global economy .
however , for a considerable number of our acp partners , the major challenge is the restoration of peace , or the containment of regional destabilisation .
peace is an indispensable precondition to development , and countries that remain entangled in violent conflict exclude themselves from the potential benefits of the new cooperation relationship the eu is offering them .
they contaminate the prospect of foreign investment , not only in these countries , but also in their regions .
in less unstable countries , our efforts to fight poverty and provide debt relief are contributing to conflict prevention in the longer term .
the commission has not been idle since submitting the communication .
it has already taken numerous initiatives aimed at strengthening its capacities for effectively addressing the problem of violent conflicts in acp countries .
we are committed to stepping up our efforts for effectively preventing violence and for resolving crises peacefully .
we are committed to making even more effective and targeted use of these instruments .
in this context we are aiming in particular to introduce conflict prevention objectives into the programming of economic and development assistance programmes .
the problem is , however , that the rigid character of these instruments is in itself a limitation to what we can do and how we can use them .
all this looks very different from the toolbox concept , which is what i think of when we talk about the numerous instruments that are available .
the toolbox concept provides a good image of the ideal situation and a satisfactory way of making use of the diversity of instruments .
there is no doubt whatsoever that the hipc initiative , funded by the eu but not yet funded by the us , is making the biggest contribution to conflict prevention in the world right now .
i should say a few words on the situation in the ivory coast , in view of what has been said in this debate .
unfortunately there has been a rapid deterioration in the situation since the elections on sunday .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m .
speaking for myself , i voted consistently against it when i was a member of another parliament .
one of the first decisions that i took when i was governor of hong kong , with the support of organisations like amnesty and human rights watch , was to take the death penalty off the statute book of hong kong and i am delighted that it remains off the statute book .
i am pleased that all central and eastern european countries which are candidates for membership of the union have abolished the death penalty .
the european union is opposed to the death penalty in all circumstances and has agreed to campaign for its universal abolition .
in my case , my opposition to the death penalty is also rooted in my belief in the sanctity of human life .
the european union has been for some time now actively seeking a global moratorium .
the union has defined a set of guidelines for identifying circumstances in which the european union can take specific , targeted action .
these guidelines specify that the european union will encourage states to accede to the second optional protocol of the convention on civil and political rights and comparable regional mechanisms aimed at the abolition of the death penalty .
the european union shares the deep concern of all those opposed to the death penalty , that it is impossible to reduce to zero the risk of applying the penalty in error .
in countries which maintain the death penalty , the european union aims at the progressive restriction of its scope and respect for the strict conditions set out in several international human rights instruments under which capital punishment may be used , as well as at the establishment of a moratorium on executions , so as to eliminate completely the death penalty .
during the presidencies of finland and portugal , the european union raised the issue of the death penalty with a host of countries including the authorities in antigua and barbuda , burundi , the bahamas , china , guyana , india , iran , kyrgyzstan , the palestinian authority , pakistan , the philippines , tajikistan , thailand , trinidad and tobago , turkey , the united arab emirates , the united states , uzbekistan , the yemen and zimbabwe .
the european union is especially concerned about the imposition of the death penalty on young people below 18 years of age at the time of the commission of the crime .
i said at the outset that the european union had decided to raise the issue of the death penalty in multilateral fora .
this has not always been simple .
in particular under budget line b7-704 we are pursuing a number of initiatives throughout the world designed to mobilise public opinion against the death penalty .
in 1999 a joint programme was established between the commission and the council of europe to raise public awareness about various themes related to the abolition of the death penalty in russia , turkey , albania and ukraine .
the programme , worth over eur 670 000 over two years , will provide information to parliamentarians , to legal experts and to the general public on the penal policy arguments against capital punishment .
mr president , commissioner , as you have said so well on many occasions , parliament , and with it the group of the european people 's party , has declared itself against the death penalty and in favour of a universal moratorium on capital punishment , the sole objective of which is to achieve the definitive abolition of the death penalty throughout the world .
it could not be otherwise , given that this practice , which is directly connected with respect for human life , runs contrary to the defence of human rights , the first of which , the basis and foundation for all the others , is the right to life , which is promoted by the european union .
there comes a time , however , when words are not enough and a far more aggressive attitude must be adopted in defence of what , for the christian democrats , constitutes the very core of our philosophy and our political action : the transcendental value of the person and the right to life from the moment of conception until their natural death ; two principles which are incompatible with the application of the death penalty .
therefore , we are not only advocating its abolition , but also proposing the possibility of using budget lines intended for human rights to campaign in favour of a moratorium on the death penalty , and that non-governmental organisations , both international and local , and religious authorities may also participate in the implementation of these budget lines .
nonetheless , it is still applied in 90 states and we cannot turn a blind eye to the 1,625 known executions carried out in 1998 , 80 % of which took place in just four countries , including , in third place , the united states of america with 68 executions .
therefore , together with respect for human rights , the abolition of the death penalty must be a key element , commissioner , in relations between the european union and third countries .
if the death penalty - as the community of san egidio told us - dehumanises our world by giving primacy to reprisals and revenge , then placing all measures , both economic and political , within our reach in order to banish a practice that is contrary to the principles and values that constitute our raison d 'etre should be a priority objective for the european union .
mr president , once again parliament has declared itself to be in favour of human dignity and against the death penalty .
but on this occasion it has done so following the approval by the convention of the definitive text of the charter on fundamental rights of the european union .
this charter actually devotes its first chapter to human dignity , stating that it is inviolable and will be respected and protected .
parliament has spoken in favour of the charter being incorporated into the treaties and these rights of european citizens being applied to citizens of third countries .
however , it is more relevant than ever for us to ask ourselves whether it is time to demand that the commission and the council incorporate the abolition of the death penalty as a clause respecting human rights into negotiations with all third countries , not only those waiting in line to become part of the european union . 1999 was another bad year .
according to amnesty international , almost 2000 people were executed and in 63 countries 4000 others were condemned to death .
i draw attention to the united states , not because i am anti-american , which i am not , but because we are talking about a democracy with which we are on good terms , which watches over the interests of peace and democracy in the world .
i would like us all to ask ourselves whether we can do more .
i believe that if we do not turn this fight into a political commitment , with a capital p , as a fundamental part of european foreign policy - and that is why i am pleased that commissioner patten is here - we will be doing less than we could to prevent this barbarism .
every execution is an error that democracy , the defence of human rights and human dignity cannot accept .
mr president , i welcomed commissioner patten 's speech , in particular his words about his own personal experience , and the absurdity of a punishment which is becoming increasingly less effective in the world as a deterrent in the minds of a growing number of citizens .
when our international institutions , when the aja tribunal is faced with the sentence inflicted on the criminal tadic - who is guilty of heinous crimes - and we compare these appalling crimes with any of the incidents in any countries , including democratic countries , as a result of which thousands of people are now waiting on death row , we may be able to appreciate the fact that what had been a purely european characteristic , that is the rejection of capital punishment , may - in political time , not historical time - spread until it becomes the clearly predominant political , institutional and humanitarian modus operandi throughout the world .
this , mr president , is why it is necessary for the commission - and i would ask commissioner patten to give an incisive response - to make good use of these amendments to the european union 's budget that were tabled by our group of the european liberal democrat and reform party in respect of the 2000 budget .
i therefore propose , commissioner , that you consider the possibility of europe establishing a european day of protest against the death penalty : this would make a substantial contribution to generating a universal consciousness from that cradle of civilisation which europe is and wishes to remain .
of course , a moratorium would not have been able to prevent the 4 000 arbitrary executions which have taken place in recent years in iraq or the thousands of executions which have taken place in china , but in other countries , especially the united states , the only great democracy still to exercise the death penalty with stubborn pride , this long labouring to mobilise public opinion to call for a moratorium is having some , very slight , effect .
mr bush , in whose state 144 executions have been carried out , succeeded in removing the issue of the death penalty from the electoral campaign and discreetly and hypocritically postponed the executions in his state until after the elections .
the death penalty irrevocablyviolates the right to life and is inevitably cruel , inhumane and humiliating .
in the year 2000 alone , 70 people have been executed in the usa .
there is a long list of countries in which the death penalty is carried out or in which death sentences are imposed , such as china , iran and iraq .
although no death penalties have been carried out in turkey since 1984 , over 69 people have been sentenced to death .
the turkish parliament has the final word on carrying out this sentence and has 49 cases to deal with .
whether it is abu-jamal in the usa , ocalan in turkey or even the execution of abdul achmin sabiin iraq - we should condemn all of this .
i regard the death sentence as a barbaric ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , in the same way as the treaty of amsterdam and the european charter of fundamental rights , parliament has repeatedly declared itself to be opposed to the death penalty which sadly , as has been pointed out , still exists in many countries of the world : countries with antidemocratic traditions such as communist china and extremely liberal countries such as the united states .
however , we know that this is not at all the case ; we know that the death penalty is an abhorrent practice , a form of state-legalised crime .
this is precisely why we must promote a europe-wide campaign for a moratorium on the death penalty , a large-scale human rights campaign which involves everybody , from those with political or institutional roles to the citizens themselves , especially the younger citizens , precisely in order to create genuine civil awareness of the matter and to put political pressure on the countries in which the death penalty is still part of the law .
i refer , in particular , to china , which , as the commissioner too mentioned , issues a death sentence every day of the week and in general shows very little respect for human rights but which , regrettably , is also a highly attractive trading partner for all the european countries and one they cannot do without .
i would like to end by saying that these campaigns against the death penalty would be much more efficient and much more widespread if we were to succeed , as an institution , in conveying to our citizens the idea that we are simultaneously working , with equal determination and efficiency to build a safe europe where it will be possible to eradicate terrible criminal scourges , such as drug trafficking , the exploitation of human beings and child abuse , in the very near future .
having said that , commissioner , i feel that , precisely on this type of subject , working in conjunction with organisations which operate in society or with non-governmental organisations is a key factor , for these organisations usually have greater room for manoeuvre , and are able to be bolder and uphold positions which are , so to speak , less influenced by other considerations or interests , in themselves legitimate but all too often liable to lead governments and institutions to compromise and assume less forthright positions .
this is precisely why part of the resolution calls upon the commission to be more explicit in its report and in providing transparent information on the use of the year 2000 budget lines relating to this matter and to democratisation in general .
it has , in fact , happened in the past and still happens that the very organisations which have put most work into this matter have , so to speak , been excluded from working with the commission on a project , even though they have been doing so for many years because , it appears , there is no more funding and we do not know exactly where it has gone .
that is why , commissioner , i feel that transparency and the provision of information would benefit a joint project which , i feel sure , is of interest to us all .
at the moment - as it has been said - the images of the american electoral campaign and the final debate between the two main candidates are fresh in our minds ; a debate in which the candidate for the democrats stated publicly that the only thing he had in common with his opponent was being in favour of the death penalty .
i think it is important for the european union to head the campaign to abolish the death penalty , given that it is a campaign in favour of human dignity and the most basic of fundamental rights .
commissioner , i believe - and you expressed this very well - that when developing the european union ' s external affairs policy we must consider , with regard to the third countries , that there is already a declaration annexed to the treaty of amsterdam which clearly reflects that to be eligible for membership of the european union , candidate states must have abolished the death penalty .
but , i insist , in relations with third countries we must be extremely clear and firmly promote relations with those countries that share our views on this matter .
mr president , i believe that the institutions must live up to the values of our civilisation and that our citizens must see themselves reflected in the ethical mirror that , as a result of our work , we should be for them .
mr president , commissioner , if every petition which we discussed and approved in this house were worth a life then i would be satisfied .
we must avoid turning our reasoning and indignant declarations into a wake because , while we are expressing our indignation , executions are still being carried out .
the second point - which you raised , commissioner , and which , i am happy to say , was taken up by many of the members - is that the commission must exercise great care in allocating its financial resources in order to support campaigns which are able to alter the public perception of the death penalty .
you mentioned the year 2000 budget lines aimed at financing campaigns for the abolition of the death penalty .
so i urge the commission to focus and extend the use of the assistance funds to the two main nations where state murder is practised with no restraint and with great relish : the people 's republic of china and the united states of america .
yes , we know the issue has been raised ritually and periodically with the governments of both countries , but we have to do much more .
for instance , as regards the united states , some of this money should be invested in sensibilisation campaigns in europe , certainly not in order to boycott a sovereign state like texas , but to re-route european tourism and european industrial investment to those 12 states that do not indulge in such a barbaric practice .
mr president , i am personally opposed to the death penalty for a variety of reasons , and despite this , i would like to make two fundamental observations which are at odds with everything that has been said so far in this chamber .
in the first case , we are talking about the highest penalty for extremely dangerous criminals who , moreover , have been able to avail themselves of very many defence mechanisms in the democratic court procedures .
if i were convinced that in europe , there is the will to look after the fate of victims and the safety of victims , i , along with you , would condemn the death penalty here today without any reservation .
mr president , commissioner , this debate , which is a repeat of other , previous debates would , on the surface , appear superfluous and outdated .
despite certain very tragic events which have taken place in europe , despite the fact that there have been fascist and communist cultures that have trampled underfoot rights to freedoms and the rights of individuals , i feel it noteworthy that agreement has been reached time and time again in this parliament in discussing the death penalty and firmly condemning it in any form whatsoever .
we italians are of the tradition of cesare beccaria , as has already been said , but beccaria was a man who belonged to europe , who rejected mediaeval , obscurantist law in its entirety in favour of modern law , in favour of a legal system which does not make us wolves to our fellow men but , by means of peaceful civil coexistence , guarantees freedoms .
capital punishment is always incompatible with peace in civil coexistence and we must find the courage to declare that accepting a moratorium - although that would be great step forward - is not enough to make a country genuinely democratic : to achieve true democracy it must abolish the death penalty .
mr president , in 1999 , eighty-five percent of all executions took place in only five countries : china , iran , saudi arabia , the democratic republic of congo and the united states .
it violates the right to life , is irrevocable and can involve innocent people .
we therefore give our warm support to commissioner patten ' s policy .
mr president , it is high time we adopted a universal moratorium on the death penalty , this ' veritable administrative murder ' , as albert camus called it .
a total of 77 states still see the death penalty as the appropriate response to certain crimes .
in 1999 , 1813 people were executed in 31 countries and there are at least 3 857 people condemned to death in 63 countries .
in the united states , opinion is still very much in favour of capital punishment , but its hold has been shaken .
and i am in favour of this proposal being advanced at a european level .
on 10 december , hundreds of thousands of petitions will be handed in to the united nations .
i have spoken on radio and television programmes .
i have been booed for what i have said at public meetings on capital punishment .
i just ask parliament to reflect on the fact that this debate included speeches all of which were on the same side - a side with which i passionately agree .
that suggests to me that we need not only to think about public information campaigns in other countries , but occasionally to think about the need for continuing public information campaigns in the european union as well because i am not sure that everybody outside these extraordinary halls , outside this parliament , thinks exactly as we do .
and we must remember that it is one of the tasks of political leadership to carry public opinion with you and not just to assume that everybody agrees with us .
we want to have a good clean text denouncing capital punishment and asserting the universal validity of human rights including the sanctity of life .
we want to continue to build on what has been achieved in the commission on human rights in order to build up the majority that we would like to see in the united nations itself .
it is an issue that we raise again and again in our human rights dialogue .
i cannot say hand on heart , or even hand off heart , that it is getting us very far , but we continue to raise the issue .
we called upon the united states to establish a moratorium on the use of the death penalty , with a view to completely eliminating capital punishment .
they may agree about capital punishment .
the number of executions , the number of people in prison , the number of executions in the united states is extraordinarily high for a country whose democracy was celebrated in such appropriately eloquent terms by alexis de tocqueville a century ago .
i am not sure what he would have thought about the amount of capital punishment in the united states .
i hope we use our intellectual as well as financial resources to put the case again and again for the sanctity of human life , against the intolerable practice of capital punishment .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken on thursday .
but i told president trajkovski that much as i would have liked to have attended , i needed to be here in this parliament today , demonstrating democratic accountability in action .
i have had several debates and it has been a pleasure to take part in them .
like many honourable members , i had long hoped for the chance to report on such a visit and on our efforts to build ties with a democratic belgrade .
many of us have been surprised and inspired by the triumphant return of democracy to serbia in recent weeks .
in the summer i reported to this house about a serbia that was an outcast among european nations , about the repression of the brave , independent media , about our support for the opposition .
today , although it is early days , the opposition are in government and the independent media suddenly find that they are no longer embattled and alone but in the vanguard of a new effort to create a truly open and pluralistic media for the whole country .
from the moment the people of serbia made their democratic will clear and from the moment they insisted it should be respected , the european union has been as good as its word .
barely four days after the democratic transition on 5 october , european union foreign ministers announced the lifting of sanctions and the immediate repeal of the oil embargo and the flight ban .
they expressed a wish for member states to re-establish or normalise diplomatic relations with yugoslavia at the earliest opportunity .
they underlined the willingness of the european union to contribute to the institutional and economic rebuilding of the fry and they extended an invitation to president kostunica to attend the informal european council in biarritz and to participate in the regional summit that the presidency is organising and which is to be hosted by the croatian government in zagreb on 24 november .
the day after the foreign ministers ' meeting , foreign minister vedrine representing the presidency , flew to belgrade to inform president kostunica in person of the measures decided by the european union to honour the promises it had made to the people of serbia during the election campaign .
the same day , just five days after 5 october , a team of commission officials arrived in belgrade to discuss with president kostunica 's advisers an urgent , short-term assistance package .
later that week , the european commission proposed to the european council at biarritz that the budgetary authority , including this parliament , should approve an emergency package of assistance to serbia worth eur 200 million , 180 million of it mobilised from the emergency reserve .
in belgrade i met president kostunica and held a separate meeting with him and some 80 mayors from democratic municipalities .
i visited the headquarters of the students ' resistance movement , and met the brave independent journalist , marislav filipovic , jailed by milosevic for telling the truth and recently freed under president kostunica .
i met with professor labus and his colleagues of the g17 group of economists and with colleagues from the world bank to discuss both short-term help and the longer but vital task of long-term reconstruction , especially institution building and building the rule of law .
i also visited the studio of the independent television and radio station , b92 , which was harassed by milosevic and supported amongst others by the european commission and whose journalists , like other independent journalists , will deserve prominent and flattering mention when the history of the last few weeks in serbia comes to be written .
i also had important meetings with representatives of the democratic opposition of serbia and with ngos and representatives of civil society , including the impressive head of the civic democratic alliance , goran svilanovic .
i briefed european union heads of mission before my departure to montenegro where i had meetings yesterday evening with president djukanovic and prime minister vujanovic .
let me just say a word about my meeting with president kostunica and the emergency assistance package that we are finalising for serbia .
i was impressed by his commitment to democracy and made very much aware of the huge challenge he faces in consolidating democracy in serbia , especially in the run-up to the serbian elections .
i applauded the approach he had taken at biarritz and during his recent visit to sarajevo , in particular his willingness to establish diplomatic relations with bosnia and herzegovina without delay .
it seems to me that president kostunica has made an impressive start in formidably difficult circumstances that few of us predicted a few months ago .
we are going to launch a new programme called towns for democracy to provide basic municipal improvements and services and we are going to reinforce our support for the media and civil society in this critical phase .
we are going to do everything we can to alleviate the problems but it will still be tough because milosevic has left serbia 's new leaders with a spectacular shambles .
we will have to work with others and , despite our efforts , serbia faces a difficult period .
but we are working flat out to get our help on the ground as rapidly as possible , which means from the second half of november .
the people of serbia know that , from now on , they do not have to face the future alone but with the staunch support of the european union and the entire family of european democracies at their side .
let me make a further very important point : none of the assistance that i have described is at the expense of our efforts elsewhere in the region .
i and , i believe , ministers in the general affairs council are acutely aware of the european union 's obligations to croatia , to bosnia-herzegovina , to albania , to fyrom and to the people of kosovo and to montenegro .
we are not going to relax our efforts elsewhere in the region .
that was one reason why i visited podgorica yesterday , my third visit since march and the first time i was able to fly in with a visa from belgrade .
i discussed our considerable assistance programme with president djukanovic .
i listened to the views of the prime minister and the president on recent developments and on relations between montenegro and serbia .
there is still much to do .
democracy , although i believe it to be irreversible , is still young and fragile in serbia .
the european union is ready for that task and stands ready to do all in its power to deliver on the hopes of so many whose lives have been blighted by the horrors the milosevic regime inflicted inside and outside the borders of serbia .
mr president , let me start by thanking the commissioner for his swift visit to belgrade and for reporting back to us so promptly .
my second question relates to kosovo .
we know what can be done and we are in a position to make the funding available tomorrow , which i am very pleased about .
i am also sure that under your auspices , commissioner , emergency aid really will be provided swiftly .
i have two questions .
mr president , commissioner , the dramatic apology of the yugoslavian president , mr kostunica , also referred to by my fellow member , his admission of guilt and the guilt of the serbian people - something which many nations have never done - is a gesture which does him credit and which will make an important contribution to improving the climate in the region .
it does not mean that we abandon or surrender our principles or our values .
i would love to be able to clear the danube in a couple of weeks time but it is not possible .
one or two people have suggested that perhaps things could be done a little more quickly and perhaps we should take that as encouragement to speed up and deliver as rapidly as possible .
while that is going on we will be , i hope , assisting yugoslavia in dealing with the problems about its membership of the un , its membership of the world bank and its problems with the ifis to which it owes considerable arrears .
i hope we will be able to deal with those problems and have completed the needs assessment by the middle of next year .
that is going to be a considerable task but since there are so many capable and able serbs helping in the economies of australia , canada , germany and other places around the world , all of us can look forward to the day when serbs are able to do a great deal more to make their own economy in serbia prosperous and successful .
on sanctions , we have lifted - as the house will know - the sanctions on oil and air flights .
speaking for myself , although it will be a decision that the general affairs council will have to make very speedily , i am always reluctant to be more catholic than the pope or - to use a more appropriate expression - more orthodox than the patriarch : if we are told by the authorities in belgrade that they want to get rid of the financial sanctions it would be slightly surprising if we were to say " steady on , we think we can design some smart sanctions which will meet needs which you say you are quite content for us to forget about . "
i went to see the ngos working in humanitarian and free media fields , financed by the european union , and the picture was not a particularly happy one .
i want to ask the commissioner if he will confirm that he will thank the staff of the commission both in brussels , and in particular in the belgrade office under michael graham , the head of the delegation , who throughout this time have gone through enormous change and have actually wrought a major difference in the process of moving towards democracy .
i would like the commissioner to confirm that he will thank not only those people but also the ngos working in the field .
more particularly i hope he will accept the thanks of this house , because he has demonstrated that democratic activism not only works in hong kong but also in serbia .
i would also like to thank the commissioner for his efforts and i hope i can without being pretentious assure him that the relatively low attendance in this house does not , i am sure , reflect the level of interest in this subject .
i understand this , given that there is a new leader , president kostunica , and that it is necessary to be involved in the process with him so that things can go ahead properly .
there needs to be a risk control plan not only for this region , but also for the town of pristina and for other towns in kosovo .
i would therefore like to draw your attention to this and to tell you that there is a social problem .
the organisations in the media field have done magnificently .
we were superbly well-served by the swedish-helsinki committee , for example , but there has been excellent cooperation and despite all the difficulties put in our way by milosevic 's regime , we were able to get a considerable amount of help through to the democrats and the democratic forces in serbia .
that i hope played a small part in bringing about change .
the honourable lady was entirely right to say that it is sometimes suspected that encouraging regional cooperation is a sort of brussels stalling on the route towards europe .
the european union is the best example in the world of countries dealing with ancient animosities , countries becoming both more politically stable and more prosperous by knocking down frontiers , by knocking down boundaries and in certain areas pooling their sovereignty and doing things together that they do better together .
for example , we are saying to them , we will give you very generous trade access to our markets but you have to give generous trade access to your neighbours ' markets as well .
president kostunica said at the meeting with mayors , that in the new democratic era yugoslavia was going to have to do quite a bit about gender mainstreaming because they were only i think three women in the room at that meeting .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
even though the substance of the proposals deserves a few comments and a few criticisms , as you will see , the truth is that this initiative has sent out two incontrovertible political signals .
this green paper has opened the debate on the architecture of a future emissions trading system within the european union .
first , this system will allow industries , companies and member states to gain practical experience and prepare themselves economically for the 2008 launch of the emissions trading system at an international level .
let me highlight six points from my considerations .
one : the green paper should have set quantified targets for greenhouse gas reduction to be attained by the emissions trading system ; in other words , the green paper should have said what percentage of greenhouse gas reduction would be allocated to emissions trading .
four : in the debate on the scope of the system , the commission should not have set direct emissions trading between companies as the only possible option .
five : i believe it is crucial to involve the countries applying for membership of the european union in the emissions trading system as soon as possible .
to this end i invite the commission to present a plan in a forthcoming communication specifying how those countries can be brought into the emissions trading system .
it is a disappointment because it results in the role of policies and measures , in other words , the role of domestic and community political action , being sidelined in favour of market mechanisms .
it is also a disappointment because this communication results in an unbalanced treatment of the various economic sectors ; in particular it was hoped that those sectors that were not included in the emissions trading system might see the approval of an ambitious approach with well-defined commitments in the other communication , the one on policies and measures .
note that , regardless of the result of the american elections , it will be bill clinton and al gore who will be negotiating the kyoto protocol in the hague .
if al gore wins , there is nothing to prevent it continuing to be very difficult to find the two-thirds majority in the senate needed to ratify the protocol .
i therefore think that the european union should not give up its negotiating agenda .
the green paper constitutes the first step towards establishing an instrument which is in conformity with the market , which prescribes a ceiling for emission levels and which , in time , will offer very efficient and effective opportunities to reduce these emission levels .
i hope that this misunderstanding can be put right with a number of amendments .
in the final analysis , we should fulfil our collective responsibility to manage god ' s creation in a responsible manner and without any hesitation .
the subject of emissions trading entered the debate on climate as part of the so-called flexible mechanisms .
for this reason , the european union has decided to propose that we should adopt a system of trade-offs in greenhouse gas emissions within the union as from 2005 , and this is therefore different from what the kyoto protocol itself makes possible , which is that the international emissions trading is to start as from 2008 .
but within the european union this system can be tried out and it can be developed .
the key point about emissions trading is that in future not only electricity and gas will have a price , but also co2 .
that sounds very simple , but it means a total revolution in the energy business , in the energy sector .
i hope that following successful completion of the negotiations in the hague , the european union will ratify the kyoto protocol .
that means that we will be legally committing ourselves .
the next thing required is for the commission to bring forward a directive sharing the burden among the 15 member states .
in other words we will then have a common energy policy via environment policy , which would be a very circuitous route .
we could then start emissions trading within the european union in 2005 .
climate change is evident all over the world and we in europe are not so badly off as those in other regions - i have in mind the west coast of america and also bangladesh .
we now need to implement the kyoto objectives and the next climate change summit in the hague must go further than our efforts so far .
since it is also clear that co2 bears most responsibility for climate change and traffic is increasing further , what we need above all are concrete proposals for limiting urban traffic , and for appropriate taxation of transit traffic or for suitable road pricing arrangements .
we in europe are in the vanguard of environmental policy and if we want to maintain our credibility then we must go further than is proposed in the white paper today .
national policies , whatever they are , will have to go through national parliaments , but we will have a hand in agreeing whatever comes forward as a european union policy as a consequence of the hague .
we would like to be able to send a bigger delegation .
we would also like our representatives to be briefed before the conference .
finally , given that we know the causes of climate change , or are fairly clear that we know the causes of climate change , future generations will hardly forgive us for being so slow to deal with it .
let me first of all thank the rapporteur , mr moreira da silva , who has produced two excellent reports on our current climate change strategy .
let me also express my appreciation for the continued importance the european parliament attaches to the global problem of climate change .
as you know , the european union strongly supports the entry into force of the kyoto protocol by 2002 at the latest , which will mean rio plus ten years .
the european union intends to ratify the protocol as soon as cop6 is successfully concluded with decisions that safeguard the environmental integrity and credibility of the protocol .
industrialised countries emit most greenhouse gases and have a responsibility to show leadership in tackling climate change .
the outcome at cop6 should ensure this by balancing the use of kyoto mechanisms such as emissions trading with domestic action - supplementarity - and by addressing the need to demonstrate progress on policies for reducing emissions by 2005 .
these are necessary to make the mechanisms work effectively because markets can only work efficiently in a solid institutional framework .
sinks should not be included in the cdm - the clean development mechanism - because this is a mechanism that should be used to bring social and economic development to countries .
at cop6 we should develop these issues and agree that the clean development mechanism should be based on safe , environmentally sound technologies which will help these countries develop in a less polluting way .
a final decision concerning the number of meps to attend cop6 is expected by 31 october ; the commission has proposed that the european parliament be represented by eight members .
i can also give a commitment to organise an appropriate briefing before cop6 starts , maybe between 7 and 11 november , if possible - we will try to arrange that in the best possible way .
let me also comment on the question about ratification without the united states .
the european union is very committed to the ratification and entry into force of the protocol by 2002 at the latest .
i am pleased to note that the commission is supported by parliament and the council in its efforts to build up an effective european climate change programme .
the opinion of the european parliament 's committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy on this programme stresses that policies and measures should be the priority of eu climate change strategy .
it is important that this strategy is endorsed by all stakeholders and that is why the commission has embarked on this multi-stakeholder process in the framework of the climate change programme .
the environment council recently adopted conclusions on policies and measures to limit emissions of greenhouse gases , confirming the choices made in the framework of the european climate change programme .
at the same time they indicate some specific priorities in the transport , energy efficiency and industry sectors that should be developed , taking into account the environmental impact and cost-effectiveness of these measures .
these suggestions will be carefully considered in the ongoing work in the european climate change programme .
as you know , the programme is up and running and the six existing working groups - flexible mechanisms , energy supply , energy consumption , transport , industry and research have been operational since last june .
the first impression is certainly positive after the first four months .
a progress report on this programme will be the basis for my oral presentation at the special climate council on 7 november .
despite the very short time available , the programme is already suggesting a first list of likely measures in all the relevant sectors .
therefore , this climate change programme is a unique opportunity to bring together all the elements of an ambitious eu climate change strategy and the commission will follow-up by finalising the most promising proposals .
on the green paper on emissions trading , i would like to thank members for having considered it so substantively .
the commission is eager to hear the views of stakeholders and of course those of the european parliament .
differences of opinion on the details should be expected when approaching a new instrument in environment policy and i warmly welcome the supportive and constructive attitude that parliament has taken .
i hope that the green paper has gone some way towards overcoming this mistrust .
emissions trading within the european union would be another policy measure that would coexist with other policy measures that are now in place or are being developed by the commission in the context of the climate change programme .
i do not think that emissions trading favours nuclear power more than any of the other climate change measures that are being considered within the european climate change programme .
the case for getting started by 2005 remains as strong as ever so that the community can benefit from learning and by doing .
moreover , it is my intention - and i have already had talks on this last october - to involve the central and eastern european countries in any future emissions trading regime .
finally , the responses to the green paper that have been received so far - about 50 in number - reflect the high level of interest in this instrument .
opinions on what to do next vary and the commission will decide how to move forward within the next few months , after the submissions have been analysed in more detail and when we know the results of cop6 .
it has always been and remains the commission 's wish that whatever the community does on emissions trading should be fully compatible with the kyoto protocol 's emissions trading system when it comes into effect .
even the climate experts tell us that the very meteorology of our regions is changing .
and so , now that , sadly , our dead have been buried , the journalists have left the devastated areas and the river , in this case the po - i live by the po - is again taking its normal course , it is time , as we say in italy , to put up our umbrellas , not to appear prophets of doom but to evaluate once again the requirements and the remedies .
we need to be making political and regional planning decisions that protect the earth even when the sun is shining .
the resolution on the conference in the hague is that which is closest to us in time .
it has been characterised by considerable unity , which is a good foundation to have now that the conference in the hague is beginning .
i think the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy has given a clear message that we do not consider three representatives from the european parliament at the conference in the hague to be sufficient .
when regular meetings and regular updates during the conference in the hague are talked about , it is also important to emphasise that these must be constructive .
the most important additions include the clear indication , exactly as found in the cop 6 document , that emissions trading itself must not represent more than 50 per cent of the measures to reduce emissions .
it is also important that measurable objectives be required for each country and for each sector .
only half of the amendment published in the swedish document has been adopted .
it would have been still more welcome if it had been clearer and more practical , but we hope it will be clearer following the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy .
mr president , commissioner , i am very pleased that the debate on climatic change in europe and throughout the world has given us the opportunity to recall the cyclone that struck a large part of europe .
terror struck valle d ' aosta and the other regions and countries affected , which this terrible ordeal has placed in a veritable state of emergency , facing a long , costly list of damages .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , our climate is already changing .
the kyoto protocol is too restricted .
after 2020 , developing countries too are supposed to fight greenhouse gases , but on an equal footing .
each world citizen has the same right to emit co2 .
american citizens should not be entitled to emit two hundred times more co2 than people in east africa .
the swift ratification of the kyoto protocol is the right way forward .
europe must make every effort to achieve this 8 % objective .
a responsible policy on the part of the most developed countries must be based upon those countries ' being able to reduce their own emissions .
when it comes to mr moreira da silva ' s reports , we agree with the content of most of the paragraphs , but we are more sceptical about emissions trading .
mr president , in recent years we have witnessed an exponential increase in disasters on our territory : natural disasters which , in many cases , have caused havoc over entire regions and countries , natural disasters which are not entirely due to climate change - itself caused by interference from man - but which are also the result of changes made by man to the land , brought about by administrations , governments and citizens who have failed to make better provision for the environment , preserve it and guarantee its future .
this year , italy suffered first the tragedy in calabria and then the current colossal tragedy , which has claimed over 25 deaths and left over 45 thousand homeless in the north .
the italian government , which has set aside ridiculously small sums given the scale of the disaster - of which , moreover , warning was given - in a key production area for italy and europe , is treating these hard-working people inappropriately , irresponsibly and inefficiently , as it did the people affected by the earthquakes in umbria and southern italy .
climate protection is not a marginal subject for environment freaks , it is one of the greatest challenges of our time .
the dreadful storms and floods which have ravaged europe and the rest of the world in recent months should be a wake-up call for us all .
nearly all the scientific experts are telling us that these storms and floods will dramatically increase if we do not achieve a marked reduction in greenhouse gas emissions .
however , i believe that we must use every possible means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions .
and that is the reason why on behalf of the group of the european people 's party i have tabled an amendment calling for a european climate tax which covers all greenhouse gases and is revenue-neutral .
the group of the european people 's party also considers that nuclear energy will be indispensable at least for the next few decades if we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions .
abandoning nuclear energy , as is planned in some member states , who are actually going ahead with that , gives exactly the wrong signal , because nuclear power stations emit considerably less greenhouse gases than fossil fuels .
what i have observed since then is that parliament has made certain concessions here , but always against the tactical background that we want the country with the highest co2 emissions to come on board as regards kyoto .
mr president , i am glad to hear that the commissioner is pressing for eight members of this house to attend cop6 , but i want to emphasise that we want to play a constructive role in eu strategy making .
that really spells out the differences between the approach of the united states representatives and those of this parliament .
so the prospects for cop6 look poor , but the prospects of our meeting our goals even with kyoto do not look that good either .
if we are serious about the environment , these must be resisted .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , some people are attempting to get the nuclear debate put back on the agenda .
i believe that european environment ministers have so far adopted the very wise approach of excluding it from the list of flexible mechanisms .
nuclear power is more expensive than other options , such as energy efficiency , for example , and every dollar that is invested in nuclear power is denied to other investments that are much more profitable .
we can help the chinese , the indians , indonesia and the pakistanis much more by giving them the means to buy refrigerators that do not consume much energy , because there will be 800 million refrigerators over the next ten years .
mr president , the rapporteur correctly maintains that climate change is one of the most serious environmental problems we are facing today .
although three years have already passed since the kyoto conference and the commitment to reduce greenhouse gases by 8 % in comparison with 1990 levels , and as the european environment agency has reminded us , if very specific political measures are not taken , this reduction will not take place ; on the contrary , greenhouse gases will increase by 6 % .
i also share the rapporteur 's concern for specific policies and measures to take priority over emissions trading , which should be ancillary to them .
in any case , we believe that the priority for the european union must be specific measures and policies and the definition of a european programme on climate change , which must also have specific objectives and aims , and it worries us that this is not the philosophy that will be advocated at the forthcoming hague conference .
in conclusion , mr president , i , like other members , will recall the floods in spain and italy , which seem to us , like other so-called natural disasters , to be an expression of climate change .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , first of all , i would like to add my congratulations to those already offered to the rapporteur for these two superb reports .
with regard to the first report , i will simply make mention of the floods and the victims that there were in the east of spain , attributed to climate change , as the previous speakers have already talked about both these things .
with regard to the second report , i consider that emissions trading should be approached as an instrument with which to facilitate the fulfilment of obligations under the kyoto convention .
various attitudes have been adopted in the face of this flexible mechanism : expectant , reactive or active .
i think that from both the economic and environmental point of view we must adopt an active stance .
this is also an opportunity to encourage research and development in the field of new technologies for controlling pollution , contrary to the opinion of those who believe that this mechanism is a way of perpetuating the interests of the large polluting corporations .
if this tool is correctly applied , pollution will become more and more expensive and the market will ensure that products obtained through the least clean methods become obsolete .
it is essential that this mechanism is developed transparently as an integral part of the raft of measures that the member states is to adopt within the context of the european climate change strategy .
to this end , all the member states must take great pains to communicate with the public so that it is clear from the outset which objectives are being pursued with this mechanism and what the benefits are , that these are always partial and complementary to other types of measure .
the exact relationship between co2 emissions and global warming is not yet entirely clear , but that should not prevent us from taking drastic measures now .
according to experts , we need to reduce current co2 emission levels by 60 % in order to halt climate change .
sound cooperation between rich and poor countries is needed to achieve climate objectives .
mr president , the climate changes caused by our consumer habits have begun .
we know that the most important stage will take place at the hague in november .
we will see whether or not the parties who committed themselves at kyoto will exercise their responsibilities and meet the demands of the global issues that await us , which put us all in the same boat and spare no one .
our mandate is clear and our demands are forceful .
ratifying the kyoto protocol is crucial , as is the implementation of domestic measures that will make a real contribution to the fight against greenhouse gas emissions .
the european union must refuse to integrate nuclear power , even if there is strong pressure in favour of mechanisms for clean development .
the european union does not have the right to shirk its commitments .
according to an estimate made by the european environment agency , greenhouse gas emissions in the eu are expected to increase by 6 % during the period 1990 - 2010 .
the committee also considers it necessary to increase financial support for public transport and it criticised the commission for the fact that policy and action in the eu strategy on a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions are of secondary importance .
this is such a simple fact that i almost feel ashamed to mention it , but i believe this is the main source of confusion in the way we think .
i would emphasise , in particular , points 6 , 7 and 8 of the joint resolution : europe must call upon the member states to update their laws on the environment , the abuse of planning permission , reforestation , the revitalisation of mountain areas and , in general , on the promotion of farming methods which are intended to protect and safeguard the land as well as yield increasing quantities of produce .
clearly , an action of this scale cannot be effectively developed purely at national level , primarily because of the scale of the resources needed but also because of the very nature of the natural phenomena in question which , like those relating to climate change and damage arising from co2 emissions , are in no way contained by borders .
in asking you to support our resolution , ladies and gentlemen , we are calling not merely for an urgent intervention to contribute to repairing the damage but for a longer-term policy which will make europe an increasingly safer and more enjoyable place to live for its citizens .
mr president , the commission and others have predicted that most member states will not achieve their targets for limiting greenhouse gas emissions in line with the commitments under the kyoto protocol , so it is essential that effective measures are implemented now .
one estimate says that 10,000 people have been killed in the past two years because of the effects of climate change , the majority of them in the developing countries .
we can , and must , adopt effective and innovative solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time protect our society and our jobs .
several economists have analysed the effects of this on a europe-wide level , and have come to similar conclusions that there is , or could be , a beneficial effect on employment .
i hope parliament 's demands which are set out in the reports before us are acted upon and that governments approach the hague conference in a positive way so we can see the kyoto protocol ratified in the near future .
this is as much a matter of cap reform as it is of environmental policy and it is only by drawing together the two that sensible progress can be made .
we must therefore remedy this situation .
i am therefore one of the signatories to a motion for a resolution suggesting not only the rapid application of the measures contained in the kyoto protocol to combat climate change , but also other types of preventative measures , for example continuing and intensifying efforts to prevent the effects of rain when creating infrastructures , and finally , aid to all the victims , given that they are not responsible for the short or long-term damage caused by human greed and speculation .
however , it should be remembered that the environmentalists are almost alone in fighting to stop construction on floodplains , to bring about the cleaning-up of water channels , to stop the concreting of river banks or uncontrolled excavations , and to call for measures on reforestation and the protection of mountains , the only operations which can reduce the amount of rain water and avoid landslides .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , europe can certainly contribute , but it is the , sometimes unpopular , decisions taken in the areas affected which will be a true measure of the commitment to attempting to ensure that such catastrophic events are not repeated .
firstly i would like to thank mr moreira da silva for his clear-sighted and pertinent analyses , and for the excellent proposals he has put forward in both his reports .
as a result , this mechanism must be looked upon not as a frontline tool but , on the contrary , as an instrument complementary to other measures aimed at reducing greenhouses gases .
we are fully aware that this mechanism does not encourage companies to become less polluting and to change their ways , and that , if nothing else is done , especially in the area of transport , we will certainly not achieve the objectives set by the kyoto protocol .
on this point , it seems to me that there is a case for backing one of the amendments tabled by my colleagues in the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left , who deem it necessary to stay the implementation of a system of entitlement to pollute until the council and the member states have drawn up and ratified an operational plan of measures to reduce greenhouse gases , encompassing all the sectors involved , especially transport and agriculture .
finally , where are our environmental objectives in this sort of international stock market of pollution rights and what can be expected of a system which simply opens up a huge market of rights on behalf of countries which , like russia , may today have room for manoeuvre , not by virtue of bringing their factories up to the required standards , but quite simply by virtue of a dramatic reduction in their industrial output .
to conclude , i think that we must press for the implementation of a framework agreement of cooperation between russia and the european union so as to put in place ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , although the priority in the union ' s policy on climate must be a sustainable environmental policy , in taking decisions we must also pay attention to the importance of the international competitiveness of industry and the undisturbed workings of the internal market .
although a given sector might be amongst the world ' s best in terms of environmental efficiency in one country , and i can say that is true of many sectors of industry in my country , finland , for example , it might have to agree to a more stringent quota for emissions than its less efficient competitor in another country .
it is essential to promote measures that can be implemented in practice and do not jeopardise the competitiveness of enterprises .
along with france , my own country , finland , is at present the only eu country where the building of additional nuclear power stations is being considered .
for that reason we should not adopt a position in this report either in favour of individual forms of electricity production or specifically in opposition to them : instead , all the various forms of energy production must be at our disposal while we formulate national climate strategies .
voluntary agreements could in particular be a good mechanism for use in the enlargement process .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in illustrating the resolution proposed by italian meps , i feel that it must be said that , for the second time in five years , we have experienced a natural disaster in the same region of our country , italy .
this has , on the one hand , allowed us to gain a deeper understanding of the issue , an understanding forced upon us by tragic events but , on the other hand , it imposes upon us certain burdens which are certainly not ours alone : they are not the burdens of one or more affected regions , they are burdens not only of the country but of the international community as well , so that solidarity is displayed and acknowledged at different levels .
and it has been displayed , at least initially , at moral , political , economic and legislative levels .
i put down two amendments , one calling for further research into the other greenhouse gases such as methane , soot , cfcs , etc .
i should like to touch on two controversial topics in the report .
one is the issue of an eu-wide carbon tax , which i reject both because it encroaches on prerogatives on taxation and because it would drive jobs offshore to non-eu jurisdictions , in my view , and be damaging to our economies .
the natural catastrophes which have struck the european union and its citizens have had tragic consequences .
they have confronted us with severe physical damage and in some cases loss of human life , recently in italy and now in spain .
the commission is acutely aware of the weight of these catastrophes .
this is why the commission , in the area of community action for civil protection in the period 2000-2004 , is developing initiatives in close collaboration with member states to prevent catastrophes and educate the public .
on 27 september the commission therefore adopted a proposal based on a council decision which instituted a community mechanism to coordinate measures for civil protection during emergencies .
the key actions included in this decision are : identification of and improved coordination among the key actors to intervene in the case of emergencies ; special training programmes to promote better cooperation and complementarity between the actors concerned ; establishment of efficient communication systems to allow for better and more rapid communications .
the proposal also permits faster and more effective steps to be taken on behalf of victims .
in the area of research i would like to point out that there are currently several projects under way related to flooding as well as the concerted action to reduce the risks associated with climate .
the possibility of structural fund involvement in cases of natural disaster must fit within the requirements of the funds and the following conditions must be met : the area in question must be eligible for funding under the territorial objectives , namely objective 1 or objective 2 .
eligible reconstruction projects may not represent the majority of expenditure in the programme concerned .
the actions must have a transitional nature , one or two years maximum , and they may not continue throughout the programming period .
in order to call upon the structural funds for this type of action it must be shown that the programme has room to manoeuvre internally .
it goes without saying that the member states concerned are in charge and that it is up to them to envisage what type of measure they would like to see eventually financed by the structural funds when the conditions for intervention are fulfilled .
with regard to cooperation on spatial planning solutions to flooding problems , the commission knows that the interreg iii guidelines make specific reference to the possibility of formulating joint strategies for risk management in areas prone to natural disasters and drawing up and implementing integrated strategies and actions for the prevention of flooding in transnational river catchment areas .
the commission would also expect that flood prevention actions would form part of a transnational strategy which covers areas where flooding is a particular risk under interreg iii .
for its part , the commission will continue to give prompt and constructive consideration to this type of request .
let me just finish by underlying the support of victims .
the european parliament regularly asks the commission to intervene on behalf of the victims of these disasters .
the commission is obliged to respond that there is no longer a budget line which permits such measures .
however , the commission has not yet taken a final position on whether to propose a legal basis for measures in this area .
the second option would be for the commission to propose a legal basis but this would mean tying up significant sums within heading 3 of the financial perspective .
the commission would also need to take into account the resource implications of managing any new activities in this area .
thank you for your contribution to this debate .
no , mr davies , this is not something one can legislate for .
the debate is closed .
we know that they can cause deformities in the sexual organs , in both animals and humans , and we know that they can cause severe diseases , including testicular cancer and breast cancer .
however , at the same time , there is still great uncertainty concerning the collective consequences of the many endocrine-disrupting substances .
it could easily be slightly more ambitious .
in the report i have proposed that this should be done before the end of this year .
at the same time , it is essential for the most dangerous substances on the list to be identified so that initiatives can be taken immediately to intervene in respect of the most dangerous substances .
various measures may be taken : bans , phasing out over a shorter or longer period of years and other restrictions on use .
we must also do it through aggressive use of the precautionary principle , in which connection i also think it is important to give consideration to particularly vulnerable groups .
industry must be required to report on which chemical substances are being put onto the market , in what quantities they are being used and what the expected effects are .
we know that these substances can interact in a particularly unfortunate way .
as part of future legislation on chemical substances , i believe it would be a good thing if we succeeded in establishing a special framework , some special chapters on endocrine disrupters .
there must be a legislative framework that is based on the precautionary principle and on the principle of a reverse burden of proof .
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the various groups and thank the commission for the cooperation we have had in connection with the drawing up of the report .
it is ourselves in the commission , the council and parliament who must lay down the legislative frameworks , and not the scientific committees .
the eu scientific committee on toxicity , eco-toxity and the environment has noted that there is a potentially global problem with wildlife .
these substances can have excessively harmful effects on reproductive functions , whether they be human , animal or plant .
moreover , this is the meaning of paragraphs 3 , 6 and 7 .
better cooperation with american and japanese research authorities is absolutely vital .
this research alone will allow us to take into consideration the specific risks linked to these disrupters in future framework legislation on chemical substances .
the rapporteur - who has produced an excellent report - cites the precautionary principle as the basis for the relevant measures to be taken .
the precautionary principle not only leads to the implementation of legislative measures ; positive , non-legislative measures may also be introduced .
my amendment aims to make this reality .
i also hope that the opinion of the scientific committee on toxicity , eco-toxicity and the environment , which was expressed on 5 september , will be taken into consideration .
the expertise of this scientific committee is well known and it would be appropriate to take its opinion into account before any legislative decision is taken .
the precautionary principle also dictates that we should base our decision on the best scientific knowledge available .
it seems to me that this procedure is already a safeguard .
i agree with the rapporteur that our parliament must send a realistic and responsible message to the general public , to consumers , to the commission and also to industry in general .
their doubts and concerns are real .
we do not know the answers and there are more than 500 chemicals from which we could choose .
i have doubts about the use of the precautionary principle and of course , about the misuse of the precautionary principle - by its nature we never know when it is appropriate to use it or not .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to congratulate mr torben lund on a sterling report which can rely on my group ' s unqualified support .
in my own linguistic area , the term did not become an established concept until one or two years ago .
half of the 560 substances which are suspected of having an endocrine disruptive effect are pesticides .
in my view , this should be put right during the revision of the pesticide directive in 2003 at the latest .
this example shows that the harmful effects of various endocrine disrupters is a global problem that has affected even the most isolated parts of the world .
it is precisely now that there is reason for using this principle far more aggressively .
we cannot be too prompt in implementing the report ' s recommendations to the effect that future framework legislation on chemical substances should be based both on the precautionary principle and on a reverse burden of proof .
i think anyone listening to this debate who has never heard of endocrine disrupters would be forgiven for thinking that endocrine disrupters were more to do with some science fiction horror story than their own public health .
presently , community chemicals legislation fails to address the risk that endocrine disrupters pose .
it is a worrying fact that the human body contains more than 100 chemicals which were not present 50 years ago .
a further problem is the fact that it is almost impossible to set limit values for hormone-mimicking substances .
that is why this report is so important .
one of the reasons for this is the significant potential damage that such substances can cause to animals and human beings and , most importantly , to the unborn foetus and our reproductive capacity .
the area of endocrine disrupters is a complex one where there are still many questions to be answered .
what we do know is that a number of man-made chemicals that have been released into the environment , as well as a few natural ones , have the potential to disrupt the endocrine system of animals , including humans .
among these are persistent bio-accumulative compounds that include some pesticides and industrial chemicals as well as other synthetic products .
there are adequate quantitative data showing a causal link between exposure to these substances and a reduction in reproductive success in wildlife .
however , there are also many uncertainties since the nature and extent of the effects of exposure on humans are not well established .
i am pleased that parliament supports the commission objective to identify appropriate policy action on the basis of the precautionary principle in order to respond quickly and effectively to the problem of endocrine disruption .
this principle and the need to develop quick and effective risk management strategies in relation to endocrine disrupters was also stressed by the environmental council in its conclusions of 30 march .
regarding research and development , the commission 's main instrument is the fifth framework programme on research and development .
i am pleased to inform you that endocrine disruption has been highlighted as a priority research topic in the latest revision of the relevant programmes concerning human health and the environment .
the recommendations in the parliament motion for a resolution will be taken into account .
for this reason we believe that legislative action to reduce exposure in a comprehensive manner , on the basis of the precautionary principle , can be considered only when agreed test methods are available .
agreed test methods are also necessary to launch a comprehensive exercise in the search for substitutes .
at the same time we need to take into account existing scientific evidence .
that is why we make provision in the short term to act without agreed test methods on the basis of the precautionary principle and on a case-by-case basis .
parliament supports the commission objective to identify a first set of endocrine disrupting substances by the end of this year and to identify specific cases of consumer use and eco-system exposure for special action without awaiting further tests .
an analysis of existing legal instruments relating to endocrine disrupters will also be part of this exercise .
first , the commission objective of the end of 2000 is based on a two-step process : firstly a candidate list compiled by consultants and secondly prioritisation .
the second step of this exercise involves consultation with stakeholders in which we aim to achieve as wide a consensus as possible on priority substances .
i cannot give a commitment now that all 553 candidate substances will be on the priority list without pre-empting the outcome of the stakeholders ' discussions , which are under way .
in contrast , initial comments received from member states and ngos indicate support for the report as a valid starting point .
i would like to add here that some of the criticisms are based on the false assumption that a group of 60 substances identified in this report will be the priority substances .
these substances are in fact part of a candidate list of 553 substances on which discussions on priorities are still under way .
my second comment in relation to the priority list of substances concerns the request in the motion for a resolution for a decision on intervention on specific cases by mid-2001 .
in addition , the role of the scientific committees in providing independent scientific advice will be crucial in these specific cases .
finally , as you are aware , the commission intends to present a white paper on the overall chemicals policy by the end of this year .
one of the fundamental principles for this policy is to ensure a high level of protection .
clearly the endocrine disrupting strategy must be consistent with the overall policy on chemicals .
a number of specific elements in parliament 's motion for a resolution , such as the shifting of the burden of proof , a redefinition of the responsibility of manufacturers , a review of labelling legislation and grouping of chemicals for screening and testing , must be and are being addressed in the context of this overall chemicals policy .
the views of parliament expressed in the motion for a resolution will be taken into account in the white paper under preparation .
finally , regarding international cooperation and information exchange , the commission is organising a workshop on endocrine disrupters in the first half of 2001 with the sponsorship of the world health organisation among others .
this workshop will convene all stakeholders to take stock of progress and make further recommendations on the development of test methods and testing strategy , research and the establishment of monitoring programmes .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m .
in recent years , fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the dollar and other circumstances have brought the level of aid down to half the level it was at four years ago .
the commission ' s proposal , however , consists in stabilising aid at the reduced level and granting aid directly to producer organisations , with which the minimum price regime will disappear .
before the end of the year , the commission is to submit a report on the operation of the com on fruit and vegetables , possibly supplementing it with new proposals for reform .
the commission justifies the proposal we are now examining on the grounds of urgency .
the problem is that , after the 1996 reform of the com , the producer organisations became its main instrument .
currently , however , only 40 % of fruit and vegetable production is pooled within producer organisations .
a com that only covers 40 % of production does not deserve the name .
since this is an exception in the common agricultural policy and the producers themselves have to cofinance the operational funds , an increase in community funding is clearly the most obvious instrument for achieving this objective .
the agriculture committee has therefore proposed an increase in the percentage of community financing for certain joint schemes involving several producer organisations under certain conditions , especially in the regions most dependent on fruit and vegetable production , or for associations or mergers of producer organisations .
the differences in the figures between the commission ' s proposal and that of the agriculture committee , which was , in fact , passed almost unanimously , basically centre on aid levels and processing thresholds .
the agriculture committee ' s line is in fact limited to restoring pre-1996 aid levels .
a reasonable level of aid would allow producers ' incomes to be maintained in a particularly difficult situation .
you see , fruit and vegetables currently receive eur 445 million less than the ceiling set in the financial perspective .
in my view , budget neutrality consists in keeping within the limits set when the financial perspective was adopted .
our main concern should be to improve the effectiveness of the instruments that we have all built up together .
without a budget there can be no building of europe , and the budget for the fruit and vegetable sector symbolises and reflects many of the main social and territorial imbalances in the common policy .
madam president , commissioner , tomorrow parliament is to vote on the proposal for reform in the processed fruit and vegetable sector .
i believe this reform is necessary , but in its proposal the european commission is not moving in exactly the right direction .
therefore the approved amendments proposed by the rapporteur on this matter enjoy our full approval .
the list of products should be extended to include those that may be vulnerable to major falls in prices due to the weather or for cyclical reasons .
the commission ' s proposal to reduce the maximum citrus-fruit withdrawal ceiling from 10 % to 5 % is unjustified and i believe it should not be upheld .
with regard to dry fruit and nuts , especially hazelnuts , the request to extend the period of aid given to producer organisations that have implemented their improvement plans is still valid , as are the measures specific to this sector which are due to expire in the next round even though there has been no change in their circumstances .
these reforms mean a budget increase , but within the line approved at the berlin european summit .
the commission should do its sums again in view of the fact that this ceiling is not exceeded .
madam president , this debate is a consequence of the commission ' s proposed reform of three regulations : on fruit and vegetables , products derived from fruit and vegetables , and the aid scheme for producers of certain citrus fruits .
as has been pointed out , the commission has acted without awaiting the report on the operation of regulation ( ec ) no 2020 / 1996 , which , according to the commission , will be available by the end of this year .
the fact that it has not waited for this document - as would have seemed more natural - and has initiated the reform reveals that the commission either has little interest in the results of its report or could not care less about its contents .
in my view , if the question is whether or not the regulations need reforming , the answer is yes ; but , on the other hand , if the question is whether the reform they need is that contained in the commission ' s proposal , then the answer is clearly no , because improvements in the operating mechanisms of the sector must not be achieved at the expense of precisely one of the sectors that receives least support in community budgets .
we do not intend to oppose these agreements or criticise them , because they are an exercise in solidarity with third-world and developing countries , but it does not seem sensible that the price of solidarity should be paid exclusively by a sector that has never been treated well in community budgets .
moreover , i give this support in the belief that the council will be more sensitive than the commission to the reasoned and reasonable proposals of the european parliament .
we are convinced that the commission ' s proposal is restrictive in budgetary terms , which would mean major financial cut-backs in the sector .
it should be remembered that the fruit and vegetable sector is the first common organisation of the market to be financed by its own producers , so it is vitally important to encourage producer organisations and to support an increase in operational funds .
it must be stressed that the fruit and vegetable sector represents a considerable percentage of final agricultural production in the european union .
i must mention the predominantly mediterranean nature of this type of production , which affects several member states .
in general terms it is the main source of income for almost two million families in europe .
the fruit and vegetable sector , however , faces an uncertain future due in part to the erosion of community preference in the euro-mediterranean free trade area , which may wipe out all the work that has been done .
particularly serious are the measures designed to abolish the minimum price , which affects tomatoes destined for processing , the reduction in the limit for aid for operational funds from 4.5 % to 3 % of the value of the production marketed by each producer organisation , the precautionary reduction of 9.1 % of the amount of aid for the first marketing year following the reform of the com and a reduction in the citrus fruit withdrawal ceiling .
the amendments tabled by the rapporteur , mr jove peres , therefore deserve our support , since they seek to correct the unacceptable views held by the commission , specifically in its proposals against increasing aid to farmers , on increasing thresholds and on resetting ceilings for aid to producer organisations .
in the name of a global foreign policy , brussels has sacrificed our tree growers , our market gardeners and our horticulturists , who have become a currency of exchange in the free exchange culture .
the deal is well known : fruit and vegetables , flowers and wine in the southern hemisphere and , perhaps , industry in the north .
but if we do not put an end to the global drift in european integration , little by little not only will the farmers disappear , but the whole of europe will drown in the ocean of the global market .
madam president , commissioner , when developing any strategy , before starting to distort the past and adopt new operating guidelines , one must analyse how much has been achieved .
it would now seem to be irrefutable that since 1996 - the year which saw a complete revision of the com in processed fruit and vegetables - there has not been any form of discussion , even though it had always been intended , on the impact of the com in that sector , despite the fact that it has reached its third year of application : a period of time that has to be seen as long enough for introducing any reform initiative .
the interests of an entire industry are at stake , an industry which employs almost 2 million people in the central southern areas of the mediterranean countries , universally acknowledged to be among the poorest countries in the european union .
the fruit and vegetable sector is struggling between production quotas and world-wide liberalisation of the markets for want of a policy for research into biotechnological innovations .
it is the processing sector which feels the effects of the marrakech international agreements most of all , even though it accounts for 16 % of the value of european union agricultural production .
if the philosophy behind the new com is to promote the system of associations of producer organisations as an alternative and a complement to the european economic system of large-scale distributors , it would be appropriate for this policy to be bolstered with the financial resources needed to implement the operational programmes , ensuring real financial assistance of at least 4.5 % of the marketed production instead of the 3 % proposed by the commission .
in order to be able to continue to work , producers are calling for the adoption of legislation which will support the development of the fruit and vegetable sector , not hamper it .
madam president , commissioner , the market organisation in fruit and vegetables was reformed in 1997 and , three years down the line , the results have not lived up to expectations .
the reform has not brought the future we all hoped for at the outset because , in fact , as was highlighted by a previous speaker , the membership rate of the producer organisations has remained very low : less than 40 % .
under these conditions , the producer organisations have been unable to have a real impact on controlling and promoting products in the fruit and vegetables sector .
we are thus faced with a paradoxical situation where one of the most important sectors of european agriculture , which covers 20 % of production units , employs a great deal of manpower in production and processing , and accounts for 16 % of final agricultural production , is ultimately one of the sectors least taken into account by the common agricultural policy .
against this background , i naturally want to highlight the opportunity provided by the commission proposal that we are debating this evening .
finally , i hope that the council of ministers will make a speedy decision in respect of this reform so that it can come into force in 2001 with the appropriate funding .
the sector must secure a stronger market position .
i would like to make a number of observations with regard to the distribution of processing and threshold quotas across the countries .
but in this report , i am precisely in favour of strengthening producer organisations , also by way of responding to this report .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , on 12 july the commission presented a proposal for amending the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables , although we are expecting an evaluation report from the commission in december 2000 on functioning of this very market organisation .
furthermore , direct sales from the farm emphasise the regional nature of products and thus appeal to a certain type of consumer .
the result would be that the producer organisations ' sales volume would fall and that they would lose their influence over these producers ' direct sales activities , as regards complying with quality standards , observing production guidelines and pursuing joint market strategies .
commissioner , this sector seems to be the hard currency used in preferential agreements with third countries and in the subsequent reviews of their protocols , with the added disadvantage that these countries produce without the economic , social and environmental conditions we have in europe , but with the same timetables as our own producing areas .
thirdly , the level of operational funds is also completely inadequate .
i therefore feel that certain subsidies have been particularly depleted , not only by the general fall in the euro which we have witnessed recently - in which regard it would be appropriate to take action before the situation degenerates into a dispute with the european establishment as a whole - but also with regard to the attitude to be adopted in respect of mediterranean products .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i have great sympathy for the efforts being made by the commission and the commissioner to make savings , which is quite justifiable .
but without wishing to indulge in special pleading , the situation in the fruit and vegetable sector is visibly deteriorating .
for example , you can live very well from 40 hectares in the area i come from , the south tyrol .
so it is not quite that bad , but nevertheless ...
international trade agreements are to some extent at the expense of this fruit and vegetable sector and therefore benefit other sectors .
that was the reason why the commission to some extent anticipated the report and brought forward this proposal for discussion without waiting for the final report .
but the fact that we anticipated these four areas does not mean that we will not present the report required in the com .
in view of the budget situation and the berlin decisions , any proposal that would have led to substantial increases in budgetary expenditure in favour of a specific sector would have been unrealistic .
for tomatoes , pears , peaches and citrus fruits , individual thresholds for member states have been set in addition to the community threshold , and permanent aid is paid direct to the producer organisations .
the second group of amendments are specific requests relating to the functioning of the com , for example amendment no 5 on new raw manure , and amendments nos 27 , 21 , 25 and 34 on special support measures for severe crises .
amendment no 18 is intended to improve the scope for direct sales , and amendments nos 22 to 24 relate to the operational fund .
the third group of amendments does relate to the proposal actually being debated here .
amendments nos 6 and 25 propose an increase in community support via the operational funds .
the aim of amendments nos 31 and 32 is to strike out the reductions in market withdrawal ceilings proposed by the commission .
amendment no 39 proposes simplification of the procedure for adjusting new products in the processing sector .
amendment no 43 relates to transitional arrangements for tomatoes and amendment no 12 calls for a study on the abolition of the minimum price .
lastly , amendments nos 62 to 66 provide for direct aids for producers not involved in processing .
i cannot therefore accept these amendments .
of course the issue of the overall level of community financing for this sector is also to be discussed by the council on monday .
amendments nos 62 to 66 change the existing system in a way that would jeopardise efforts to develop producer organisations .
the commission regards this as an unnecessary disadvantaging of this sector .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m .
madam president , when i first started to consider drafting this report , i wondered whether it was a wise decision for any politician from northern ireland to agree to bring forward a report on box viia in the irish sea .
however , i believe that in politics you have to take on board some of the more positive aspects of life .
while this may have been a poisoned chalice initially , i hope that ultimately , i , parliament and the commission can together develop something that will be very positive and fruitful for the fishermen who depend on fishing in the irish sea .
perhaps five years ago if you told fishermen in that particular area that there was a need for this , they would have said there was no need for it .
now there would be a more positive response and a recognition that there is a problem , there has been a problem .
the real question now is how we resolve that problem .
i welcome the cooperation that has existed between the fishermen , their representatives , the commission and local , regional and national governments , on this particular point .
it is a very technical report and requires the cooperation of the fishermen with the commission and regional authorities to ensure that we no longer destroy what was considered a very natural resource in the past .
what the fishermen are asking is that the commission responds to them in a more positive way than it has in the past .
that is no easy task way for anyone .
i believe we can find a way through and a positive way forward , but only if everyone cooperates .
i hope the commissioner can be positive in his response .
it is not a burden that is easily carried so we require a review every 12 months .
however , this can only work if the problems of the origin principle and of recrimination , powers and responsibilities can finally be solved at all levels .
and it is quite simple to do that in the middle of the night in the irish sea .
that is why the committee on fisheries unanimously supported our feisty colleague james nicholson .
madam president , rapporteur and commissioner , this report is a tragic tale about a fish which one author has quoted as literally changing the world in the past thousand years .
this report outlines the technical measures which can be used to preserve juvenile cod .
it can provide short-term solutions for a longer-term problem .
this will enable us to vote tomorrow on a commission proposal which very much needs to be implemented .
i should like , however , to raise a series of questions that have occurred to me regarding amendments nos 1 and 2 , which ask that the changes in fishing techniques to be adopted under this proposal should be subsidised under the fifg .
although in principle i have nothing against aid to fishermen , i do think it should be granted within a specific framework and in accordance with unequivocal criteria , and this is the basis of my question : to clarify what these criteria are .
the rapporteur invokes articles 15 and 16 of regulation ( ec ) no 2792 / 1999 in support of his request for aid .
i think it is worth making this point clear , because it is obvious that any technical measure means an economic loss for fishermen , either directly or indirectly .
if this is the criterion that must be followed , it is also clear that if measures such as those proposed are subsidised , then subsidies will also have to be given to any others deriving from a modification of technical measures which would result in changes in the use of fishing techniques or methods , in other words virtually all the reforms under the technical measures regulation .
the major fisheries organisations in the uk - the scottish fishermen 's federation and the national federation of fishermen 's organisations - which , between them represent the interests of 1900 vessels , both support the concept of zonal management .
that is why again , zonal fisheries management which involves all fishermen working in a common fishery will ensure that the rules are applied fairly and squarely across the board .
this report is timely , as cod stocks are not only diminishing rapidly in the irish sea but are in spiral decline around all the waters of the united kingdom .
hopefully this report will mark the beginning of the recovery of cod stocks in the irish sea and will pave the way to the future .
there are two reasons why the commission cannot accept amendments nos 3 and 4 , which relate to compensatory aid .
second , and even more importantly , there are member states who have to decide under regulation 27 / 97 whether they will offer fishermen compensatory aid for temporarily withdrawing from fishing activity or not .
the other two amendments , amendments nos 1 and 2 , address a future review of the regulation and the commission finds them difficult for the following reasons : first , the fact that everyone - the commission , member states ' administrations and also fishermen themselves - want the regulation to come into force on 1 january 2001 .
in my opinion , any delay in this entry into force is to be avoided .
this could well lead to a review of the measures and conditions to be put in place now .
if you want to defend that to the fishermen you can do so , but i will not be part of it .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m .
the local loop unbundling regulation is an important piece of legislation which completes unfinished business from the past but also represents an important step forward into the future .
at the same time , by ensuring that access to the local loop - the last mile of so-called copper wire - is now open to all new market entrants and is not the exclusive province of the so-called incumbent operators , the regulation will act as a significant boost for increased choice of non-voice services for consumers .
as such , it will help fulfil the promise made in lisbon in march of this year when a number of ambitious targets were set , which , it is said , will help ensure that the gap that has opened between the european union and the united states in the information economy is closed as soon as possible .
the procedure we had to follow , in order to act as quickly as possible upon the conclusions of the lisbon summit and the proposal of the commission in july , has been unusual .
i am told that if we vote on the report tomorrow and adopt our report as voted in the committee it will be the fastest piece of legislation of this type ever processed by the european union institutions .
firstly , cooperation with the commission - and i would like to thank commissioner liikanen and all his extremely good officials who have been working on this for their assiduous help throughout the process .
i have had the privilege and the benefit of working with a number of colleagues of all groups who have pulled together in the committee to produce the report which we will be voting on tomorrow .
those of us who have worked on it all agree that if this sets a precedent for the future , we could perhaps consider promulgating some rules which will facilitate this kind of process in the future but also some rules on substance .
the european consumer has , in the worst cases , had to pay ten times more to connect to the internet than the americans .
on behalf of my group , i hope that tomorrow ' s vote has a positive outcome and then the ball really will be in the council ' s court , and we shall be able to apply the new regulations within the framework of new legislation at the beginning of the new year .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , my thanks go to mr clegg for his excellent work .
in just a few weeks we in the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy have dealt with this issue and have , under the leadership of the rapporteur , succeeded in negotiating this proposal with the commission and the council , a proposal that must surely be adopted tomorrow without amendment .
that is very important .
the argument that this will allow new services to develop does not stand up , given that these services can be developed by the telecommunications organisations equally well and , without the strain of having to make huge profits , certainly more cheaply .
i believe it is important to ensure that the changes take place in a controlled way , to allow all players involved the time to adjust and to guarantee the rights of all consumers .
i believe that the national regulatory authority should be able to play a fair and mediating role between existing operators and new networks .
madam president , commissioner , the lisbon extraordinary european council set a basic strategic objective for the european union : that of becoming ' the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world ' .
for this statement to become reality , it must be followed by measures to liberalise the markets , promote competition and thereby open up access for new suppliers of telecommunications services and in particular internet services .
in my country , italy , the conditions for the liberalisation of the last mile have existed for a long time , but the national telecommunications authority has delayed practical implementation , in particular with regard to fixing price charges for access to the local loop .
there are parties who have much to lose and , in italy , there is a conflict of interests between the state as regulator and the state as owner or controller of some of the main telecommunications services companies .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , as the previous speakers have already said , we are entering new territory with the regulation on unbundled access to the local loop .
the aim of this is to approve the regulation on unbundled access quickly , so that local telecommunications markets can be opened up to competition by the end of the year .
without nicholas clegg and all his commitment it would not have been possible to consider the regulation so swiftly in committee and here in the plenary and , i hope , to approve it tomorrow .
he has been able to reconcile varying positions and to present parliament 's views to the council .
the regulation is intended to provide for competition in this " last mile . "
according to the latest studies , at the beginning of 2000 only 400 000 europeans had access to broadband services , compared with 3 million in the usa .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , many thanks to nicholas clegg also for his hard work .
this initiative will ultimately also help to promote the information society .
but quicker and cheaper internet access without content is worthless .
above all , the information society must mean investment in people and their skills .
one important point is that the regulation regulates in the spirit of the original telecommunications liberalisation , that is in an asymmetrical way .
i hope that the council will not leave us in the lurch should one or other member state perhaps still have reservations .
mr clegg said in his speech that this was a controversial and complicated piece of work and i think therefore we chose well to appoint him as a rapporteur .
it will not surprise this house to know that , as a representative of the british conservative party - and it was the conservative government that privatised british telecom over 17 years ago , probably the first of the large-scale telecom privatisations in europe - i very much welcome this essential further action to deregulate and open up the market .
we want to see the new entrepreneurs , the new internet companies coming into the market .
can i start by congratulating mr clegg on the speed and quality of his work and also welcoming him to this rather exclusive band of members who so often are here late at night debating telecommunications issues .
indeed commissioner liikanen 's predecessor , commissioner bangemann described us once as ' we few , we happy few , we band of brothers ' .
parliament must be ready to look at new ways of working , imaginative and , as mr harbour says , adventurous .
others have mentioned the lisbon summit and it is of course right to stress that this legislation follows a commitment from the european union member states to support the growth and use of the internet in europe under the e-europe action plan .
much of this would not happen without this promise to provide affordable , high-speed internet access and we note the importance of unbundling in the success of the e-europe plan .
it is also true that the combined efforts of the commission , parliament and the council have brought about this legislation as part of an overall effort to modernise telecommunications law .
madam president , unbundling access to the local loop is intended to open up the level of competition , providing lower prices for the customer and easier , cheaper access to the internet , fostering technological innovation in the local access area .
but as the rapporteur mentioned , many of us have been made aware of the concerns of the local telecommunications provider .
the irish telecommunications provider , eirecom , maintains that it should be allowed a reasonable time period to implement the changes and that the 31 december deadline is practically unachievable .
also , charging for unbundled access to the local loop should be fair and adequate to ensure the long-term development and upgrading of the local access infrastructure .
when we combine this possible scenario with other measures that adversely affect rural areas , such as the liberalisation of the postal service , which threatens the survival of small rural post offices , and the recent closure of many small rural banks , how will the possible reduction of investment in long-term development and upgrade of local access infrastructure affect already disadvantaged rural regions ?
commissioner , madam president , ladies and gentlemen , behind the somewhat barbaric name of the proposal for a regulation which we are debating this evening , unbundling access to the local loop , an expression moreover which is totally impenetrable for the average citizen , there lies a simple yet serious decision regarding the liberalisation of the local network of voice telephony and data transmission services .
as we have heard this evening , for some in this house , the closing of the final chapter of a public monopoly can only lead to an automatic reduction in the costs of local communications and this can therefore only be positive for consumers .
for others , including me , this is far from being quite so obvious and , above all , quite so automatic .
if unregulated competition always leads to a permanent reduction in prices , and always benefits each and every consumer everywhere , this would have happened long ago .
our rapporteur and colleague , mr nicholas clegg , has certainly done a lot of work , and i congratulate him on that .
but he is very liberal and so he has naturally rejected anything that could lead to a genuine universal service .
mr clegg has correctly and very seriously set forth the commission 's proposal on unbundling from a technical standpoint .
but i am sorry to say that , as i see it , he has not adequately responded to the longer term risk posed for the weaker and the more susceptible players in a deregulated system , and to the risk posed by private monopolies .
it must be , and it can be , an objective in itself and , for us europeans , a value and an asset for balanced and sustainable development .
the environment and telecommunications will in future play a very special role in international competitiveness .
this directive in particular demonstrates that we have been very thorough in aiming for fairness , and this has been a model of how to legislate , with a review , with a proper and thorough examination , with all stakeholders being consulted , and , lastly , a good , efficient , swift and precise procedure in the european parliament .
i do not normally take a position in this house which is based purely on national considerations but it seems to me that we are attempting to put in place a regulation which is inflexible and does not take into account the position of the market in ireland .
the proposal that we have will oblige eirecom , a private limited company , a former state monopoly , to open up its local loop to alternative providers and will not oblige alternative providers already in the market place such as cable tv , satellite and wireless local loop operators to do the same .
cable tv companies in ireland already possess the network and are already gearing up their network to provide telephony , internet and other interactive services .
the regulation on unbundled access to local loop is by its very nature inherently flawed .
when we increase competition in the networks it will cut prices , improve quality and make the services more affordable .
it will help to create an inclusive information society .
if parliament were to accept tomorrow the clegg report we would show that we can .
we will have concrete proof , which would increase enormously the credibility of the european union , especially in the eyes of the younger generation which lives in this age of the internet .
none of this would not be possible without excellent cooperation between the institutions .
it really is a key part of the e-europe action plan to liberalise the telecommunications market to make the prices cheap and the quality of service higher .
insofar as the implementation of this regulation is concerned , yesterday the national regulators had a meeting with commission officials .
the commission can also welcome practically everything in the report .
the report is supportive of the objectives and draft measures included in the commission proposal .
first , the aim is to mandate operators not defined as having significant market power in the provision of fixed telephony networks to provide unbundled access to the metallic local loop from 31 december 2000 under transparent , non-discriminatory and cost-oriented conditions .
the commission accepts in full all 18 amendments to the clegg report .
they improve the commission 's proposal , providing for more accurate technical definitions and more specific requirements of the national players and national regulatory authorities .
these amendments are constructive and will ensure that the regulation is fully operational .
thus they guarantee that unbundling is rapidly and effectively implemented from 31 december 2000 .
the commission also hopes that the council will approve the text as amended in the report and hopefully accepted by parliament tomorrow .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.40 p.m. )
we shall pursue that action tirelessly . ( applause ) madam president , my intervention refers to the situation in the ivory coast .
the reply is clear .
last-minute negotiations have been held with all the groups and , in my capacity as rapporteur , i should like to table a number of technical corrections on five points .
here the groups have agreed to place 50 % against the budget line and to leave 50 % in the reserve , and not to put the total amount in the reserve as previously decided .
the same applies to line b3-306 for the prince information campaign .
these are lines b7-5211 and b7-547 .
the vote concerns an amendment tabled by the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party to increase the tobacco subsidy by eur 5 million .
before the vote on amendment no 929 madam president , mr maat may wish to make the same comment as me .
the honourable members can all read , mr heaton-harris .
i congratulate all our rapporteurs .
madam president , my name appears as a signatory to various amendments on this report .
the current common agricultural policy is not only expensive for the union , but also contributes to higher consumer prices .
in the matter of the external measures in category 4 , we have chosen to vote according to a line which does not require revision of the financial perspective .
no one in the european parliament would support discrimination or violence against women ; we must remember that to deny women a voice is a form of violence against them .
haug report ( a5-0300 / 2000 ) i voted against the haug report , just as i voted in favour of my group ' s motion to reject the general budget for 2001 .
thirdly : because the budget remains a mechanism for applying a policy which falls short on the social and development side and which has not been reorganised despite constant warnings of the fall in the euro . - ( sv ) as swedish and danish social democrats , we have today voted in favour of parliament ' s proposal on the eu budget for the budget year 2001 .
we are firmly resolved to find the funds required in order to be able to provide increased aid for reconstruction and democratisation in the balkans , including in serbia , now .
consequently , we call upon the council to react positively to parliament ' s initiative for a common and long-term solution before the final decision on the budget is taken in december .
the eu ' s agricultural policy is far too expensive .
we refer in particular to the new pilot scheme to finance information measures in the fight against paedophilia .
the budget for 2001 still comprises obscure items that shower funds on a host of associations and cultural centres , the actual need for which is still to be fully proven .
ferber report ( a5-0292 / 2000 ) - ( sv ) where travel expense refunds for members of the european parliament are concerned , we maintain our view that refunds must be made only for actual costs incurred for travel on official business .
the public funds that are being spent by the eu can be better used in the member states .
ruhle report ( a5-0251 / 2000 ) we have naturally voted against the budget for the ecsc , which until the ecsc treaty expires will continue to rain down subsidies on shareholders in the iron and steel industry .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the ecsc treaty will soon expire .
as the report states , unbundled access to the local loop allows new entrants to compete with notified operators in offering high bit-rate data transmission services for continuous internet access and for multimedia applications based on digital subscriber line technology as well as voice telephony services , using local network infrastructures that have already been installed by other operators , generally public service operators .
many have already anticipated this directive , like france telecom .
the regulation of the sector by the law of maximum return will result in the creation of profitable and less profitable areas in the territory covered .
if 20 or more competitors are allowed to hang around in the roughly 50 exchanges belonging to the former incumbent in my small country , then we can bid farewell to confidential telephone calls and security in these exchanges .
this persecution hits the produce of small and medium-sized farmers in the south particularly hard .
the growing dutch glasshouse horticulture , which yields a large volume of vegetables , fruit and flowers in a small space , is in a much stronger position than cereal or dairy farms .
the present report puts forward amendments on a range of points that address the interests of european production in general and of portuguese production in particular .
i abstained because i feel that in this case , as mr bushill-matthews and the english members have said , there has been a lack of subsidiarity .
johan van hecke report ( a5-0296 / 2000 ) madam president , it is very important for the european union to concern itself with the inhabitants of acp - african , caribbean and pacific - states .
personally , as the representative of the pensioners party , i am concerned at the situation of the elderly in these countries .
moreira da silva report ( a5-0270 / 2000 ) the problem of global warming caused by concentrations of gases in the atmosphere which exacerbate the greenhouse effect , such as carbon dioxide , is taking on explosive proportions .
we fail to understand how it is possible to create an entire market which trades in pollution as a commodity and on which , instead of reducing their own co2 emissions , some companies buy in surplus coverage from other companies which are within their limits .
despite this , the governments of the richest countries with the highest emission levels of fossil combustion products have failed to bring about a drastic reduction in these emission levels .
the member states themselves will need to drastically reduce their emission of co2 and other greenhouse gases by focusing on renewable energy , public transport and reducing traffic levels .
moreira da silva report ( a5-0271 / 2000 ) we are in favour of any tax or levy on the big industrial companies that are largely responsible for pollution in general , and atmospheric pollution in particular .
i am very keen to present my explanation of vote on this report , an explanation of what was in fact a vote in favour , because i would like to ask you , madam president , in much the same way as i am asking myself , whether we are entirely sure that the climate changes that we are seeing have been caused by man , by industrialisation and by the emission of substances into the atmosphere .
accepting the establishment of a market in carbon dioxide emissions at international level amounts to letting western countries duck their responsibilities by purchasing fictitious russian emission rights or financing projects in southern countries that are completely inconsistent with their development needs , without any means of checking actual reductions in emissions .
this money should be spent by bringing into line and coordinating expenditure on research policy in all the 15 member states of the european union .
in modern society , with all its consumer goods , such as appliances , we need materials and substances with very specific characteristics .
in my report , i have listed systems such as iban , swift , step 1 and ipi .
as i have stated in my report , this automation and standardisation process should be in place three months before the introduction of notes and coins .
the banks alone cannot reduce the total cost of transfers more or less to the level of the cost price for domestic payments .
they need the help of the member states .
after all , banks have so far been obliged by the member states to notify their central banks of any cross-border payments over eur 12 500 , for the benefit of balance of payment reporting statistics .
moreover , volume and number of retail payments only form a small percentage of the total number of credit transfers .
i hope that this report will encourage banks sufficiently to continue on their path of innovation towards better functioning , cross-border credit transfers .
madam president , since the borders between the member states of the european union were opened , an increasing number of firms have been taking advantage of the opportunities offered by this common market .
when the markets between the member states of the european union were opened up , our ambition as members of the european parliament was never to create access for large companies , which they had of course had for a long time already ; it was always to open up this large european market to small and medium-sized businesses .
what we wish to see is not just one single transfer system - which would once again be a monopoly - but competition between different transfer systems set up by different banks and groups of banks , competition which will at long last work in favour of the public and in favour of small and medium-sized businesses .
the monthly cheque to a daughter or son in another eu country , the cross-border transfers for books or services , hotels or trips are being subjected to additional charges , despite the fact that the logistics of cross-border trade are supposed to be less complex and less expensive .
in the european parliament in our work in committee , we also very much regretted the fact that the offer made by the european central bank was not accepted .
the european central bank could help by creating a single european data format for credit transfers and by supporting moves to create a uniform european bank sort code within the international iban system .
they therefore play a part in restricting freedom of movement in the internal market .
i believe that this report is of central importance if we are truly to succeed in integrating the public and small and medium-sized businesses into the euro area and for increasing public acceptance of economic and monetary union .
living in the monetary union also means counting on a reliable cross-border credit transfer system - this is the battle cry for the remaining 432 days .
madam president , i would like to concur with the rapporteur and her excellent report .
it is crucial for consumers to accept the euro .
the idea that transfers in two participating euro area countries will no longer be considered as an international transaction incurring international costs but as a national transfer , will need to become universally accepted .
the high bank charges involved in the completion of the internal market constitute a barrier .
in the free movement of capital involving the single currency , there should not be any restrictions or huge discrepancies .
it is a fact that banks throughout the euro area took a reserved stance before the implementation of the directive on cross-border retail payments .
this is not some fiendish ploy by the bankers , just a technical reality temporarily resisting resolution , but bound to evolve in the right direction in time .
in every case , it is really microscopic .
i have just explained why these two problems are not linked , at least not apparently .
of course , in the strict sense that is true , but the naive reader , the non-specialist , thought that all the costs of cross-border payments would disappear , when in fact foreign exchange commissions only represented a small part of those costs , just a small percentage .
this is excellent work on the part of the commission .
although we in the european parliament now criticise the banks we have to understand that cross-border payments account for only a six-percent slice of all payment transactions , so development of this area is an expensive investment in the eyes of the banks in relation to the benefits gained , from the point of view of the banks at least .
what we can do is compel or put pressure on the european central bank to invite banks to attend immediately a meeting of a working party on standardisation at which decisions could be taken regarding the technical circumstances under which costs could be reduced .
this promised benefit has not materialised ; and indeed , as the commission candidly admitted when this report was discussed in committee , no improvement is expected in the situation after the introduction of notes and coins .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i too should like to thank our colleague , mrs peijs , very much for her report and for being so persistent in her efforts to achieve results for the public .
on 1 january 2002 , the euro will also become a reality for the public , because then we will have the euro in our pockets .
today the average fee for transferring eur 100 to another country in the internal market is eur 17.10 , many times more than the fees for domestic transfers .
in the future , the euro area will also feel like a domestic area and the public do not understand why in this area , in which there are no exchange-related risks and in which electronic payments with internet banking are increasingly becoming a matter of course , transferring money from munich to salzburg is considerably more expensive than transferring money from munich to kiel .
i welcome the fact that the commission is maintaining its pressure on the banks and that it may increase the pressure further with the action it is taking against 120 banks .
the european central bank should also exert increased pressure .
the proposal by mrs peijs and myself also seeks to bring the banks together around one table , not to lay down the law , but because we simply cannot increase the pressure any further from the political side .
after all , on that fateful day , 1 january 2002 , all citizens of the euro area will have the same coins and notes in their purses and wallets .
this is why it is crucial that well before 1 january 2002 , a whole host of measures are taken , so that these are in place when the new coins and notes are introduced .
the commission will take a very close look at all the proposals made in the report .
the commission has sent declarations of objection to banks in six member states .
we will be exchanging ideas on this topic during the large round-table conference to be held on 9 november next in brussels .
in the summer of 2001 , the commission will also be presenting a report on the improvement of cross-border credit transfers .
even now , transfers take place within three days in 85 % of the cases .
we cannot , on the other hand , endorse the report by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , because this committee is asking us to take a legislative initiative to bring the costs of cross-border payments in line with those for domestic payments .
we can , of course , agree on the principle of this proposal , but not on the proposed working method .
the commission and european central bank are in constant , and often difficult , dialogue with the banking world to achieve tangible results , and your support in this is much appreciated .
the debate is closed .
the time when the defence of business , especially small and medium-sized business , was like a corporatist battle is long gone , not just because there is only a handful of diehards left who see the world of business through the distorting prism of the class struggle , but above all because , at the start of this third millennium , everyone knows that the issues of employment and social cohesion are crucial for our societies , and business has a pre-eminent role in those issues .
in fact , it is well to bear in mind that , at both the economic and the social level , business leads .
besides undeniably constituting the basis on which we must construct a policy on business which genuinely serves business , the charter has the great merit not just of limiting our action to small businesses , but of making them the central point in our thinking , our priority unit of reference .
that would send out the strong and clear signal the business world needs .
ladies and gentlemen , thank you in advance for supporting my report .
thank you on behalf of all enterprises , but also on behalf of our societies .
it really has been fun .
however , what is particularly important in this sector is that we promote a spirit of enterprise in society and that young people give more serious consideration to starting their own business or to going into smaller companies .
in this context the de minimis rule should , in any case , be re-examined and the group exemption regulation for smes should be revised .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , after eleven years in this house , i can bear witness to the fact that debates on small and medium-sized businesses in our parliament are neither new nor rare .
i have also asked that actions geared to specific groups like women , young people and the social economy sectors be encouraged , not forgetting employee participation in the life of these smes in general .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i would first and foremost like to express a word of thanks to the rapporteur who has indeed compiled her report with great care .
this care is more than needed if we want to establish ' enterprise europe ' by 2005 and if we want to make the european union into the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-driven economy in the world .
the amendment to the report in the committee , partly tabled at my proposal , emphasised that the multiannual programme must be used as an instrument to promote economic growth , full employment and social cohesion .
first , every business must be included .
so it is important to make sure our action here is positive .
we need operations in the field , regional delegations the commission , parliament or the council can control , as the majo report recognised just recently .
i really hope the commission will set up a working group on this topic , involving interested members of parliament .
but stoa is not really that kind of organisation and we have specific proposals to make on the subject .
mrs montfort , our group will give your report its wholesale support .
mr president , commissioner , small and medium-sized businesses , both in the manufacturing and in the service sectors , can only survive on the market if they have full order books .
your report is excellent .
mr president , this multiannual programme provides a european framework for the development of the innovative potential and the competitiveness of industry in the member states .
the rapporteur has listed a number of key points in a bid to strengthen the european entrepreneurial climate .
the question does , however , arise as to how the multiannual programme can help enterprises strengthen their competitiveness in specific terms .
you will see that the programme has been allocated around eur 230 million ; if you divide that by the 16 million small and medium-sized businesses in the european union the result is eur 3 per company per year .
my contact there is magister leitner , and if i come across a problem related to support programmes or a problem with the european institutions , then i can tell my employers that there is someone there who is competent and in the know , someone who can give information in the shortest possible time about public calls for tender , support programmes or research on infrastructure .
this is excellent for europe because help can be given quickly and competently in the form of technically correct information .
for small companies , the three or six months which they have to wait for a piece of information to be forthcoming or for a programme to start is an endlessly long time .
above all , when a one-man company or a company with fewer than 250 employees has a project , it should not need to provide 120 % loan guarantees in the form of land to receive financing ; it should also be possible for it to be funded on the basis of a good idea .
that is why associations such as normapme are very important , because this is another place where a small business can seek know-how quickly and efficiently , because tenders relating to this may be on the internet and because , quite simply , this is helpful for its everyday work .
the report does not breathe a word about that , because it would mean admitting that all the talk about small businesses is just a popularity-seeking justification for granting aid to big business .
i am the absentee boss of a very small enterprise , our family business in london .
i will not say what it does , that might constitute an advertisement , but it was founded by my father , francis chichester , and i am very proud of it .
i am reminded of what the commissioner said to us a year ago about the experience in the united states , where they are not afraid of failure and they believe in the old scottish proverb of " if at first you don 't succeed , try , try again . "
the nursery for small and medium-sized businesses contains several thousand experiments which feed large enterprises with manpower and ideas .
in many of the member states , people who set up their own businesses , rather than being viewed as having created at least one job - their own - are sometimes held to be delinquents , profiteers , thieves or tax evaders .
the more we get people from small and medium-sized businesses across parliament 's threshold talking to us about issues , the better we shall be able to do our job .
the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship will constitute a major instrument in support of european businesses .
it is primarily geared to small and medium-sized businesses .
that is why we should ' think small first ' .
we need advice from the business world and other interest groups in all our efforts .
the multiannual programme will be committed to improving the modus operandi of small and medium-sized businesses .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 6 p.m .
there is an urgent need , following the recent attacks on the greek minority in himara , to promote democratisation measures and measures to strengthen institutions and respect for human rights in albania .
another problem is the integration , using specific means , of albanians legally resident in the member states .
at the same time , we need coordinated action , with the maximum cooperation of europol , in order to put an end to trafficking and prostitution rings dealing in women and children and the actions of criminal gangs involved in trafficking in human beings , whom they then exploit through illicit employment and prostitution .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i really must express my surprise that the commission has allowed a high-level council working group to do the work that it should , in fact , have done after amsterdam .
a considerable number of albanians are leaving their homeland because of the instability in their country , because of the social difficulties and because of the pre-modern structures of society and family .
i should like to say just one thing , mrs karamanou : if albania is not a safe country of origin and we treat albanian refugees differently from others , then neither can albania claim that it wants to enter into a stability and association agreement with us .
albania is a significant country of transit and origin for immigration into the european union .
firstly , the positive forces in albania need to be supported ; secondly , legal instruments need to be created for immigration from this region , which restrict or stop illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings , as well as the diverse forms of crime associated with them such as illicit employment and prostitution .
anyone who knows anything about albania knows that it is somewhat undiplomatic to name the players in public life there , as much can happen in dealings between countries in the throes of change and an industrialised world that has cast itself in the role of aid donor .
i would particularly like to highlight the predicament of women and children in albania .
the people are , of course , hopeful of better political representation but at present , many people still live in fear ; fear of all kinds of things , fear of the outbursts of violence which flare up now and again .
new life must be injected into the economy and a sound ecological policy must be put in place .
persecutors must be punished .
mrs karamanou , congratulations on the extensive , wide-angled approach in your report .
the situation was exacerbated when action by political forces lavishly supported by the european union resulted in the pyramid scandal in 1997 and robbed the people of their savings and , at the same time , shattered any confidence in the structures and organisation of the albanian state .
the whole situation was made worse by events in kosovo and the nato bombings , which exacerbated the problems in the region .
the first concerns structures and procedures in albania and is even more important following recent events and incidents during the municipal elections , incidents directed mainly at the greek minority living in albania .
mr president , i welcome the fact that an action plan has been drawn up for albania and i also welcome my colleague 's - mrs karamanou 's - committed report .
on the basis of her analysis of the political and economic situation in albania , it is possible for us to reach a better understanding of the causes of the migratory movements and to develop corresponding measures .
the toughest possible action needs to be taken against trafficking in human beings - in particular in small children - and the exploitation of people for illicit work and prostitution .
the main area of focus must not be how the flood of immigrants and refugees may be brought under control , but how conditions in the region can be improved so that people can stay in their homes .
the situation of the kosovo albanians has long been very difficult , and it is a great relief that , at last , their rights are being recognised .
the eu cards programme is of the utmost importance in this situation , as , without a system of administration that functions properly , nothing works .
mr president , when about two months ago i proposed that paragraph 6 of the report should include a reference to the need to improve the security and protection of ethnic minorities and the rapporteur , whom i should like to take this opportunity to congratulate on her work , accepted my proposal , i was of course thinking of the generally poor record of this country in its dealings with minorities on its territory , especially the greek minority .
in all albania 's neighbouring countries - apart from kosovo , where the albanians are in a majority - we have albanian minorities , and we can demonstrate here what the eu 's standards on minorities are .
but the problem is that we have fought for this very point , and neither in this house nor in the european union have we achieved a majority in favour of a system of burden-sharing based on quotas .
since 1991 , albania has been granted a total of 750 million euros in multi-sectoral aid within the framework of the phare programme .
in the last two years the country has been granted an additional 250 million euros in humanitarian aid under the echo programme .
the general affairs council adopted the first five action plans last october , and they concern somalia , sri lanka , afghanistan , morocco , and iraq .
the european council at tampere urged the council and the commission to report on the progress of the working group ' s work in december this year .
the report will discuss the action programme for albania and its neighbouring regions in detail .
the commission is playing an active part in compiling the report .
i wish to raise three points for consideration , which the commission regards as particularly important .
we also want to thank the member states for their input with regard to this work .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 6 p.m .
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market explicitly calls on the commission to resist the legislative pressure to which it has itself objected .
we are helped here by the principle of subsidiarity which , in the view of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , should also be applied when deciding whether to make a particular matter the subject of internal market legislation .
we ask the commission here quite specifically to observe the clear demarcation of responsibilities both between the eu and the member states and within the institutions .
i would ask you to help us to send out this signal , and to vote in favour of this report of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
nevertheless , my group tabled a large number of amendments both in committee and in the plenary , and the fact that it did so is no reflection on the quality of the report , but because we are , after all - particularly on the issue of the scope of the principle of subsidiarity - of a different political opinion .
firstly because , in view of the forthcoming enlargement , we are in especial need of a strong european union if we want to help the future new member states and their peoples , and also if we want to overcome the many crucial tests facing us in our member states .
this is particularly true of the principle of subsidiarity , but it also applies to the quality of legislation .
instead of having abstract arguments about general principles , we should consider the necessity of individual projects more often in this house and we should also invest more time and resources in legislative quality .
all too often , however , we are forced to conclude that this european legislation is packaged in a language which is too technical , too legal and too complex , so much so that this european legislation becomes unusable , as a result of which the intended goal , namely to make legislation in the european union transparent and unambiguous , is not achieved .
i was delighted to note that amendments nos 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 , which i tabled myself , have been approved by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
but here two different traditions of thought come together .
for 2000 years or more people have been safely drinking the water from the burns ( the little rivers ) , and now they are prohibited from doing so .
it is , however , also true that there are some public goods that can be pursued only at the most general level and there are , indeed , aspects of environment protection , aspects of species protection , for example , aspects also of single market law , aspects of law against protectionism , aspects of law to govern the internet , which can only be approached at a level at least as general as the european level .
the principle of subsidiarity , properly understood , points us in both directions : take decisions at the lowest level possible , but acknowledge that the lowest level possible may be indeed a very high level , when general goods are at stake that will be lost unless protected on the same terms everywhere .
it is a constitutional principle and , like all constitutional principles , it has on the one side a political impact when we , the legislator , decide what law to make ; but it has , on the other hand , a legal impact when it comes to the question of how the courts should interpret and apply the law .
for 290 years , however , scots law , which remained a distinct body of law mid-way between the civil law of continental europe and the common law of england and the americas , retained a distinct system but was legislated only from westminster .
but it is important to bear in mind the interests of subsidiarity at levels below the member states , as well as between the member states and the union , and there is no reason at all why the constitutional principle that is at stake cannot be interpreted widely and generously at all levels of this great union .
mr president , i think we should be very pleased with the quality of this report .
in conclusion , i would say that while i find certain amendments very constructive , i wonder about the logic of certain others which seem to ignore the reality and importance of a principle enshrined in the treaties .
let us take , shall we say , six clear examples and look at how they have been transposed in detail , how they operate within the countries , how they are being enforced and make a really clear and transparent assessment of the effectiveness of the legislation , because if legislation is not effective , then we have all wasted our time .
the second paragraph of article 5 of the treaty establishing the european economic community is utterly unintelligible .
the poor commission has made a very commendable effort with the documents ' better lawmaking 1998 ' and ' better lawmaking 1999 ' , in which it tries to be tolerant with this nonsense approved by the governments in the treaty on european union and the added protocol .
the report by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market did not gain much enthusiasm from its members .
the proof is that , of the 17 members on the committee , 8 voted in favour and 9 abstained .
the subsidiarity concept as put forward in the report by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market is a concept which has been exalted to heavenly heights , and therefore as a theological principle it lies beyond the scope of the community .
we have submitted 12 amendments to the report by the committee on legal affairs .
we also support amendment no 13 by the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party .
i drew up an opinion within the committee on economic and monetary affairs which in principle was linked to this report , but it ended up referring to a different report on the slim project .
as regards the rest , mr president , the report deals with other issues that are not on the same level .
codification and simplification are important and laudable issues , but only a matter of good legal technique .
i would therefore ask the commission to provide us next year with a report on the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity with all its consequences , and another report on the implementation of good administrative and legislative techniques .
mr president , thank you for allowing me , as rapporteur for this report , to make one additional comment on amendment no 8 which was tabled by the group of the party of european socialists .
i also agree with the report and views expressed in the discussion here that enlargement will present a major challenge vis-a-vis the quality of legislation , owing to the economic , social and legal problems which the new member states will bring with them .
actually , this screening of the existing acquis communautaire is often a very useful exercise in showing that it is not always necessary to legislate at community level or whether a law is too detailed for legislation at the community level .
i will take a very personal position by saying that there can be new types of governance here , where regulation and self-regulation can be complementary and not alternatives .
there are also other areas of the internal market regulations which are very complicated .
it is not a task for the eu but for the member states to take initiatives in this area .
the legal and ethical framework does indeed vary from one member state to another in line with national traditions and culture .
everyone agrees , however , that it is in the public interest to make a decisive stand against the wave of violence and other content dangerous to young people which is flooding television programmes and audiovisual services transmitted via networks , in order to protect the psychological balance of minors .
this report confirms that it is in the public interest to protect children from viewing excessive television violence and other programmes that may produce harmful effects .
the subject of this report is both highly specific and highly complex .
there are various solutions , but none is satisfactory .
children are also great consumers of the internet and video games .
the approach must include all forms of image transmission .
under these circumstances , it is essential that all the member states comply with community legislation as quickly as possible .
the 1998 report makes a special study of the phenomenon of unemployment and the economic impact of under-employment of women .
moreover , women are often in ' flexible ' jobs ; temporary contracts and low salaries are typical in sectors where women employees are in a majority .
women are also over-represented in ' typically female ' occupations but under-represented in jobs with responsibility and in the professions .
i therefore fully support the rapporteur in urging the commission to pursue its efforts and in particular to strengthen the ' strategic ' nature of its annual reports , by assessing the effectiveness of policy initiatives rather than contenting itself with describing them .
i also think it is necessary to stress that community standards of respect for women ' s rights and equal opportunities should be implemented in the candidate countries even before they join .
since the last electoral farce , fujimori has lost his legitimacy and not only that , but he has lost the political support that he previously had .
at the moment , the question that arises is the future of peru , of knowing whether the country will be able to get out of the difficult situation in which mr fujimori has now placed it .
various political groups have presented a joint draft resolution in which we basically ask president fujimori to go , but to do so in such a way that , through a process of clean and democratic elections , democracy can be consolidated in that country .
therefore , i think that if the european institutions and the european parliament help the peruvian people at this difficult time , we could contribute to the stability of the country and to the consolidation of democratic institutions across latin america .
mr president , peru is currently going through a period of uncertainty , and we all cherish the hope that the current situation will be resolved through a process in which all civil and political rights are guaranteed , which will help to strengthen and consolidate democracy and peace in peru , a country that has suffered 25 000 deaths in the last fifteen years .
the adverse effect that north american backing for him has had on those desires must be neutralised by another influence , a positive influence in favour of human rights and full democratic progress , coming from the european union .
as far as peru is concerned , a number of speakers , and also our resolution , have pointed to the fact that president fujimori ' s forthcoming resignation offers scope for a fresh start .
i feel that this resolution marks a key point in parliament 's political initiative .
mr president , the need for the resolution on the situation in peru has made two things clear .
the first is our frustration at having to return to the vigilance over democracy and human rights in latin america , which was of major concern to parliament in the 1980s and which diminished in the 1990s with the emergence of democratic governments in most countries there .
europe did not take the opportunity provided by the fledgling democracies to promote development and social justice in latin america to help these countries to break their almost exclusive dependence on accumulating capital , which is based on drug trafficking .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the conditions under which elections were held in peru in may this year , were unacceptable .
the european union emphasised only very recently , in a declaration , that president fujimori had seized the initiative with his decision to call fresh elections .
the vote will take place at 6.00 p.m .
mr president , earlier in the day we had a debate about the rights of women in the european union , and we also touched upon the question of the new candidate countries .
i find it completely incredible that such things can still be going on in the year 2000 , and not only do we not intervene , but we cannot , in reality , do a vast amount about them .
what is happening here , however , is in fact even worse .
the international community can no longer content itself with burying its head in the sand , and conducting ' wait-and-see ' diplomacy .
he can be a man of peace .
massoud insists that there is no military solution to the afghan problem .
finally it insists , and this is the essential point , that the european union coordinate its initiatives with those of neighbouring countries to impose a solution whereby peace , stability , and respect for international law and the most elementary human rights can be re-established .
it would do the eu ' s image no harm at all if it were to get a political initiative off the ground in the united nations , with a view to finding a peaceful solution to the conflicts in afghanistan .
the european union must renew its solidarity with all afghan women in their struggle at home and abroad against the taliban regime .
so peace , stability and respect for rights can only be re-established through a political solution .
i do not think that this code will be useful unless it is effective in preventing weapons from reaching the hands of people who are committing very serious violations against human rights , as these people are .
the taliban launched a new military attack on their northern opponents in the middle of the worst drought this poor country has had since time immemorial .
it remains very much to be seen whether this religious barbarism is really sufficient for us to form a closed international containment front against the hosts of jihad conspirator , osama bin laden .
in addition , echo has already made eur 5.7 million available this year for the victims of drought in afghanistan , for mine clearance in the north of the country and for the resettlement of refugees .
between 1991 and 2000 , the commission made a total of eur 400 million available for refugee aid , humanitarian emergency aid and food aid .
with its common position on afghanistan , the european union is supporting the united nations ' special mission in afghanistan , and the efforts to achieve peace undertaken by the general secretary ' s special representatives .
accordingly , the common position roundly condemns the ongoing discrimination against women in afghanistan and other human rights violations that take place there .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 6.00 p.m .
two other community citizens have also been freed today .
nevertheless , colombia is clearly a country that deserves our attention .
i think this is a good time to highlight the need for the european union to draw up a comprehensive policy on latin america which could perhaps prevent these countries from regularly going through the crisis situations that some of them have experienced .
at the moment , for example , there is a colombian priest , oliveiro medina , who is in brazil .
his extradition to colombia could put his life in danger because we have already seen , in the last resolution on colombia that we discussed , that more than 24 human rights defenders have recently been murdered there .
unfortunately , we may have to discuss it again , but i think that the european union should have a fundamental role - as manolo medina was saying - in latin america in general .
mr president , i would like to share in the happiness of my compatriots and fellow members who have talked of their satisfaction at the freeing of the spanish jesuit alejandro matos and of other community citizens .
we cannot forget that , in the past year , 2 075 people have been kidnapped in colombia by the guerrillas , and we must express our concern for the violent situation that it is experiencing , particularly in the north , in the santander region - a jungle region whose border with venezuela is , moreover , very easily penetrated - where the constant clashes between guerrillas and paramilitaries are increasing , with many road blocks and frequent murders .
i therefore think that we should reiterate our support for a peaceful solution to the colombian conflict , in which the actions of the drug cartels have a dramatic influence .
the european union must therefore support the initiatives by president andres pastrana , aimed at achieving a negotiated peace between his government and the guerrilla groups , the far ( revolutionary armed forces ) and the so-called national liberation army .
mr president , the issue of colombia is something that really has not been properly addressed in the european union .
not so very long ago there was a resolution on the situation of the peace community in san jose de apartado .
the commission is deeply concerned about the escalation of violence in colombia , particularly in respect of the massacres perpetrated recently by paramilitary forces in the so-called peaceful communities of san jose de apartado .
furthermore , the commission has proposed organising in brussels a follow-up meeting to the donors conference that took place on 7 july in madrid .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 6.00 p.m .
as several speakers have indicated , i can inform you that after good news from colombia about the release of the jesuit priest , and following agreement between the political groups , the motions for resolutions on this issue are withdrawn .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i think this resolution is important because it refers to a positive decision by the macedonian government , and unfortunately not by all the political forces of macedonia , on the law on higher education which will at last allow young people from minorities , in particular the albanian minority , to study in their mother tongue .
it is regrettable that , at the request of the socialist group in particular , the text of the resolution does not mention their names , and i would like to point out to our socialist friends that their request , made in the name of a more general principle that political forces should not be cited , strikes me as rather unreliable given that , looking at the motion for a resolution on the middle east we are going to vote on today , we are frankly dealing with very specific situations and very specific players .
mr president , i would like to take up what mr dupuis had to say .
we have seen how the difficult situation in macedonia has steadily worsened where the treatment of the albanians is concerned .
all of those who , for a long time now , have been going in and out of this country , have kept up the pressure for this problem to be resolved .
not us , but the government under prime minister georgievski , and also the albanian leader , xhaferi , and above all , the representative of the council of europe , max van der stoel .
in common with olivier dupuis , i bitterly regret the fact that the opposition parties - which formed part of the government up until 1998 and could have resolved the problem - have closed their minds to this draft bill without offering a better solution themselves .
all those who want to see an improvement in the inter-ethnic relations in macedonia , in the interests of stabilisation , must now do their bit to help solve this problem and ensure that a private university actually becomes a reality .
that is a development which , in my view , deserves unqualified support from the european union .
i am proud of the fact , that this time round , the role of mr max van der stoel , the high representative for minorities of the osce , has proved crucial in this issue .
the former president , mr gligorov , was already a shining example of non-ethnic thinking , and the new president , too , has gained the trust of all groups of the population in macedonia .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , my group proposes to support the present motion , which we have also signed , because i believe it is right for the european union to support the solution that has been found in macedonia and which accommodates the albanian population .
i am convinced that this tiny country in the balkans deserves the undivided support of the european union and i trust that an association and stability agreement will be signed before the end of the french presidency .
the funding allocation is provided for in the financing proposal which is to be put forward today - possibly this very hour - to the phare administration committee .
the phare funding made available for the year 2000 under the national programme could also be used to support the university in the coming academic year , i.e .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 6.00 p.m .
we do not consider that everything is a mess in greece ; there are some very good ships and the overwhelming majority of greek seamen are very good at their job .
we have tabled the motion as an expression of our awareness of the issue and our intention to fight for greece to adopt even higher safety standards than the european union in order to correct this negative impression of our country .
three amendments have been proposed by the gue / ngl group , one on shipping registers , one on working conditions and one on an in situ investigation by the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we voted against a resolution on the sinking of the express samina under the urgent procedure the other day because a judicial inquiry is already under way in greece and the greek government had already made a number of statements on what needs to be done .
and they do not only concern greece .
which is why we are impatient to receive the recent decisions finally taken by the council and we are impatient to receive them in legislative form in parliament also , which is why we feel that it would be useful if a parliamentary committee were to go to greece and work with the authorities , agencies and professionals to see where the difficulties lie - it is the most experienced country when it comes to shipping - so that it can assist the european parliament in helping to improve , enhance and introduce stricter legislation for the safety of shipping throughout europe .
as far as my amendment on working conditions is concerned , there is a directive on this and the wording of the amendment is less satisfactory than the text .
and finally , the visit by the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism is not , i think , the answer to our prayers ; it is up to the european commission to investigate and ascertain if a community directive has been infringed , to hurry up with the case law which we want to see in order to make shipping safer and , finally , to do whatever needs to be done and , as i said , to investigate the matter of this famous competition committee .
on behalf of the socialist transport team , i regret the fact that this debate is taking place as an urgency .
this is not a concern solely for greece .
some of us have worked on the issue of ferry safety for many years , not least because other ferries in other parts of europe have also sunk with a tragic loss of life , be it the herald of free enterprise , the scandinavian star or , of course , most notoriously of all , the estonia in the 1990s .
mr president , commissioner , i would like to join the name of my own group in expressing sympathy and solidarity with the families of the deceased and the survivors of the shipwreck and gratitude also to those involved in the rescue operations .
but the issue cannot be localised in this way .
nor are such issues important only for those of us who come from areas where the sea is our highway or our place of work .
this is so , if only because , in the words of the early english poet , john donne , any man 's death diminishes me because i am part of mankind .
mr president , on behalf of my group , i , too , should like to add our condolences to the families who have lost loved ones in this tragedy .
as a member who represents scotland , i feel a particular sadness and concern too about these events .
both our countries have many island communities around our shores and as such the people of scotland 's islands felt a particular sense of shock following the recent events in greece .
we are fortunate in scotland not to have directly suffered the type of tragedy to hit greece but we are only too well aware that our waters are some of the most hazardous in europe .
the fact that the ill-fated ship was 34 years old and was not included on the list of ships which - and this too is wrong - were exempted from the additional inspections required under directive 98 / 18 / ac , is positive proof of the unaccountability of the shipping industry which always finds a way , for which governments and regulatory authorities are to blame , of getting round even these generally inadequate regulations , at the expense of passenger and shipping safety .
the legal framework for shipping in greece and in the european union in general has proven to be inadequate and dangerous and we need new , stricter rules , especially for very old ships , rules without derogations .
on the contrary , innocent victims are being exploited in order to promote shipowners ' wider objectives .
we call on the european parliament not to approve the suspension of cabotage by rejecting the reference to it in paragraph 5 of the joint resolution , on which our group has requested a separate vote , and for the european parliament to approve the involvement of crew representatives in regulatory authorities and shipping registers and the manning of ships in line with the real needs of cabotage by approving the amendments which we have tabled .
mr president , my group would also like to express its condolences to those involved in the samina express disaster .
the quality of both ships and staff under their flags is rather more notorious than renowned .
we cannot afford to make the same mistake again .
this resolution points us in the right direction .
the commission therefore contacted the greek authorities as soon as the express samina went down , requesting clarification of the application of community law .
the commission asked the greek authorities to check if the ships required to adopt the community ' s safety standards by 30 september had in fact done so .
as a result of the check requested by the commission , 60 ships were taken out of service pending proof of compliance with standards .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 6.00 p.m .
situation in the middle east - elections in yugoslavia the next item is the statement by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy on the situation in the middle east and the elections in yugoslavia .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , excuse me for having arrived a little late , for reasons that you are well aware of , in order to make a brief declaration on the two matters on the agenda : the situation in belgrade and in the former republic of yugoslavia in general , and the situation in the middle east .
unfortunately , this evening i am not going to be able to tell you anything positive on either of these two subjects .
as you know , there are currently around one million people on the streets of belgrade and the news that we are getting is that tension is mounting .
from the point of view of the european union , i think that the decision taken by the constitutional court is , once again , a violation of all the basic principles of a country that should have free elections .
the resolution passed by the constitutional court meant , once again , taking away the votes of citizens who have voted freely and obtained a majority .
i would like to say to you , on behalf of the european union and the council , that we consider professor kostunica to be the leader of the majority of the serbian people and that it is him who we are going to support and continue to support .
therefore , we also need to work within the united nations with the countries of the former yugoslavia in order to reach an agreement as soon as possible which , when serbia becomes free , could unblock economic aid through the international monetary fund and the world bank .
i would like to say - as you know - that the presidency has organised a summit in zagreb , which we hope will be a summit in which a democratic former republic of yugoslavia takes part , and that we want to include all the countries in building a balkans region that is stable , prosperous , with a european outlook and with its eyes on the future . ( applause ) this is what i can tell you at the moment .
but i do say to you - and i think that we have to continue to be firm about this - that president milosevic robbed his people of their freedom .
this is what we must say and we must do everything we can to prevent it from happening again . ( applause ) you have asked me to give you information on the latest events in the middle east , and unfortunately , in this case i am also unable to give you optimistic news .
for those of us who have had the very powerful experience of taking part in a great number of meetings over the summer , which resulted in the two sides coming much closer together than they ever have , it is all the more sad still to be seeing people and families torn apart and people suffering and dying in the streets of those countries that we are so fond of .
as you know , prime minister barak did not attend the meeting , and although there is this agreement , which has not been formalised , the situation in the territories is a little better .
i would once again like to make an appeal from this institution to everyone involved and , in particular , to the political leaders involved to make every effort to reduce the tension and , as quickly as possible , to return to the negotiating table , because their positions are not so different that they cannot come to an agreement .
during the elections on 24 september , the serbian people ousted milosevic and his regime .
we have always made it clear that we would radically revise our policy towards serbia if the serbian people voted at the elections in favour of the opposition and , hence , democratic change .
we made it clear - and i should like to reaffirm this - that any decision in favour of democratic change would also be a decision to return to europe .
allow me to say loud and clear : europe unreservedly supports the democratic opposition in serbia .
we call for the voice of the serbian people to be heard and respected and we share its burning desire to see the back of milosevic and his cohorts , who have brought so much suffering and unhappiness to so many , both in serbia and in several other countries .
it will give the serbian people the chance to rejoin the european family of nations and to build a peaceful and stable future together with its neighbours .
the message which parliament must send can only be to urge milosevic one more time , perhaps for the last time , to see the writing on the wall , step down and pave the way for democratic change in serbia . ( applause ) i should like to make a few comments on the dramatic and rapid developments in the middle east .
obviously , this crisis may have dangerous repercussions on the peace process .
after that , the stability of prime minister barak ' s government will be in jeopardy and there will be tremendous pressure on president arafat to declare statehood .
i hope that the meeting between president mubarak , president arafat and prime minister barak in sharm el sheik will mark a return to constructive negotiation on a lasting peace agreement .
israel ' s long-term interests lie in lasting peace .
we must convince the palestinians that the best way of achieving their objectives and safeguarding their rights is to negotiate with israel .
we support the parties in negotiating an agreement in keeping with the principles and references of the peace process set in motion in madrid .
madam president , mr solana , commissioner , i take part in this debate with certain reservations because i do not want this parliament giving the impression that it is sitting in judgment , casting anathema on this or that person when , after such great hopes were raised here only a month ago , we face the dramatic consequences of this new explosion of violence in the middle east .
the forces of israel and palestine are not so lucky .
we all know that is the crux of the matter and we have not forgotten the interesting proposals we have heard on this subject in this very chamber , which deserve our support .
madam president , i think that this joint debate , which is really a topical and urgent debate because we are talking about something that is taking place now , firstly requires a strong declaration with which the three institutions can identify .
we have to face up to and shoulder our responsibilities as the european union , not only regarding the problems that we are dealing with , but also regarding the major issues of world peace .
at the moment , we have the belgrade parliament in flames - we know what setting a parliament on fire means in the context of european history , and we know the responsibility held by leaders that lead their people to disaster .
we are against the leaders who have surely led them to the greatest disaster in their history .
we should not allow the leaders who wish to radicalise the process and the extremist forces to drive it towards disaster , particularly based on a symbolic provocation in one of the most sacred places in the world , an issue we discussed last month in the debate on the future of jerusalem .
madam president , my contribution today is not based on all kinds of theoretical analyses but on my own experiences over the past week , because i happened to be in jerusalem and the gaza strip when the disturbances took place .
on the one hand , there is a state and an army occupying a territory in breach of all international laws and , on the other , there is a people who is tired of suffering and humiliation .
in my opinion , europe can and must do a great deal in this direction , and it must be clear and resolute .
the latest reports i have received - and i regret i may have to leave parliament to go to paris immediately - are that the parliament building has been taken over by the demonstrators in belgrade and the television building is now in the hands of the opposition .
i would like to ask parliament at this critical hour to issue a statement of support for the brave people who have , today , defended freedom and liberty in the streets of belgrade , echoing the support which we europeans gave not many years ago to sustain those people in other capitals who were also fighting for their freedom .
that has allowed us to start a new process in the european union , opening the doors to those countries which , for historical reasons , are not part of this institution .
let us hope that this moment is the moment of truth , and that freedom will be in the streets of belgrade soon .
i have been recalled by the presidency to be in paris as soon as possible .
madam president , the bloody confrontations which have taken place in the last few days in jerusalem , the gaza strip , the west bank and israel are particularly serious , because of the high numbers of victims and also because they have brought renewed talk of exclusion as regards the state of israel , talk that we thought belonged to the past and which is dangerously irresponsible .
the events of the last few days demonstrate exactly how fragile the peace process is .
the palestinian leaders are in a no-win situation .
madam president , the peace process in the middle east is extremely fragile .
such a situation requires tact .
to this end , my group has tabled two amendments to the resolution to that effect .
i call on this parliament to follow the biblical line : pray for peace in jerusalem so that the jews and arabs can live together in peace .
madam president , over the last few days , we have watched the dream of peace in the middle east disintegrate .
madam president , i think the text of this resolution is a perfect demonstration that europe will never act as a mediator between israel and palestine .
once again , there is confusion between , on the one hand , a democratic state doing its best to deal with an extremely difficult situation and , on the other , the institution at the heart of palestine which , under provocation certainly , immediately takes up arms to shoot at the israeli forces of order .
the results of the elections on 24 september have made a democratic change of direction possible .
since 24 september , milosevic can no longer claim to be an elected ruler .
the people in serbia have expressed their will in democratic elections and they are painfully aware of the fact that milosevic has no intention of respecting this will and is thinking only of hanging on to power and maintaining his contemptuous regime .
those who have fought for peace in south-eastern europe for years now and who are familiar with the situation in the region , know how difficult the fight against authoritarian rulers and tyrants in most of these countries was and , in places , still is .
sometimes we expect too much of the new people in power or we expect them to follow our views and our way of thinking , which do not fit in with their traditions and which are irreconcilable with their philosophy of life or alien to their mindset .
i should therefore like to state quite clearly that we shall soon have new contacts in serbia , who may well not understand us immediately or who will perhaps misunderstand us , partly due to inexperience and partly due to the cultural or structural differences which i have mentioned .
if we want to give the implementation of the stability pact a real boost after the imminent change of power in serbia and push the so-called quick start packages through at long last , then we must do more than just talk .
mr dupuis , you have abused this truly historic moment here in order to engage in political demagogy .
secondly , we are in a very delicate position and , therefore , we too trust that there will be fast changes in yugoslavia and serbia , because the situation is not easy in either montenegro or kosovo .
what we are seeing on cnn is more than the fall of milosevic .
serbia is suffering the final pangs of fascism on the fringes of our own union .
there is of course the support of hundreds of thousands of people - the figure of one million has even been mooted - who are prepared at this moment to put themselves at risk in order to support the opposition and to help mr kostunica against the wishes of mr milosevic .
i wholeheartedly support the proposal and appeal by doris pack to reach the decision quickly , in fact as quickly as possible , to lift the sanctions , because these have done far more harm than good .
finally , i would like to propose that a delegation from parliament visit serbia at the earliest opportunity , and once a new yugoslavian government has been installed , so that we , in tandem with this new government , can make plans for the reconstruction of a new serbia .
our group has confidence in our president and in the declaration which we have agreed she should make .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , it is clear that today may well turn out to be a historic day in this parliament , possibly ushering in the end of one of the last buttresses of a totalitarian dictatorship in europe .
the high representative explained this only a moment ago , but what we can do is to selectively lift sanctions by way of sending a message to the serbian electorate .
i hope that the council , in conjunction with the commission , will take clear measures in this respect in the short term .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place shortly .
indeed , while i regret a certain ambiguity in the wording and while i do not accept the failure to mention that there is a multitude of palestinian groups prepared to do anything to wipe out the state of israel and the israelis by means of violence and war , it is my very friendship for the israelis that makes me implore them to end the armed repression against children .
it is also my friendship for israel and my esteem for the palestinians that makes me implore them to do everything possible to achieve peace , even if that means great sacrifice on both sides .
their security and their medium- and long-term existence are at stake and no doubt world peace too , at this moment .
the european parliament wishes to express its total solidarity with them at this historic time , as tyranny crumbles and democracy emerges triumphant .
last week , on 24 september , an extremely important referendum was held , in which the danes rejected the single currency .
the loans are not guaranteed one hundred percent and the council decided in december 1999 to guarantee just 65 % of the final total for loans for the period 2000-2007 .
there is a special guarantee fund in the union budget for loans from the eib .
in 2000 a maximum of 204 million euros can be transferred from the reserve to the guarantee fund .
the guarantee fund can also be used to guarantee the euratom loans to support the development of core industries in non-member countries , although no transfers from the reserves to the guarantee fund have had to be organised for these sorts of loans in recent years .
in december 1999 the council decided the maximum amount for guarantees for the investment bank for the period 2000-2007 , and produced a list of non-member countries that would be entitled to receive aid .
the european parliament adopted a position on the matter in a report by mrs ruhle in autumn 1999 .
mr president , this proposal for a council decision with a view to extending , for the first time , the community guarantee for the european investment bank undoubtedly has a truly extraordinary scope .
given this context and bearing in mind the narrow margin of the loan guarantee reserve , which is set at eur 200 million per year , there is no reason why we should not discuss the priority uses of this margin in coming years .
in july the commission freed 10 million euros to support the repatriation of refugees .
the proposal under discussion contains a target figure of 250 million euros in eib loans for croatia for the period 2000-2007 .
the european union and the european parliament have every reason to support positive developments in the balkans .
this is why it is possible to pick up where we left off in 1995 .
it is therefore only justified that the mandate of the european investment bank will be increased by 250 million .
it is therefore not quite accurate for the report to talk in terms of democratisation .
the environment in the large population concentrations in zagreb , rijeka and osijek is at risk .
the comment which my colleague mr papayannakis made yesterday about admitting serbia to the european union should also apply to croatia .
we have every intention of recognising these democratic elections and the electoral victory of vojislav kostunica .
of course my country , austria , in common with all the other european countries , will also have to do its bit towards the reconstruction of yugoslavia , in tandem with the european union .
but we are all agreed , nonetheless , that the parliamentary and presidential elections that took place in january 2000 have produced a new political climate .
in july , the european commission forwarded the draft of a negotiating mandate to the member states , for them to comment on .
taking account of those advances last may , the commission produced a positive feasibility report on the opening of negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement with croatia and on 19 july recommended opening negotiations .
the proposal before the house would cover up to eur 250 million of lending over the next four years .
thank you , mr fatuzzo .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 6 october 2000 .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting the minutes of the previous sitting have been distributed .
let me mention their names and , in commemorating them , express our compassion and sympathy at this time of sadness to the members of their families : luis portero , chief public prosecutor of the regional court of andalucia , murdered in granada on 9 october ; antonio munos carignanos , a colonel and doctor in the spanish air force , murdered in seville on 16 october ; maximo casado , a prison service employee , murdered yesterday morning in vitoria .
these victims take the number of eta murder victims since the cease-fire was broken on 3 december 1999 to a total of sixteen .
the right to life is sacrosanct .
i would ask you , ladies and gentlemen , to pay tribute to these victims by observing a minute ' s silence , and to lend our support to the authorities and to democrats in spain in their fight against this scourge , a fight that often puts their lives in jeopardy .
tomorrow , this house will discuss this sensitive issue as part of its debate on the biarritz european council , but today i should just like to express my deep sadness at a phenomenon that we find disturbing in the extreme , since it is a tragic illustration of the baleful influence of the extremists on both sides .
the day before yesterday , in spain , heavy rain and flooding was also to blame for the deaths of three people , with three others reported missing .
madam president , in connection with your words on the middle east , i would like to announce an initiative conceived by some of the female members of parliament - nuala ahern , pasqualina napoletano , ana palacio vallelersundi , ulla sandbaek and myself - who have asked other women to go with us to jerusalem to meet with palestinian and israeli women who , in recent years , have never stopped trying to communicate with one other and build bridges of peace .
madam president , last week , the mep karla peijs was attacked in brussels .
madam president , there are more victims of eta , but there are also more victims of the spanish repression : more arrests , more people tortured , new dispersals of political prisoners jailed in the basque country .
our rules of procedure do not admit any points of order at this juncture .
the problem is determining whether a matter is grounds for a procedural motion or not .
i think applying the minute rule is the least damaging solution , in the final analysis , as we have , in fact , seen .
i know that it would not be usual for parliament to hold another minute 's silence - and i would not be so bold as to propose this - but i wanted you to be informed of the development , for antonio russo was a journalist and a very brave man who gave his life for the freedom of information for all people .
madam president , pursuant to the second paragraph of rule 7 ( 4 ) of our rules of procedure , the president is bound to refer the matter to the committee on legal affairs and the internal market before ratifying the decision of the french government .
the council of state ruling , which you will perhaps be invoking as a defence very shortly , was issued by a body which has no jurisdiction in the matter , whereas french law stipulates that only plenary is competent to rule on the subject of the mandate of a member of the european parliament .
in the course of this procedure , madam president , the parliamentary immunity of our fellow member , jean-marie le pen , has been violated from start to finish .
i do not see how you can cite the charter of fundamental rights , as you did a short time ago , without actually implementing it in the exercise of your office .
madam president , between 3 october 2000 and yesterday , at least seven memorials were desecrated , eight people were subjected to racist attacks , four hostels for asylum seekers were set upon , and seven synagogues , jewish cemeteries or memorials were desecrated in the federal republic of germany .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , we have the opportunity to take a great step towards your dream , one i do not , however , personally share .
mr lannoye wishes to speak as the author of this request .
we think , given that for the moment we are at the conciliation stage with regard to the framework directive on gmos , that it would be wiser to await the conclusion of these conciliation proceedings and to deal with this problem once the framework has been clearly defined , which should , in principle , be in the month of january .
the report was adopted in the committee on agriculture and rural development by a good majority and with only two votes against .
it will obstruct the trade in vine material in europe , and so i believe that in the interests of the single market for europe ' s vine propagators , we must vote on our report . ( parliament rejected the request ) relating to tuesday : madam president , on behalf of my group , i would like to move that a particular item be included in tomorrow morning ' s debate , namely a statement from the commission about an interview that commissioner verheugen gave to the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung last friday , 20 october .
mr poettering , in tomorrow ' s debate , every speaker will be free to raise any issue and to address both the council and the commission .
madam president , the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , having deliberated at its sitting of 15 and 16 may , agreed to recommend that the announcement in plenary of parliament ' s confirmation of the removal of mr jean-marie le pen ' s mandate be suspended .
and i am quoting word for word from the letter dated 17 may that you yourself , madam president , read in plenary .
as its name indicates , it is an act of the prince , which does not affect the decree from the french government which , in accordance with the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , must be announced in plenary .
thank you , mrs palacio .
consequently , pursuant to article 12 ( 2 ) of the act of 20 september 1976 on the election of representatives to the european parliament by direct universal suffrage , the european parliament hereby takes note of the notification by the french government of the termination of mr jean-marie le pen ' s mandate .
madam president , this issue arises from a request ( announced by yourself to the house on 17 february ) by the appropriate portuguese authorities seeking a waiver of the immunity of mr pacheco pereira in respect of proceedings in portugal concerning words spoken on a television programme some years ago .
the immunities of members of the house arise under article 10 of the protocol of the privileges and immunities of the european communities .
therefore , under our rules , he enjoys immunity which can be waived only by decision of this parliament .
rather , it is an immunity asserted by this house as a whole , in the interests of preserving the conditions of effective , democratic politics and argument and of enabling this house , through its members , to discharge its function properly in an all-europe democracy .
personally , i was not able to intervene to condemn these actions in that it concerned members of my own party who have always been political targets , and my involvement would therefore have appeared exploitative .
the lisbon summit has given us the opportunity to lend more weight to social policy ; we must seize that opportunity with both hands .
hence our urgent appeal in favour of the introduction of a social scoreboard , similar to the one already in use in the internal market , which details specific measures , expiry dates and deadlines .
this issue provoked intense interest in societies throughout europe and the committee on women ' s rights has taken account in its opinion of the numerous proposals submitted by representatives of non-governmental organisations and civil society in general .
the committee on women ' s rights maintains that the social agenda must focus all its ideas and projects on the qualitative and quantitative participation in the job market of women of all ages and from all social strata and must therefore give priority to any measures which facilitate access to work , the sort of measures to which we refer in our opinion , such as making it easier to combine professional and family lives or other personal choices .
the committee on women ' s rights also proposes that women of all ages and from all social strata should have access to an adequate and dignified system of social protection .
mr president , commissioner , rapporteurs , ladies and gentlemen of the house , let me firstly thank you , mr president , for this personalised introduction .
the european parliament resolution on the social agenda which you are just about to adopt is a very ambitious contribution to our joint exercise .
let me first make some general remarks on the social agenda before covering the various individual areas , in a very succinct way , as befits my allotted speaking time .
the agenda is , of course , in keeping with the lisbon conclusions and the future european charter of fundamental rights , to ensure its effective implementation .
the areas of action listed in the commission communication were also subject to general agreement .
i think we should adopt a pragmatic approach and overcome any misguidedly ideological rifts .
here , too , i noted unanimity on the need to continue and step up the luxembourg process in the context of the objectives established at the european council in lisbon .
let me , at this point , remind you that there will be a european seminar on this subject on 4 and 5 december in biarritz , which i shall be chairing .
on the subject of the equality of men and women , many member states stressed the need for a better coordination of work and family life , particular with regard to childcare .
to stay on this subject a moment , your resolution provides for many measures in favour of women and contains one general objective to include the concept of male-female equality in all the sectors covered by the agenda .
as you perhaps know , on 27 october , i am holding a ministerial symposium on this subject .
you can count on me to make every effort to complete the task successfully and to support the financial commitment of eur 50 million .
i also noted a strong desire for definition of a genuine community strategy on the working environment , particularly concerning health and safety .
we all agree that we should pursue the strategy of cooperation in social protection , paying special attention , as we were urged at lisbon , to the issue of pensioners .
at the employment and social policy council held on 17 october , a great deal of progress was made in the fight against exclusion by defining appropriate objectives for the fight against poverty and social exclusion , which will serve as a foundation for national action plans .
the agenda could also give an opinion on the follow up to be given to the 1992 recommendation on minimum resources .
this is the aim of this report and we have tried to emphasise this in a number of amendments .
in our group , we have always set great store by the social market economy as a basis for everything we do , also within the framework of the european union .
it would have been very wrong on the part of this parliament not to make any mention of these points , but i am aware that we have not yet solved all the problems related to these points .
i think there are some problems left unsolved , but these will need to be addressed in the course of the votes on the amendments .
for us the open coordination method is very important .
i am glad to hear what nicole perry had to say to us today in that respect .
paragraph 14 lists a number of points we think are important .
again i was pleased to hear what nicole perry has said today .
in our view , open coordination is the correct route to go down if we are to secure a social europe .
her contribution has been very constructive , and if my group is sceptical about a number of the main elements in her report , that is because we disagree politically , and that is , of course , understandable .
specifically , open coordination must be open both in the choice of resources and in the way in which everyone concerned is involved .
we have no right to miss this deadline unless we intend to shatter the expectations of all the citizens and the collective movements they have formed , which are the groups most motivated to establish a european union which is a community of citizens .
as far as that is concerned , the directive proposed in the report in order to guarantee the social protection of new forms of working is essential .
mr president , there really is a need for a social agenda in europe after many years of neo-liberal economic policy which has lead to unemployment and social exclusion everywhere , including in my own affluent country , sweden .
finally , i would just add that i am not a co-author of amendment no 35 as stated in the document with the amendments .
from an irish perspective i would like to say to the members of the house that one of the reasons why there has been such strong economic progress in our country is the fact that we have had a system of social partnership in place since 1987 .
however , the european union is catching up fast and the implementation of a broad range of telecommunications directives and regulations would certainly assist in this process .
due to the fact that we have wasted another 40 minutes today on a debate about the rules of procedure , we are now hopelessly behind schedule .
however , the report says something slightly different : whereas lisbon calls for a reform of the social model , it calls for reinforcement ; whereas lisbon calls for liberation of enterprise and more flexibility , the report proposes four new or amended directives and a number of legislative initiatives .
the debate today and in the committee shows that there are major political differences and major differences in ambition in this area , and i think it good that these differences should be clearly brought out .
in some cases , we need the open coordination method .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i feel that the lisbon summit has presented us with a picture of a future europe which cannot , which must not be purely an economic europe , but which must be a genuine political entity .
i would therefore like to join my fellow members in congratulating anne van lancker on her report , which opens up new perspectives , with an approach which aims for greater precision and greater coherence .
moreover , at a time when a great many employees of major european industrial groups face redundancy plans in the context of mergers and restructuring , i think it important for the report on the social agenda to take a stand in favour of taking social clauses into consideration in competition policy , in favour of directives to this end and in favour of a revision of the european works council directive as well as the directive on redundancies .
i would like to raise a criticism in connection with the lack of initiatives produced in response to the new challenges we face in health and safety at work , employee participation and labour relations .
as the rapporteur , mrs van lancker , emphasises , although social dialogue is important , it must produce tangible results .
i would like to particularly stress the benefit which , in terms of employment , can be obtained by women through giving them improved access to employment with guarantees in terms of working time and salary .
i think that there is also a great advantage , if we succeed in getting the directive applied , modified and updated , with regard to maternity leave : for women to receive help during maternity and for maternity to be protected when women have to continue working during that period .
i also think that it will be very positive in terms of helping women to reconcile family and working life .
all these coordinated social policy actions will also help to combat poverty and social exclusion .
we support a pact for employment and social cohesion , a european action plan for employment with a view to boosting the social economy and local employment initiatives , social regulations for new forms of working such as tele-working and new forms of self-employment , the minimum wage , and guaranteed income .
i hope , minister , that in nice the french presidency will succeed in pushing through an ambitious social agenda , since embarking on the construction of a social europe is still the great hope of all our fellow citizens .
the first is that , since lisbon , the new approach to social policy is to deal with it not as a product or by-product of economic policy , but as a policy in its own right which needs to be exercised in tandem with economic policy and the employment strategy .
a set of projects and proposals on employment .
i think that what we are endeavouring to achieve through the employment strategy , by strengthening and enriching it as we progress - because the entire social agenda is a process of dynamic change - is to support competitiveness and entrepreneurship in the european union and flexibility on the job market , alongside security , mobility and new working models , and to support and analyse new social partnership models and the impact of competitiveness and major restructuring on employment and the social state .
the second strand to the social agenda is a set of projects on social policy .
clearly we have a fairly complete legislative system in europe , but changes on the job market , changes in the economy , changes in the environment due to globalisation and the information society are throwing up new requirements .
when we need to deal with these new requirements with legislation , we shall not , of course , have any hesitation in doing so .
the problem is that , because of the legal basis which it has in the treaty , the social agenda does not constitute a set of laws , a set of directives with specific steps for the member states .
and one last comment : the question of sexual equality runs right through the social agenda as regards both the political approach and the content and means .
thank you , commissioner , for your interesting speech .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m .
the commission ' s communication affirms that democracy is a fundamental value of the eu member states , the eea states and the candidate countries , as well as a key part of external relations and development cooperation in the union .
we believe that 40 per cent of the structural funds should be earmarked to focus on women ' s conditions and needs .
the commission ' s proposed measures should be expanded to include reviews of individual access to medical and health care and to social security and pensions , an analysis of shortcomings in the organisation of work and perhaps also a study of the significance of a general reduction in working hours .
what we mean in the committee by strategy is , of course , not the commission ' s opening gambit , but that strategy beginning as from paragraph 2 ( ' the strategy ' ) .
it is therefore important that non-governmental organisations should obtain influence in the course of implementation .
we think it is extremely important to promote a positive image of women and visibility of their work and importance .
mr president , commissioner , we have had the fourth framework programme , and today we are discussing the fifth .
therefore it is still our goal for the next five years to consolidate the position of women in the policies of all member states , both in terms of quality and content .
problems to do with access to social security must be looked at on a case-by-case basis to this end .
the european parliament , the national parliaments and networks must therefore become more closely involved .
this programme is therefore conditional on funds totalling eur 50 million being made available for the period from 2001 to 2005 .
we must invest our energies in the realisation and implementation of the planned programmes , and this must go hand in hand with well-timed evaluations and coordination with other programmes .
women ' s policy must also be a criteria used to assess whether the candidate countries are ready for accession .
the european parliament could lead the way here by setting a better example .
women ' s policy is not - as happens so often - to be incorporated into programmes for minorities .
this could work if the framework strategy were an integral part of the programme , as an annex to it .
there has not been a shortage of good ideas or good plans to achieve equality in the past but their implementation has often failed .
the involvement of local and regional authorities in this process is invaluable .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , no one is disputing that we should strive for greater equity between men and women .
in this respect , in new york , very distinct differences between the european union and poland emerged .
a decision of this type would be like a breath of fresh air to the strange alliances which too closely bind a number of pressure groups to the european commission and to some political groups in this house .
this is something my group will take into consideration in its final vote . ( applause from the uen group ) mr president , we are aware of the progress that has been made in recent years with regard to the situation of women , particularly the legislative progress , but there are still situations of real inequality in everyday life .
the low level of representation of women in political and economic spheres and gender-related violence are two clear signs that structural discrimination against women is continuing .
this programme will undoubtedly help to ensure that the concerns , needs and aspirations of women are taken into account in all policies .
the current situation requires that positive action measures in favour of women be implemented .
the objectives that the programme sets out in five specific areas will help to ensure that all the action taken will be associated with at least one of those areas .
participation in economic life , which women should enjoy under equal conditions to men , employment , which is the basis for all equality and integration , and achieving the 60 % target proposed at the lisbon summit , would also solve other problems .
equality in participation and representation , balance in the decision-making process , greater participation in political life , whatever the process adopted , in order to achieve an increase in the participation of women , until we reach the 40 % figure proposed by the commission .
equal access and full enjoyment of social rights for women and men , which would mean ensuring that the legislation is applied in the social sphere in terms of maternity leave , maternity protection , working time , employment contracts , etc .
equality between women and men in civil life , allowing women to fully enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms .
in relation to this objective we will support the organisation of awareness campaigns and a european equality week in cooperation with the member states , as the commission proposes .
we think that it is very useful to create a web site , not only due to the increasing use of computerised media , but because this will help women to familiarise themselves more and more with this new world from which they must not be excluded .
something that we think is of particular importance is the evaluation of the programme ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i believe we are now discussing commissioner diamantopoulou ' s second tour de force .
with the framework strategy and the new action programme in place , the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities - working under intense time pressure , and restricted to only a few official languages - has now , with a great deal of good will , introduced 60 proposed amendments .
i hope that the president-in-office of the council , nicole pery , will be able to get through the programme in the council in november .
mr president , following the first four action programmes for equality between women and men , it was a good move on the part of the commission to innovate by proposing a community framework strategy for equality and a programme to implement this strategy and make real progress towards equality .
i find the commission ' s new approach to be a very positive one , and the proposal for a decision for the 2001-2005 programme to have been well considered .
it is a very serious mistake , in politics , to mix strategy up with tactics or with programmes .
i am also of the opinion that the appropriations for the european women ' s lobby , budget line a 3037 , should not be included in the appropriations committed for the programme and i hope that the commissioner will favour the amendments that i and the other members of my group have tabled , above the rapporteur ' s own far-fetched amendments .
this programme is an important document for the committee on women ' s rights , which is why it provoked a great deal of interest and , of course , it forms part of the more overall strategy which was discussed with the committee on women ' s rights , the committee on social affairs and the council .
it is the familiar 5-pronged strategy of participation of women in economic life , at the decision-making centres , in social policy , in civil society and in human rights , together with the new model of gender equality for the mass media and education .
we are also able to accept parts of amendments nos 3 , 7 , 8 , 11 , 14 , 15 , 20 , 27 , 35 , 37 , 45 , 50 , 53 , 57 and 58 .
i think that the large number of amendments accepted is illustrative of the meeting of minds between the commission and the committee on women ' s rights .
it is not possible for the entire strategy to form part of the council decision , but i agree that some amendments could be made to the wording of the articles in order to make it perfectly clear that this strategy has been taken into account and forms the basis on which the programme will be implemented .
i really do believe that the strategy behind this programme , the main objective of which is to implement mainstreaming in all policies , is a huge challenge for all of us , both at commission level , with the cooperation between the individual committees which we need in order to obtain a final result , and at national level , with the need for horizontal action in every ministry so that the women ' s policy becomes a horizontal policy .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
it is a splendid piece of work that commissioner monti and his staff carried out last year .
in my report on the twenty-ninth report on the commission ' s competition policy , i expended particular energy on the problems concerning mergers and the repayment of state aid .
the world is not , of course , always so easy for those who have to follow the rules and procedures we are involved in devising .
quite simply , a period of between 25 and 35 months is too long in our global village for getting a case through the courts , and what is very time consuming is having the documents of the case translated .
the other subject i raised in my report is that of state aid and the repayment of state aid which has been awarded unlawfully .
i should also like to thank my fellow meps in committee for the splendid way in which they have cooperated in connection with my report .
i should like to begin somewhat unusually by congratulating the commission on a document it published back in june 1999 - the community rules on state aid , what i might call the " idiot 's guide " to the operation of the state aid scheme .
turning now to the eighth survey : although there has been a reduction in the overall level of state aid during the period concerned , this can in fact be attributed to a minority of member states and , taken overall , ten member states have seen levels of state aid increase .
that is important in terms of the need for transparency .
i would ask him how he sees the debate on enlargement in view of the fact that , on the one hand , we must ensure that we have a common regime across all states within the european union and , on the other hand , it must be the case that some of the candidate countries have particular difficulties in adjusting to new open market conditions .
i would also make the point to commissioner monti that it is important that in the next survey we see a rather larger section on the financial services sector .
i should like to congratulate him on a speech he made in barcelona in september - and i am very grateful to his staff for sending a copy of the speech to me - devoted as it was to his view on the synergy between state aid control and the financial services sector .
for instance , during the period of time of this report , no state aid was given to the coal sector in the uk and yet we all know that significant aid is currently being proposed by the uk government .
it is quite clear that throughout the report itself much attention has been directed not just to the past but also to commissioner monti ' s proposals for future reform of competition policy .
commissioner monti will be very well aware of the concerns that are shared by many people who support his proposals for reform but feel that there need to be answers in relation to issues like jurisdiction shopping , legal certainty , the role of national courts , dialogue between the national competition authorities and the commission itself , as also issues of staffing within the commission .
i will take the precaution , commissioner - in case you should want to point out that this in fact falls within commissioner palacio ' s remit - of saying that i am addressing the commission as a whole .
the support is still there .
but if you carry on in this vein , you risk losing the support of not insignificant sections of the house .
paragraph 16 of mrs riis-jrgensen ' s report talks of increased legal certainty where applications for mergers are concerned , together with more effective and shorter timeframes within which to appeal before courts .
the second paragraph i want to mention is paragraph 18 .
it is of general relevance , but its point of departure is the planned merger between motor manufacturers volvo and scania .
as is well known , the commission opposed this merger , which in turn led to an extensive debate about how the rules of competition operate and how market shares are to be calculated and assessed .
commissioner monti , on behalf of the italian radicals , i too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the two sound reports they have produced , which commend both your work and the work of the directorate-general for competition .
however , we cannot be satisfied with this response if we want europe to become a more competitive and more open market in the future and - dare i say it - if we study carefully certain situations which are developing , in which even the current rules would allow us to intervene .
in many cases , they are companies which operate entirely or in part with considerable legal monopolistic reserves .
by way of example , deutsche post has recently gained control of dhl international and is operating under a monopoly for dispatches up to 200 grams , and then , on a more general note , we could cite the diversification of the state postal companies in other sectors ; edf ( electricite de france ) has taken over companies in britain , sweden and finland , france telecom has taken over orange ; on the italian side of things , enel has taken over infostrada and , still in the italian context , we could mention the various companies owned by local authorities which are behaving in a similar fashion .
mr president , we welcome the modernisation of the competition policy which , in terms of set-up , has undergone little change since the sixties .
if we want to avoid a chaotic and unwieldy bureaucracy in brussels , then we have no choice but to embrace decentralisation .
i am delighted about the special attention being paid to the position of large undertakings in small member states in paragraph 18 of the motion for a resolution .
finally , the book by your predecessor , and former commissioner , mr van miert , entitled " mijn jaren in europa " [ my years in europe ] gives some idea of the blackmail-like tactics which a competition commissioner comes up against .
competition is therefore always a means to an end .
it is a vital cornerstone of our model , in terms of political order , of the socio-economic market economy .
the community ' s competition policy has been given a new european and international dimension .
this is certain , but if each and every one of us is honest , we have to admit that in our public life we have often defended state aid when an undertaking has required it in order to establish itself , for example , in our constituency , or in order to prevent it from closing .
i began by saying this in order to highlight what is associated with some positions and to point out that when we are trying to issue a european parliament opinion on the annual report on state aid , the group of the europe people ' s party tries to conduct an ideological debate in this house on state aid in which it aims to go further than anyone and to demonise all types of aid .
the same occurs when the report insists , following the commission ' s line , that aid for coal did not serve to secure the future of the industry , but in the same paragraph they refuse to accept a sentence , also from the commission , saying that this aid was necessary in order to mitigate the social and regional impact of the restructuring of the sector .
in this respect , it is difficult for us to agree with a report which , although it reflects part of the truth , refuses to include another part of the truth .
however , in shaping european competition policy we have to ensure that it does not limit the opportunities for companies to succeed in the wider , global economy as well .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all let me express my deep disagreement with the excessively liberal , if not actually ultraliberal , tendencies of the report by our fellow member , mr evans .
it is therefore particularly apt to acknowledge three things in this debate .
firstly , the fact that a european charter of fundamental rights has now been drafted , article 16 of which establishes the right to entrepreneurial freedom .
thirdly therefore , i would like to congratulate the commission and its staff on the actions and decisions they have taken in the field of competition law , previously under karel van miert and now under your overall control , professor monti .
firstly , the member states have the right to define everything that belongs under this heading .
and obviously , mr president , although my opinion refers to the commission ' s 29th report on competition policy , it is inevitable at such a time that we will look to the past , but for no other reason than in order to learn for the future .
and also , of course , that the commission ' s policy , which we welcome and support in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , should not be shaped , in this process of decentralisation , to the detriment of small and medium-sized businesses , to the detriment of the citizens .
i will end with a phrase from john rawls , the philosopher of law : inequalities are always justified when they increase the level of the system and support the weakest without affecting fundamental rights .
on the subject of explaining competition policy , i would like to say that i am extremely pleased with the success of the first two european competition days , which were held in lisbon on 9 june and in paris on 17 october this year .
the idea was conceived in this parliament and developed by parliament and the commission .
mr president , in the time available to me , i would like to focus on the following three points : the modernisation of community competition law , the practical application of competition rules in 1999 and state aid .
the annual report on competition policy emphasises the need to modernise the legislative and interpretative framework of community competition law in the areas of both monopolies and state aid .
as far as monopolies are concerned , the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on the matter on 27 september last .
as you know , on 9 and 10 november , the commission and parliament are jointly organising a conference on this reform in freiburg , a conference proposed for the first time precisely in your resolution on the white paper .
my second point is the application of the competition rules during 1999 .
the third point is state aid .
mr president , i would now like to focus on at least some of the specific points raised .
the recourse to external expertise can be useful and already takes place in a number of cases .
it may , on occasion , be uncomfortable , but this is our task .
state aids have their place but it is a fact that in many cases the concrete manifestation of state aids goes well beyond what the treaty allows and what the guidelines allow .
of course , parliament has a very important role to play in this respect .
the financial assistance is currently governed by council regulation no 1969 of 1988 .
this mechanism can be activated either at the request of a member state or under article 119 of the treaty establishing the european community , a provision which remains in force during the third stage of economic and monetary union for the states which are covered by a derogation , currently denmark , the united kingdom and sweden .
the regulation and the proposal for a regulation have merged two mechanisms ( medium-term financial assistance and the community loan mechanism intended to provide medium-term financial assistance for member states ' balances of payments ) into a single facility providing medium-term financial assistance .
therefore , although the increase in convergence of states reduces the likelihood that the mechanism will be used , it must still have sufficient resources to meet the simultaneous needs of several countries , should this be necessary .
the aim of this commission report is to provide a basis for examining the single facility providing medium-term financial support and for revising it , should this prove necessary .
the financial mechanism implements article 119 of the ec treaty , which only remains in force during the third stage of economic and monetary union for the member states which are not participating in monetary union .
thirdly and finally , the drop in the number of member states who could now apply for this form of financial support and the need to cover the potential borrowing requirement of new member states justify lowering the mechanism 's ceiling from eur 16 billion to eur 12 billion .
the economic and financial committee has drawn up an opinion which it sent to the presidency on 14 july 2000 .
the debate is closed .
the vine propagating material provides the basis for optimal grape and wine production as regards quality , excellence and quantity , and establishes these factors over a period of 25 to 40 years .
the trade in , and marketing of , material for vegetative propagation of vines has , up to now , been laid down in directive 68 / 193 / eec dating from 1968 .
accordingly , the commission should publish a community catalogue of varieties , compiled on the basis of notifications from the member states .
the question as to whether genetically modified vines will be granted a permit at some future date , or whether this idea will be rejected by the wine producers and the wine trade , does not form part of today ' s discussion of the directive .
on 5 july , some of these issued the beaune declaration , expressing their great concern at the introduction of gmos into their sector .
finally , we must ensure that the new provisions on genetically modified varieties are in every respect compliant and compatible with existing texts , or texts in preparation , in this field .
the base legislation in force dates from 1968 , a long way back , and a great deal of progress had been made in this sector since then : new materials have been tried out , often using natural methods and sometimes genetic modification .
hence the urgent need for a modern regulation which recognises these new possibilities available to european vine growers and , at the same time , protects traditional varieties of vine .
the determination to amend the directive on the marketing of material for the vegetative propagation of the vine may look like a laudable initiative to update a rather technical text , which is 32 years old .
the very first lines of the klass report clearly stress the value , not just the economic value but also the cultural value , of grape and wine production .
in conclusion , ladies and gentlemen , in order to respect the precautionary principle in both spirit and letter , should the articles and amendments which i have just mentioned not be withdrawn , then , as the wine growers themselves demand , we would have to fall in with the opinion of marianne isler beguin , and the committee on the environment , and vote against them .
the committee on agriculture and rural development has tabled 26 amendments .
the commission is able to accept the majority of them , that is 24 out of 26 amendments , as they are currently worded or with minor changes relating to the way they are worded or presented .
for example , the proposal to recognise the specific characteristics of the genotype , referred to in amendments nos 4 , 12 , 15 , 16 and 20 , will be incorporated by changing the wording of the text .
with reference to the other two amendments , amendments nos 2 and 18 , we can only partially accept them for the reason that certain aspects are unjustifiably aggressive towards other countries - amendment 2 - or because the reference to the commission ' s obligation to provide greater resources should a common catalogue of varieties be compiled - amendment no 18 - is superfluous .
mr president , if you permit , i should like to ask the commissioner to give an opinion on the amendment put forward by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , amendment no 1 .
the debate is closed .
mr gollnisch , i can assure you that procedures have been respected absolutely , in both the spirit and the letter of article 12 ( 2 ) of the act of 20 september 1976 .
as you know , the committee on legal affairs advised me to wait for the decision from the council of state , which i did .
madam president , the minutes state that i spoke on the situation in spain .
informal european council in biarritz ( 13 / 14 october 2000 ) the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the informal european council in biarritz , held on 13 and 14 october 2000 .
let me expand on the issue of qualified majority voting .
i feel that we should also be able to make headway in the field of social affairs , on the proviso that we do not tamper with the principles that underpin the various national social security systems , which gives us some room for manoeuvre .
progress will also be possible in the field of external trade policy , but only when we find a way of dealing with the most sensitive issues on a specific basis and also avert a backdoor extension of community competences .
in the field of justice and home affairs , i am optimistic that a solution will be found concerning judicial cooperation in civil cases .
equally , they are all in agreement that these arrangements must remain open and accessible , that there is no question of moving towards a two-speed europe , that the institutional framework of the union must be respected and thus , in particular , the role of the commission and that of the european parliament , and , lastly , that there is a need to preserve the community acquis , which is to say the internal market and cohesion policies involving closer cooperation .
concerning the weighting of votes , the two well-known systems also remain on the table : a simple re-weighting , in favour of which a narrow , very narrow majority is emerging , or a double majority system , but with alternative options , a double simple or double re-weighted majority , in other words a type of ' demographic safety net ' .
it is clear that we will only be able to take a decision on these issues after negotiations have come to a close ; nevertheless , discussions based on detailed proposals must continue in order to prepare for the final decision at nice .
it also went into greater detail in its work on amending article 7 of the treaty in accordance with the positive guidelines laid down at biarritz .
the preparatory group is to play a full role up until 19 november , the date of the next ministerial level meeting .
i will now turn to international issues , which were also very much to the fore at biarritz .
i will simply point out that , right from the outset , the european union has called on both sides to strive to put an end to the violence , to reopen dialogue and safeguard what had been achieved at camp david , and the biarritz european council called both sides to a summit meeting .
the second event that stood out at biarritz , for the right reasons this time , was the return of democracy to serbia and , more than this , the repercussions of the political changes in belgrade on relations between that country and the european union .
the federal republic of yugoslavia will , of course , very soon benefit from the instruments that have been set in place by the union to cover the entire balkan region , beginning with the cards programme and also the activities of the european agency for reconstruction .
furthermore , the general affairs council confirmed the union ' s intention to contribute to re-establishing navigation on the danube and to actively participate in modernising infrastructures in the federal republic of yugoslavia within a regional context .
moreover , without prejudice to a needs assessment and the coordination of economic and financial assistance to the federal republic of yugoslavia , which are to be the joint responsibility of the european commission and the world bank , the biarritz european council decided to grant the federal republic of yugoslavia initial emergency humanitarian aid totalling eur 200 million .
lastly , and i will end here - this is without doubt the most important decision in the medium and long term - the union has decided to provide this country with a political prospect by proposing that it conclude a stabilisation and association agreement along the lines of those currently being negotiated with the other countries in the same region .
it was precisely with this in mind that president kostunica was invited , as you will be aware , to take part in the summit meeting between the european union and the countries of the western balkans , which is to be held in zagreb , at the instigation of the president of the french republic , on 24 november .
i feel that the important thing was for the union to very swiftly communicate to this country not only a tangible message of encouragement but also , and i would stress this point , the political prospect of its full and comprehensive integration into the european family .
there seemed to be a genuine sense of purpose and , in any event , the will to achieve real reform at nice .
much has been said , in the press and elsewhere , of the rift between larger states and smaller states , or less populous countries .
it is not even , it would seem to me , the central issue in these discussions if one recalls , and this is something that must be remembered and recalled , that ever since the process of european integration began , there has never been a case , either in the council or within the commission , of large countries forming a coalition against small countries , or of small states forming a coalition against large countries .
ladies and gentlemen , we must find a solution to these two issues , which will in fact only be resolved when negotiations are complete , and on which we must reach total agreement if that agreement is to mean anything at all .
with regard to the voting system , we must find a solution which respects - as both the commission and the european parliament have proposed - the twofold legitimacy of , on the one hand , the member states and , on the other , the peoples of europe .
the success or failure of the nice council will depend on the ability of the heads of state and government , and on the ability of parliament and the commission , as parties to the negotiations , to preserve or consolidate the community model .
i am referring here to article 250 , for which some would like to introduce qualified majority voting .
that , ladies and gentlemen , from my viewpoint as someone who , let me repeat in all modesty , is one of the humble workmen in these discussions , is what i say and think is the way to gauge whether or not genuine reform has been achieved in nice .
there is a need to reassure those who are worried that under no circumstances will the sovereignty of the member states in taxation matters be challenged , and to also tell those who have worries that the idea is not to merge social protection systems , especially from the bottom up , but simply to see to it that the common market and the single market run smoothly within an enlarged europe .
naturally , as regards all these areas , where the transition to qualified majority voting is involved , i would like to reiterate our intention to extend codecision where legislative matters are concerned .
i feel that the fundamental demands made by parliament and the commission will be met or honoured , and that on this point we will manage to secure the abolition of recourse to the european council , which is to say the right of veto , along with a lowering of the quorum to one third , or eight , of the member states in community matters .
i also feel that an agreement could be reached on another theme , on article 7 , taking as a basis or as pointers the proposals that the commission itself made to provide for vigorous community dialogue on legal matters , and community and political control of crises situations in which we might find ourselves due to the stance that one government or another adopts with regard to our common values .
we cannot stop there and at nice we will need to envisage ways of addressing the place that this charter is to have within the treaties .
these are issues that we do not have time to deal with thoroughly prior to nice , but they must be raised and would perhaps merit in-depth attention after nice .
madam president , i will quickly mention some other issues , if i may , to confirm or expand upon what the presidency has said .
this is what has caused the european union to radically alter its policy in respect of serbia .
in more practical terms , we announced that emergency aid totalling eur 200 million had been allocated to serbia , and the commission is soon to present a package of emergency measures that will cater for the country ' s priority needs as winter approaches .
the key thing , here as elsewhere , i feel , is to consolidate democracy .
the president-in-office of the council mentioned about the middle east .
the heads of state and government welcomed the proposal from the commission , presented by loyola de palacio , for a global strategy on oil reserves and oil prices .
the president of the commission , romano prodi , took the opportunity to emphasise , above and beyond the content of this communication , the vital importance of russia to this debate , and suggested that we discuss this issue thoroughly at the forthcoming summit meeting between the european union and russia in paris on 30 october .
i welcome the invitation extended to the freely elected president of serbia , mr kostunica , and i would expressly like to thank the french president , jacques chirac , for this invitation , because it signalled that we europeans are on the side of a democratic serbia which is developing in the right direction , and that the newly elected president has the support of the european union .
the group of the european people ' s party and european democrats is all for the enlargement of the european union , but it must also be capable of enlargement , which is why majority decision-making in the council of ministers must become the fundamental decision-making system .
mr moscovici , you said - or this is what it says in the german translation at any rate - that in matters of external trade policy - and this is a good example - there is a need for specially tailored measures .
it would be quite depressing enough if this were to be any prime minister , but it is unacceptable for it to be the prime minister of the very country that is holding the council presidency .
we have to make decisions in nice to avoid endangering enlargement , which is our main priority .
the president-in-office of the council has spoken of the spirit of nice .
we must not kill the spirit of nice with boredom , and we therefore have an essential priority in the remaining 50 days : to bring negotiations to a political level .
the commissioner has talked about qualified majorities and codecision .
our understanding is that the relationship is automatic : anything voted upon by qualified majority in the council must immediately also be subject to codecision with parliament .
i would ask the commission and the council to make a statement on this matter .
in conclusion , madam president , two final comments regarding fundamental matters of external policy .
to this end , i believe that we should apply the same standards to all .
we must find money - and here the council has responsibilities - to assert our community of values and create a balanced , stabilising policy in the balkans .
i believe that we must honour our commitment in one of the most tragic situations we are experiencing today .
i would urge the french presidency quickly to reassess its position on that central point .
mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , the enlargement of the union is a means of increasing stability and safety in europe and of promoting tolerance and democracy .
this would require majority decisions in the council to become the rule , and likewise , codecision for parliament , in agricultural matters , for example .
i welcome the declaration of fundamental rights , but it has to be improved in order to better accommodate the citizens ' expectations , and it has to form part of a european constitutional process .
the development of a credible and democratic europe requires more involvement from the citizens , the regions , the small and large member states , more decisiveness on the part of the commission and a reinforcement of the role of parliament , but especially the will of the commission to play its role on behalf of the union , and this is what we failed to do in the middle east , for example .
israel is entitled to peace and safety but the palestinians , who had to give up a large part of their land for this , are entitled to their own state , as enshrined in un resolutions 242 and 338 .
madam president , president-in-office of the council , commissioner , while progress has been made on closer cooperation and the extension of qualified majority voting , deep-seated disagreement persists , as you yourself have underlined , concerning the composition of the commission and the weighting of votes in council .
there is a pressing need to work out a new design for an enlargement that unites rather than divides , that involves the candidate countries in the work of the intergovernmental conference and pays far greater attention to the social dimension of enlargement .
i would also express the wish of my group and of a good many ngos to see the charter evolve and continue to improve , in order to guarantee , amongst other things , more effective protection and rights for the citizens of the european union , for employees , for the citizens of third countries and for the socially marginalised .
finally , concerning international issues , i , like others here , am keen to hail the return of democracy to serbia .
it is very important , as part of the process that has started , for the union to contribute to the reconstruction , stability and promotion of human rights in all the countries of the former yugoslavia .
madam president , at the biarritz council we saw emerging , from behind the real or supposed quarrels between larger and smaller countries , a different but equally real type of rift between those who want to speed up european integration and those who want to preserve a design for a european union that respects member states and national democracies .
the first group would seem willing to engage in ultrafederalism within a hard core of states , and the referendum in denmark seems to have strengthened their convictions on this .
by persisting in this approach , they would probably cut europe in half , and even more surely would cut themselves off from their own nation .
for the referendum held on 28 september was not simply an expression of the danes ' refusal to be run by a european superstate and their desire to preserve their national democracy .
one might well doubt it , in view of the fact that the most clear-cut decision taken during the biarritz council was to proclaim the charter of fundamental rights at nice .
the commission subsequently informed us , in its communication of 11 october , that the charter could be rendered binding through the case law of the court of justice , still without any say from the national parliaments .
madam president , president-in-office of the council , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i do not share commissioner barnier ' s optimism about maintaining the community system at nice .
we had a second pillar , then we had a third pillar , and now we are in the process of constructing a fourth pillar on defence , while a de facto fifth pillar also exists on economic and monetary union .
while this parliament holds forth on constitutionalisation , the real issue is - and i would stress this - that of the balance of power within the commission .
i cannot agree with you , mr poettering .
this is the only way to restore a true balance between the various institutions of the european union .
we bring the question of the charter of fundamental rights into our nation-oriented arguments , but fail to consider the fact that the future of europe hinges on a commission that is able to represent all its citizens and not the member states as in the past , and one that has not been transformed - along the lines sketched out today - into a second council , where all sorts of haggling become possible and no authentic expression of common european is able to emerge .
the heart of the matter is that the elites who are keenest on integration want to be able to make decisions without broad democratic support .
elites in all the countries are also joining forces against their own voters .
i have very little to add to what commissioner barnier has said , except perhaps to mention a slight difference of opinion over meteorology .
mr baron crespo asked several questions which primarily concern the link between qualified majority voting and codecision .
i would also like to return to the issue of the number of members of the european parliament .
firstly , all the members of the european council are happy with the charter , both from the standpoint of the method used and from that of its content .
it is the first european union document that the citizens can consult without feeling completely alienated from its content .
there remains , of course , the question of its legal power .
i will make no secret of the fact that we are engaged in a process , one in which we are well versed , of having the charter proclaimed by each of the three institutions .
it seems to me that we must adopt a gradual approach to this matter : see to it that this charter is proclaimed at nice by the three institutions and then go into its legal future since i , like many people here , believe that it will indeed be the preamble to a future constitutional treaty , but let us then address this as a constituent issue .
now that we have this charter , let us accept it for what it is , as the stage we have reached today , a first step that is subsequently to be confirmed and developed by taking others , whether in respect of its content or its legal status .
this idea has appeared from somewhere but it is not the position of the european parliament .
in any event , madam president , i believe that biarritz has contributed something very positive , and that is the unanimous approval of the charter .
i believe that now , in this policy of forward movement , the inclusion in article 6 ( 2 ) of the treaty on european union is very important , as there is no sense - and i do not wish to be inconsistent - in the european union deciding not to provide a legal basis in the treaty for the union to be able to adhere to the european convention on human rights and , at the same time , talking in the same paragraph about the interpretation of fundamental rights based on this same european convention for the protection of human rights .
it therefore seems that mentioning the charter in the treaty of nice is something that makes perfect sense .
i therefore believe that with the resolution on which we are voting tomorrow , we are giving a very clear mandate to our two representatives , mr brok and mr tsatsos , to enable them to present a proposal to this end at the nice summit .
madam president , president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i have three comments to make .
the institutions on which the european union is currently based were set up for three large countries and three small countries .
indeed , the magic of the european union is precisely its ability to foster alliances between small and large countries in the common interest .
the second issue that i would like to address is that of decision-making .
i ask you in all sincerity , at a time when the union is providing itself with a charter of fundamental rights , would the heads of state and government reject the idea of decisions in this area being taken on a qualified majority ?
however , in parallel with the debate on qualified majority voting , there is the debate on closer cooperation .
on this count , i consider it insufficient to say that the community method must be safeguarded .
we need to have further debate and focus our thoughts in this respect .
mr mendez de vigo has already referred to the content of article 6 and to the inappropriateness of there simply being a reference to the european convention on human rights .
however , in its communication of 11 october , the commission has just spelt out , quite correctly , the extent to which a judge to whom this charter is submitted would be in a position to uphold its content , and would not be able to act as if this document did not exist .
there is a pressing need to equip the union with a point of reference based on the content of this charter .
even once the present candidate countries have joined , each member state must be able to retain one junior or senior commissioner .
it is highly suspicious that the large member states , which are behind intergovernmental cooperation , would argue in favour of a small commission in which they themselves would not always be represented .
it is difficult but certainly not impossible to reach agreement in nice .
but the french presidency should not act as strangely as it did in " bizarritz " .
concerning the charter , you have just replied in a very well reasoned manner , but my group is nonetheless anxious to say to you that the work must go on .
a second course of action would be to actually establish a timetable at nice and a clear method for rewriting the treaties and incorporating the charter into these treaties .
i have to say that article 93 , in the form in which it has been drawn up by the presidency , does not enable us to address even a straightforward debate .
the wording of article 93 becomes all the more critical considering that , once the first wave of new states has joined the union , it will be all the more difficult for us to progress towards qualified majority voting .
everyone knows that nothing will come out of the nice summit , because there is too much disagreement between the various governments of europe .
it was also a wasted opportunity for the europe of fundamental rights , which was supposed to be a beacon for the world .
indeed , the charter falls some way short of the texts already in force .
in reality , it once again proves that this europe is being constructed against the interests of its peoples , and this is what tens of thousands of protesters will be saying in nice on 6 and 7 december , and i hope that many of us will be there with them .
in the second that remains , and since we are talking about fundamental rights , i would like to express my indignation at the silence and complicity of most of the member states and institutions with regard to the ongoing massacre of the palestinian people , with whom we should be showing a little more solidarity .
we all know that enlargement of the union cannot take place until decision-making procedures within the key institutions are reformed ; however , such a reform process must be fair and balanced .
it must protect the position of smaller member states within the union .
it is clear from the debates that have been taking place across europe , including those in biarritz , that larger member states are seeking , in part , to bully smaller member states to reform the european union in line with the direction taken by larger member states and in accordance with their wishes .
let us reflect for a moment on the ratification procedure for any newly revised european union treaty .
if the european treaty accepted at nice completely dilutes the influence and representation of smaller member states , it is going to be very difficult to sell it and secure approval for it in referendums in these three countries .
decision-makers within the governments of the larger member states should remember that seeking the approval of the citizens in a referendum is not a mere technicality or a rubber-stamp operation .
one has to convince the citizens in these countries of the clear merits of any new european treaty .
it must strike the balance between ensuring that the enlargement process can proceed and ensuring that smaller member states retain a strong voice in the decision-making procedures of the european union .
mr president , president-in-office of the council , commissioner , the informal council meeting at biarritz raised hopes that in-depth consideration would be given to the preparation of the nice summit , which is to lead on to the reform of the european institutions .
we would like to see similar zeal for action in the field when there are disasters in europe , such as the storms of december 1999 or the sinking of the erika .
four revisions in fifteen years have not improved matters , and now we are expected to believe that a charter or a constitution might do something to change things .
in conclusion , let us begin to do together those things that we can do well or better in line with our peoples ' wishes .
mr president , president-in-office of the council , commissioner , on the subject of the situation in the middle east , two months ago this house was unanimous in praising the commitment to peace shown by avraham burg , the speaker of the knesset , and ahmad qurie , the president of the palestinian legislative council .
bringing all its weight to bear also implies not contenting ourselves with advocating a renewal or intensification of economic aid under the pretext that only by raising the standard of living in the region will we be able to help establish a lasting peace .
we still have no agreement on the modus operandi for the european commission , on how votes are to be weighted in the council , on what should be done about the principle of qualified majority voting or on proportional representation in the european parliament .
in other words , today - i repeat , today - there is a risk of the so-called amsterdam left-overs becoming nice left-overs unless we take some decisive action right away .
of course it is , on occasions , clear from the debate that this institution is viewed in some quarters not as the answer to the flexibility which europe needs but as a sort of future defence to safeguard their interests vis-a-vis future members of the european union .
but we still have time , miracles do happen in politics and i personally am keen to see a few happen in nice .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i am extremely concerned that this affair of the charter of fundamental rights will have a negative effect on public opinion .
the charter of fundamental rights has been accepted in its entirety by the informal biarritz council .
it is a sign which could contribute to turning the public increasingly against the european project , as , sadly , is already happening even in the candidate countries .
the committee on constitutional affairs has decided on a method and a timetable which mean that the inclusion of the charter in the treaties is a decisive step towards the constitutionalisation of the union .
re-weight the votes in the council , but not in accordance with the principle of double majorities .
if they were to be complied with , the large countries ' demands for increased power in the council and parliament would upset the whole balance within the eu and mean that the small countries would have to pay for the whole cost of enlargement .
mr president , in our plenary sitting in september we experienced and shared moments of optimism and hope with abraham burg , speaker of the knesset , and ahmed qurie , president of the palestinian legislative council .
the unity of action at a given moment has made it possible for the work and prestige of one of the member states in this area to be used to the benefit of all .
mr president , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , i would like to say a few words on the subject of the middle east and yugoslavia , also in connection with contributions from previous speakers .
following the summit meeting in sharm-el-sheikh where all parties involved were present in order to find a way to freeze the violence and to re-open the dialogue between barak and arafat , we established that it is very difficult - even if , for a fleeting moment , it seemed as if it were possible - to halt the violence .
nevertheless , we all know that there are huge numbers of citizens , both in israel and in palestine , who are simply finding out - in the hope of peace - how tough life is as long as peace has not really been established .
at the same time , we would ask the council to operate in the same spirit during the budget negotiations for 2001 .
i would advise mr baron crespo to ask his italian colleagues to explain to him why they are in government in italy with an openly communist party and why they are preparing to go to the political elections with another openly communist party , the communist refoundation party .
the package of measures proposed by the commission with a view to increasing energy efficiency and saving energy , is therefore constructive , and likewise the investigations into cartel problems with the oil companies .
we should also take a look at our own situation , however .
with that in mind , parliament is expecting the nice summit to take a step in the direction of qualified majority voting in those areas where taxation policy is disrupting the proper functioning of the internal market .
the council presidency wants to abolish the cooperation procedure and replace it with the consultation procedure .
at the very least , it must be possible to agree on the detail of a common position on these matters in nice .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , a little while ago , you made the point that parliament would not issue a statement on the number of seats in the european parliament .
i would urge you just to read through the leinen-dimitrakopoulos report , in which parliament has taken up clear positions , not only in respect of the distribution of the seats , but also on the weighting of votes in the council and the composition of the commission .
the increase in intergovernmental initiatives , the official demands raised , and the options discussed in connection with enhanced cooperation , are all initiatives that could ruin the truly successful nature of the european union .
mr president , in this debate on the informal summit in biarritz , i would like to focus on the igc and the charter .
like mr brok , i would like to stress here once again that one commissioner per member state is absolutely vital to give each country a place in the european executive .
the union cannot develop as a community of 27 members if we cling to the notion that it is mainly a system of intergovernmental cooperation in which the union ' s bodies are merely responsible for implementation or control matters in a very loose way .
already there are numerous examples of how just one country can obstruct matters which almost all countries consider to be important .
the charter of fundamental rights proudly conveys what european values are , but it is fruitless to create an artificial controversy with regard to its rapid and binding constitutionality .
under every option , each country will have at least one commissioner .
in the latter case , the question we must answer is when will this principle of a rotation which treats both larger and smaller states on a strictly equal basis come into effect .
whatever the scenario , there will therefore be a major reform of the way that the commission operates , and i feel that we must in the coming weeks make careful use of the time still available to us in order to assess the implications of each option before taking a decision at nice , the aim being , i would repeat , to preserve within an enlarged europe the effectiveness , credibility and if possible collegiate nature of the commission .
the national governments participated fully and have all approved this text .
it is one of the points that have been broached in the discussions and i honestly feel that , beyond what we are able to achieve in the negotiations themselves , anything that the european parliament itself can quite clearly say on the way it is to be structured after enlargement will be very useful to us because it will enlighten our work and the work of the member states .
finally , a word on the biarritz spirit or climate : mr dupuis has surely misunderstood what i said .
in any case , i spoke of purpose and determination .
i do not yet know whether we will achieve real reform at nice , and one sufficient for a union that has 27 member states and quite clearly may subsequently have many more , provided that the democratic process in the balkans is consolidated and strengthened .
in any event , the commission has its place and is striving to secure genuine reform .
i simply said , mr dupuis , that success or failure , genuine reform or inadequate reform , would be assessed on the basis of whether the community model - which does indeed , mr moscovici comprise the three institutions you mentioned , but others too - would emerge from nice weakened , intact or strengthened .
i have specifically mentioned some of the factors that will enable us to ascertain immediately whether the reform is sufficient or not .
the extension of qualified majority voting and codecision to real issues , the preservation of article 250 in its current form , the place and role of the commission in closer cooperation , in respect of more than just the first pillar : these are some of the factors that will allow us see straight away whether we are talking of success or failure .
the vote will be taken on wednesday .
let us not criticise commercial europe too much , i speak as a socialist : it provides greater wealth to all of us .
peace , prosperity , democracy and justice are values which , each in their own way , virtually all the members and the groups in parliament , and the majority of elected representatives and political groups wish to see achieved by europe and for europe .
today , we have just experienced one of the last democratic revolutions in europe , that of october 2000 in serbia .
democracy in europe is in good health , but european democracy is in a bad way .
one in two european citizens did not vote in the elections of june 1999 .
one in two of my students does not know who romano prodi is , although they are almost all quite clear on michael schumacher or monica lewinsky .
let us at least agree on this objective , and if we do agree , then let us state how to achieve it .
if we want to achieve it , then we can , all together , citizens , members of parliament , and governments of the european union .
mr president , the issue i wish to discuss is far more specific , even though it must be said that some of us consider reinforced cooperation to be the panacea to combat the hypothetical freezing of the european integration process , supposedly inevitable due to the increase in the number of member states following the next round of enlargement .
there are also , mr president , those who see reinforced cooperation as the ideal instrument with which to create an " a la carte europe " or a " variable geometry europe " , in which community solidarity and cohesion would be diluted in a range of various intergovernmental cooperation schemes .
europe cannot be brought closer to the citizens by making its structure more and more complicated .
second , we must maintain the unity of parliament and the commission and increase their participation in both establishing and developing reinforced cooperation .
the experience of the maastricht social protocol and of economic and monetary union show that the participation of all the members of these institutions is technically feasible and politically advisable , and preserves the coherence of the system and the participation of all european citizens in decisions that affect them all the time .
dividing up legislative and executive powers or replacing them with a greater number of bodies , secretariats , parallel chambers and the like does not lead to democracy but to inefficiency .
third , we must increase the scope of reinforced cooperation to include the common foreign and security policy and the common defence policy , which in the last few years have been crying out for a community channel to avoid the dispersion , slowness and inefficiency that end up transferring decisions and the task of solving specifically european problems to the united states of america .
fourth , we must eliminate the veto and reduce the minimum number of member states required to set in motion community reinforced cooperation .
mr president , i have had the satisfaction of noting that the proposals presented recently at the intergovernmental conference coincide in the main with all or some of the criteria i have set out .
finally , i must thank the committee on constitutional affairs and its chairman for the kindness with which they received my report , the contributions which enabled me to improve it and the tremendous support that was given in the final vote .
with this support , mr president , and in the hope that our resolution will be useful in this final , decisive stage of the intergovernmental conference , i ask the house to vote for this report .
this resolution draws the attention of the community organs and the forthcoming nice intergovernmental conference to the issue of the islands , of island status , or rather the principle that island status as such should be recognised as one of the criteria for community intervention because of the actual conditions which any form of island status involves for the regions concerned .
in effect , the text which was officially issued by the intergovernmental conference - which i will pass on to commissioner barnier and to the minister , should your legal offices not have already done so - clearly shows that this was the opinion actually issued by the intergovernmental conference but that it was mistranslated into other languages .
there are sections of the treaties which establish the principle of cohesion and there is declaration 30 which , in affirming and applying the principle of cohesion in this context , reads , and i quote the exact wording : " the conference recognises that island regions suffer from structural handicaps linked to their island status , the permanence of which impairs their social and economic development " .
it is not , therefore , on the basis of a number of languages or a number of translations , but on the basis of a fundamental principle of the charters , of the treaties , that is , the principle of cohesion , that we call for the islands to be recognised as such , as the possible beneficiaries of specific interventions and specific attention .
initially , you planned three reports : constitutionalisation of the treaties , reinforced cooperation , and the ceiling on the number of members of the european parliament .
i note , at any rate , that for today , the last matter has not been referred to us , and i am in complete agreement with commissioner barnier .
i shall now return to each of these points , but only briefly in order to leave time for the debate .
this is a point i already made in presenting the results of the informal council meeting in biarritz .
i think it is safe to say that the conclusions of your rapporteur - as indeed he noted - for the most part echo the concerns expressed by the member states in biarritz .
we are , once again , all agreed that the institutional framework of the european union should be respected .
qualified majority voting is indeed the prime objective at the intergovernmental conference .
i do realise the value that parliament places on its own indivisibility , and indeed i understand it perfectly , but then , for that very reason , how is it possible to justify parliament ' s issuing a legitimate opinion as if it were a conventional codecision or consultation situation when in fact probably half , or perhaps two thirds of all the member states might not be involved in this reinforced cooperation ?
objectively speaking , this is a real matter of principle which makes it impossible , in my view , to adopt exactly the same rules within each area of reinforced cooperation as within the european union , and this is all the more true in the very specific and delicate area of foreign security and defence policy .
i now come to the constitutionalisation of the treaties .
i could confine myself to thanking mr duhamel , and to simply pointing out that his text contains a quite unwarranted attack on president prodi - his were , of course , humorous comments - or even observing that he has not said exactly how he wants this constitution to be arrived at .
firstly , simplification and clarification of the treaties .
next , the creation of a proper reference text clearly establishing the principles and objectives of the european union and , finally , the distribution of competences between the various decision-making levels within the european union .
this is a question which parliament , to give credit where it is due , asked very early in the day , as soon as it took office , in fact , in july 1999 .
while a constitution can provide a response , at least in part , to the questions i listed , it is a project which in real terms goes a lot farther than that .
firstly , simplification of the treaties .
in particular the european institute in florence , at the commission ' s request - and i expect michel barnier will mention this - did so with a result which i would describe as extremely honourable , despite the particularly arid aspect of the exercise , but i do not have the impression that the authors of the report , to which mr duhamel refers , indeed - managed to avoid a certain contradiction between the objective of clarity and the objective of legal certainty .
an exercise of this type must not upset the balance or cause us to regress , in the name of the principle of subsidiarity , as some parties seem to wish .
theses issues , or at least some of them , will no doubt come up for discussion very shortly .
this will not necessarily be in the form desired by your rapporteur because , as i said earlier , not all member states will necessarily be ready , but an extremely useful contribution will have been made .
i think we will see matters more clearly in nice , and i think it is the results of the igc - for we must not underestimate the impact that the outcome of the igc will have on our ability to go further - which will determine whether we shall be able to look into the opportuneness of opening up new working areas and , if appropriate , of defining working methods and a work schedule .
one last brief word on the way in which a text of this type would be drawn up , when the time comes .
and now , one very quick word about the island regions .
this question was raised as early as 1997 , i believe , after the new treaty was adopted but before it was signed .
as i said , given the lack of information available to us , i am not in a position to deliver a definitive opinion on this matter today , but the presidency is , of course , willing to help clarify the matter by , for instance , referring the matter to the council ' s legal department within the council and even within the intergovernmental conference .
i would therefore like to assure mr segni that , like him , the commission itself has noted certain discrepancies between the various language versions of article 158 of the treaty .
and that , i understand , is what you are lamenting .
this is the case of many islands that i visit within the scope of objective 1 or the cohesion appropriations , due to the very fact of their socio-economic situation and in accordance with the criteria laid down by the structural fund general regulation .
mr segni , i have decided to instigate a study on the socio-economic situation of the islands , in order to assess the situation and get as precise a diagnosis as possible of these island regions and i myself will present the results of this study , which i hope will be available during the second half of 2001 .
i will say in passing that these results will complement the debate that i also intend to instigate in 2001 on the cohesion report , an important public debate in which the european parliament will take part and which will enable me to prepare the guidelines for the future regional policy for the period 2006-2013 .
as for the idea you suggested of introducing this debate into the igc , frankly , mr segni , it seems to me that , taking account of the scope and difficulty of the other subjects on the agenda of this intergovernmental conference , it would be more appropriate to rectify the text according to the procedures laid down by the vienna convention on the law of treaties , as in previous cases of clerical errors in the articles of treaties , in order to standardise the different language versions of this article quite precisely .
i would now like to discuss , in turn , the two reports presented by jose maria gil-robles and olivier duhamel .
after this igc , mr gil-robles , i think the instrument of reinforced cooperation will be more clearly defined and , if i may use this expression , more ' workable ' in relation to the current content of the treaty of amsterdam .
for the commission , there are five essential components of reinforced cooperation .
it must take place , as you said yourself , within the institutional framework , with a suitable role for each institution : that is the first point .
it is important to ensure that this reinforced cooperation remains within the framework of the european union and respects the roles of the institutions , in particular the commission and the european parliament .
furthermore , mr gil-robles , most of the delegations to the negotiations in which i am participating agree that the future treaty should recognise an enhanced role for the commission and the parliament in implementing reinforced cooperation .
i am therefore prepared to support the request in jose maria gil robles ' report aiming to enhance parliament ' s role and i support the idea , at least , of replacing the consultation of the european parliament in the first pillar with its assent .
that is why , yesterday , when we were discussing various points , i put forward a number of amendments which will usefully serve to specify or enhance the role of our institutions and the place allotted to them according to the pillars , in the context of implementation of reinforced cooperation .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , reinforced cooperation cannot , and must never allow the acquis communautaire to be unravelled in any way .
i would remind you that the procedure can be simple , with a qualified majority and the withdrawal of the veto , because we want to maintain strict conditions .
i completely share parliament ' s wish for the fundamental principles to remain unchanged , but i have noticed , mr gil-robles , a willingness on your part to make some of these conditions more flexible , as in point 11 of your resolution , and i would like to exercise a certain amount of caution in this respect .
finally , we all agree that reinforced cooperation should not - i have said this before and i will say it again - become a characteristic feature of the european union .
it must remain a mechanism that the member states may use only when all the other possibilities for progress on the road to integration involving all members have been ruled out or are not feasible .
reinforced cooperation must not , therefore , become the universal cure-all in order to conceal our weaknesses .
to be more specific , i think that reinforced cooperation cannot be designed as an alternative to qualified majority voting , which remains and will always remain , in the view of the commission , the main subject under negotiation .
we think your report provides an excellent starting point for the discussion of the constitutional work that we are to begin immediately after nice .
mr duhamel , you will undoubtedly agree with me that if nice is not successful , there will be no room , or at least no credibility , for consideration of the future of european integration , at least within the current framework .
i think that nice could be the beginning of the next stages of discussions on several related topics .
i thank you for the positive reference you made to the study by the european institute in florence that we commissioned , and i also noted mr moscovici ' s constructive approach in this respect .
this is a good piece of work that constitutes a basis available for the future exercise of reorganising the treaties .
the second point is the legal nature of the charter of fundamental rights , a matter which , as the presidency said , may well not be answered in nice .
i know that olivier duhamel ' s report essentially slots into a wider perspective : that of a constitutionalisation that would go way beyond the current institutional framework and which would only be completed in the long term .
it seems to me , however , that we need to clarify the current legal and institutional situation first of all , which is what your report also proposes as a first stage : " a reorganised treaty " , as you say in point 9 of your resolution .
like you , mr duhamel , i think the european union should be equipped with a clear , simpler fundamental text .
it is essential for european democracy , our primary reason for uniting , as you reminded us , that the citizens have access to a constitutional treaty , a text which , according to the wish of vaclav havel , all the children of europe can learn at school without difficulty .
the important work carried out at our request by the european institute in florence , to which i have referred , shows that it is legally possible to assemble all these essential elements in a single text comprising a small number of articles .
the word " constitution " does not scare me , i even think i have used it in your presence , ladies and gentlemen , at the very beginning , when i was not yet an official member of the european commission .
i raised the issue of the constitutionalisation of the treaties during my hearing before the european parliament , prior to the investiture of the commission .
i would like to assure you of my personal availability and even my passion , mr duhamel , which will be at least equal to yours , in order to participate in this work .
i also agree that we should move as far away as possible from the references that you yourself rejected , in the context of our work on this subject : on the left , those of karl marx and , on the right , as you said , those of joseph de maistre , even if the latter , i would like to say , while stating my disagreement with a number of his writings , at least had the merit of being from savoy .
in any case , ladies and gentlemen , one thing is clear and must remain so : none of the questions we are discussing can constitute a condition to be achieved prior to the enlargement of the european union towards the mediterranean , baltic , eastern and central european countries that are currently candidates .
the commission is not in favour of calling another intergovernmental conference before the first round of enlargement .
the reform of the institutions needed to enable this enlargement to take place must be carried out now and there must be no nice leftovers , in any case definitely not the amsterdam leftovers .
the conclusions of the european council in nice could announce , in the way you recommend , a mandate and timetable for the work on matters of a constitutional nature .
again , i think that any discussions after nice should be open to all , to the member states and the candidate states , in a suitable form that we shall have to define .
finally , i think that the commission , which has participated actively in the work of the charter and which is participating actively , as is proper , in the work of institutional negotiation , will , after nice , also have to play its part in the collective brainstorming that is related , quite clearly , moreover , to another exercise which we have undertaken on governance .
it is ready to do so by means of a report to be drawn up following nice on these matters of clarifying competences and simplifying the treaties , which could be available before the end of the treaty of nice ratification period .
as for the continuation of the work , i will also say that the report you presented , mr duhamel , contains many very interesting ideas .
you mentioned the idea of a referendum to be held simultaneously in all the member states .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the duhamel report has provided us , the european parliament , with the opportunity , barely two months before the european council in nice , to reiterate our position on the further development of the european union , and in so doing to take account of the need for the eu to become primed for action on the enlargement front over the next few years , as well as to demonstrate to our citizens the medium-term prospects of the european union .
what this european constitution will also need to do is clearly establish the distribution of tasks between the member states and the european union , inject the dynamism of european integration into those areas where it is badly needed , and provide for joint action to be taken , for example in the sphere of foreign and security policy .
reinforced cooperation must therefore respect the principles set out in the treaties and be conducted within the single institutional framework of the union .
on the other hand , it must not constitute a barrier to trade or precipitate splits in the common market , breaks in the links of solidarity and cohesion between the member states or , as commissioner barnier has said , an unravelling of the community acquis .
the implementation of reinforced cooperation must not result in new bodies being set up to swell the ranks of the european institutions .
the rapporteur is quite correct in firmly stressing the need for the commission ' s powers of initiative and the participation of parliament , at least on a consultation procedure basis , to be the norm whenever there is reinforced cooperation .
following the nice summit , which we all hope will be successful , it is important to take this next step in order to create a more democratic union .
naturally , people must be enabled to participate in this work , especially citizens of the candidate countries which will hopefully be members in a few years ' time .
a constitution is a matter for the whole of europe .
the european council is violating this fundamental consensus within europe , by refusing to incorporate the charter of fundamental rights into the treaties , make it legally binding and denying the citizens , whose rights are being infringed , access to the european court of justice .
the question we must ask ourselves today is whether we want a europe ruled by princes or a european democracy .
our parliament , as the only institution of the union to have democratic legitimacy , has a big responsibility to lead the way in this respect .
the nice summit must pave the way for this by granting the necessary mandate , initiating a procedure and setting a timetable .
mr president , the duhamel report , which i shall be discussing , once again raises the european parliament ' s old idea of giving europe a constitution .
the main aim behind this , which is not clearly stated in the resolution , would be to lay down for europe , even for the fundamental texts , majority-style collective decision-making procedures , completely different , therefore , to the unanimous council votes or the votes on ratification by member states used today to amend the treaties .
these collective procedures would for once and all establish a supranational power in europe .
but a backward step is always backwards !
according to paragraph 4 , we need a constitution because the treaties are " unreadable and invisible " .
paragraph 8 of the constitutional resolution states that europe ' s constitution must be adopted , and i quote , " with no risk of the process being blocked " and , as paragraph 7 of the duhamel report says , " without a referendum " there can be no democracy .
the report by the committee on constitutional affairs argues that differentiation can only be deemed to serve any purpose if it is conceived as a process which allows for exceptions to the rule .
however , it seems to me that the report inclines in the opposite direction .
i have always rejected any form of differentiated integration for reasons pertaining to legal theory , but also for pragmatic reasons , believing that it would allow a majority of member states to determine the direction of policy , and deny countries joining at a later stage any codecision rights in these matters .
when the intergovernmental conference in amsterdam inserted a special reference to islands into article 158 on economic and social cohesion , adding the word " islands " as a special category under the regions which deserve particular attention within the context of cohesion policies , we here in the european parliament who had first fought for this development thought that it marked the start of a new era for island regions .
unfortunately , our hopes were dashed because , in addition to all their other problems , islands are paying the price for the different translations of the point in question .
firstly , with regard to the method , which is a tired , lifeless procedure according to public opinion , which in fact marginalises the other institutions of the european union and in which governments are victims of their own labyrinth .
in spite of everything , however , at least the agenda has included one very important point , reinforced cooperation , which must be seen as an incentive for progress and not for dispersal or creating cabinets .
this will help to stimulate european construction beyond this igc and possibly in spite of this igc .
we need a constitution for the european union , and this constitution must start right now by including the charter of fundamental rights in the new treaty in nice .
mr president , i shall focus my scant sixty seconds on the report by mr duhamel , which is a good report , because it has the courage to state things clearly and the eloquence of our rapporteur just now has finally convinced us .
yes , it is in the greater interest of the democracy of our continent to have a new founding text and a clear and effective constitution .
i represent the constituency which contains the two largest islands in the mediterranean - sicily and sardinia - and i can say in all honesty that both islands are severely disadvantaged in structural terms precisely because they are islands .
i hope the treaty of nice is achieved and seen to be a success and that closer cooperation is included as a welcome move in the direction of flexibility .
mr moscovici , will the nice treaty really be welcomed and acclaimed in warsaw , prague , budapest , tallinn and ljubljana ?
i hope that the french presidency will find a more efficient and imaginative way of assuring the candidate countries and the public throughout europe that we are not only addressing important technical issues but above all the political necessity to provide our continent with stability through the certain and guaranteed enlargement of our european union .
even if all the demands of the french presidency for qualified majority voting are accepted , large areas of political cooperation will remain uncovered .
reinforced cooperation is therefore a de facto requirement , not as an ideal solution , it is certainly not that , but as a practical solution in a time of need , of vital need .
mr president , two brief observations regarding the reports on our agenda today .
two years of work should be more than sufficient and we hope that the majority of parliament will support amendment no 37 .
the second point concerns the difference between the first and second stages .
nevertheless , i would like to concentrate on the duhamel report , to emphasise how much progress the idea of a constitution has made , including in this house .
everyone , or almost everyone , who has spoken has done so in support of this idea and we feel that this is already a huge victory .
we , of course , take the view that this is the purpose of the constitution , over and above the already positive purpose of clarifying the treaties .
my last point is that , when it comes to drafting the constitution for real , the key point will be to determine wherein the legitimacy of the european authority lies , and , in our opinion , it must come from the peoples , from our citizens and their representatives , the european parliament and perhaps the national parliaments .
mr president , i should like to say a few words to the effect that , in my opinion , the duhamel report is a truly excellent document , which makes quite substantial progress .
in portugal , for example , we did not hold a referendum to approve our membership of the european community or to approve the maastricht treaty .
the excellent reports by mr duhamel and mr gil-robles gil-delgado expertly point the way on both issues : improved intelligibility of the treaties , a constitutional framework , fundamental rights , delimitation of competences , constitutional state , democracy and separation of powers ; no superstate in europe , a new method of developing the treaties .
the same goes for the report by mr gil-robles gil-delgado .
mr president , the european union ' s achievement has been to interpose a european-wide transnational legal order between national and international law based on the treaties which , as the european court of justice has pointed out , have some of the characteristics of a constitution .
the proposals in the duhamel report which do that must be welcomed .
the second part of his report is more ambitious and hence contentious , questioning the mechanics of the way in which the treaties - and hence the quasi-constitution - is changed .
mr gil-robles ' proposals on reinforced cooperation are , on balance , positive .
the european parliament has tabled important proposals .
the debate is closed .
the vote on the resolution on the oral questions with regard to the status of the islands will take place on wednesday .
if so , it seems to me that is a matter that may require of an amendment in the rules of this house .
that is making matters too complicated , mr howitt .
i will not take this into consideration . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) mr president , i am sorry to rise again on a point of order but i do so to challenge the ruling you made earlier , not in the context of the debate but in the context of the rules of this house .
if there is an equality of votes and if the honourable member did vote , even though her machine did not work , then the procedure in any parliamentary assembly is that amendment falls .
therefore , in those circumstances i want you to tell me which part of our rules suggests that your ruling is right , when clearly it is not .
there was therefore more than one surplus vote .
otherwise it would make things quite impossible : when we have a very tight vote with only a difference of one or two votes , there would be people jumping up all over the place saying their machine did not work , they did not vote , or whatever .
the vote was clear .
the result was established by the president .
with regard to the passage on work experience in companies , apprenticeships , joint work / training contracts , it aims to make more widespread a practice already adopted by many states which consists , on the pretext on helping workers or unemployed young people , of making a partially or completely subsidised workforce available to employers .
recommendation for second reading - trakatellis ( a5-0268 / 2000 ) i welcome the ep ' s adoption of the trakatellis report as it provides for the setting of high standards of quality and safety of blood and blood derivatives .
eu citizens are entitled to expect the highest level of safety with blood products .
before passing judgement , the french court of appeal and the council of state ought to have notified the court of justice in luxembourg that the question had been referred for a preliminary ruling .
this is the legal course that our parliament should follow in order to be consistent with its principles and its legal code , as well as with the letter and the spirit of the treaties .
kla report ( a5-0195 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted against the kla report .
we all know that the directive on material for the vegetative propagation of the vine needed amending , because huge changes have taken place in the 32 years since it was drawn up , both on the market and in the technical and scientific area .
it is proposed to allow material for the vegetative propagation of the vine which meets reduced specifications to be marketed when temporary difficulties arise without , however , specifying what these difficulties might be .
yesterday , the proposal of the greens and social democrats to postpone the decision on the kla report until a broader decision-making process on the genetic manipulation of plants is in place , was turned down by a narrow majority of this parliament .
riis-jrgensen report ( a5-0290 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the riis-jrgensen report , although it does have some shortcomings .
in april 1999 , the commission proposed a wide-ranging reform of the community system of competition with regard to the application of article 81 ( prohibiting agreements between undertakings ) and article 82 ( prohibiting the abuse of dominant position ) .
the rapporteur generally welcomes the proposals in the commission white paper on this subject but is apprehensive of the possible implications of the reform , which aims principally to decentralise the implementation of competition rules .
while we would not all agree with every aspect of eu competition policy , it has certainly been a successful policy over a period of 43 years and it has helped to prohibit the abuse of dominant positions by companies within the european union .
the uniform application of eu competition laws throughout the eu must be paramount .
therefore , i welcome the call by the rapporteur to the european commission to provide additional guarantees concerning the application of competition law within the member states .
this will include , in particular , involving the european parliament more closely in drawing up and implementing competition policy and monitoring the quality of legislation on competition within the various member states of the eu and the applicant countries to the eu .
whilst i could agree with the requests for increased transparency regarding state aid , and for the european parliament to be informed about the follow-up to aid approved by the commission , i called for state aid to be maintained in order to develop social cohesion , research and innovation or environmental protection , to offset gaps in the market , to promote european competitiveness in relation to other countries and to confront the fraudulent machinations of competitor countries , such as korea in the field of shipbuilding .
state aids have been traditionally used by member states as instruments of industrial and social policy .
notwithstanding the move towards greater deregulation within the european union , state aids can still play a constructive role in achieving social and economic progress .
i am a member of the european parliament for the constituency of connaught / ulster .
this whole region has been classified as an objective 1 area for the seven-year period 2000-2006 .
for the purposes of this grant aid , a small and medium-sized enterprise is a company that employs less then 250 people .
permission to grant such grant aid to companies setting up in the objective 1 region serves a very positive economic and social purpose .
i welcome the recent statement that radical changes are now being implemented by ida ireland in terms of attracting more jobs to the objective 1 region in ireland .
ida ireland has been reorganising that focus so as to win half of all new jobs from greenfield projects in the objective 1 region over the coming three years .
this re-focus is beginning to take effect and given time and the implementation of the government ' s programmes on infrastructure , as outlined in the national development plan for the period 2000-2006 , the ida is certainly confident that it can reach this target for new projects in the objective 1 region .
i believe the regional state aid guidelines which have been put in place to help job creation in the objective 1 region can be implemented in their entirety and will redress regional imbalances which exist in ireland and elsewhere .
i drew the attention of the european commission to this issue in july 1999 , and received a positive response .
i therefore agree with the thrust of paragraph 4 which supports this viewpoint .
i am less pleased with the idea expressed in paragraph 2 that state aid should not go up .
my final verdict is therefore positive .
the principle of market rules as the sole form of social regulation tends to do away with man and his creativity as individuals in the economy and the productive process and , more importantly , is indifferent to man ' s prosperity and only interested in the welfare of enterprise .
they also know that the economy is being restructured and the public sector sold off not for their benefit but in order to support big business and increase its profitability .
the intolerable situation being forced on workers by the choices made by large companies and the eu is already causing widespread reaction .
so here we are in october 2000 , with only a short while to go before the financial framework for budget 2001 is agreed .
the figures that we , as parliament ' s committee on budgets , are to put before the house , will not meet - and of course we are a little disappointed about this - with the unanimous support of all our fellow delegates in the specialist committees .
parliament , at any rate , understands that the payments to be included in budget 2001 are a function of the commitments entered into in previous years and those we hope to enter into in 2001 , and we must determine them accordingly .
if you look at the budgetary implementation schedules for headings 2 , 3 , 4 and 7 , then you will note that only an average 8 % of all commitments are covered by payments .
therefore , in principle , we have raised the payments in headings 3 , 4 and 7 to a level that will ensure 25 % coverage of the commitments to be entered into in 2001 as regards individual budgetary lines .
above all , we want there to be sufficient money available under heading 1b , for the development of rural areas .
there must also be adequate funding available for those areas whose aim it is to achieve a knowledge-based society and to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the european union .
the level of unemployment in europe is still intolerably high .
three years ago , we launched our employment initiative , which involved helping small and medium-sized enterprises to acquire risk-bearing capital .
we want to carry on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises , so that they are able to benefit from our common market in exactly the same way that larger companies do .
we should therefore continue to deploy this instrument , albeit using simplified procedures , as proposed by the commission .
we have therefore earmarked almost eur 120 million for two budgetary lines combined .
we accept that 400 new posts need to be created , but would attach certain conditions to this .
in addition , naturally we take the view that it would not be acceptable simply to create 400 additional jobs , i.e .
for more than a year now , parliament has been urging the council to work with it on negotiating stable and secure reconstruction aid for the balkans .
in drawing up its preliminary draft budget in june , not only did the commission endeavour to secure the financing for the balkans aid , it also tried not to cut back on the other areas of external policy too heavily .
we will make appropriate sums available for those of our budgetary lines concerned with democracy and human rights , cooperation with non-governmental organisations working in the interests of the poorest countries , our cooperation with latin america , south africa and asia .
we will adopt the council ' s proposed level of funding for meda , and would urge the council to join us in using the flexibility instrument , should it become apparent in the course of next year that meda requires more money .
but let us return to the balkans .
on thursday we will adopt a trim , but sensible budget .
secondly , we must be prepared for the major challenge of enlargement in terms of staffing ; in other words , we must now create the financial leeway we need to be able to rise to this challenge when the time comes .
following in-depth discussions with the relevant institutions and the honourable members , whom i would like to thank most sincerely for their excellent and friendly cooperation , i am able to put before you today a draft budget that fully accords with these three guidelines .
the committee on budgets supported the necessary increases in funding in the sphere of information technology , especially with regard to data security - where there is a great deal of room for improvement in this house - as well as the increases needed for enhancing the security of our buildings and of all those who work there , and for the legal service .
in fact we are directly linked to the interest rate set by the european central bank , which is why we have proposed that we should pursue the buildings policy already adopted , because this will help to release us from this burden of interest as soon as possible .
i would like to take this opportunity to expressly thank the vice-president , mr gerhard schmid , who is responsible for budgetary issues , for his constructive cooperation .
i believe that we succeeded , in the course of the conciliation negotiations between the bureau of the european parliament and the committee on budgets , in submitting a well-balanced draft .
however , i would also like to take this opportunity to make the council aware that the council budget is a purely administrative budget too .
the council would do well to ensure that that is how things remain in future , particularly in the sphere of foreign and security policy .
the economic and social committee must get its own house in order if it wants to avoid jeopardising its continued existence for good .
we believe this to be an important proposal , in terms of achieving environmentally sustainable , modernised steel and coal production in europe , and also with respect to the financing of these areas and the conversion measures .
the social measures were cut from eur 31 million to eur 29 million in the council ' s proposal .
in 1999 , for example , only half of the allocation was actually used .
this seems odd to us because there will still be an operational budget in the second part of 2002 , and so we are calling for a review of the relationship between redeployment aid and social aid .
another important point i would like to make is that once the treaties have expired , we no longer want a separate regime for the ecsc , but feel that it should be integrated into the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions .
i hope , therefore , that you will forgive me if i avoid the latter and describe my short report as extremely important , and express my pleasure at its almost unexpected success with the commission and the council .
the report was unanimously approved by the committee on budgets a few weeks ago and , to date , no amendments have been tabled .
since 1985 - and i did say 1985 - the parliamentary committee on budgets has been trying to ensure that european parliament procedures take account of the financial impact of the resolutions voted upon in plenary .
and then , a long time ago , 15 years ago , a working party was set up for that purpose .
i think i can say that , essentially , the problem is the tremendous increase in legislative work in the european union as a whole , in particular the exponential growth of legislative codecision , the huge range of legislative decisions taken in parallel .
in accordance with current legislation , the commission currently sends us , together with its drafts , a balance sheet that includes what is basically a multiannual proposal for budgetary programming corresponding to the draft .
that is why , when the ministers for foreign affairs meet and take some commendable decision or other , such as helping kosovo or serbia , the least of their concerns is whether there is enough money to finance the decision and whether it has to be taken from elsewhere , such as aid to development in africa , the meda programme or the promotion of human rights in the former soviet union .
when a legislative conciliation takes place on social , cultural or environmental issues - and the commissioner will recognise that i am right - the commissioner for budgets , the ministers for finance and the members of the committee on budgets all pray that a financial blunder will not occur .
the agreement reached in july involves an increase in the information contained in the financial statement .
in future , all new proposals must be accompanied by an assessment of their compatibility with the financial perspective and its needs with regard to lists of budgetary posts .
the commission is implicitly required to consider at the beginning of the legislative procedure whether it has the necessary human resources and whether the proposal might require a revision of the financial perspective or a redeployment of previously approved programmes .
the poor implementation of some programmes can also be explained or justified by a lack of staff .
commissioner patten thus proposes reducing the cost of the meda programme and simultaneously increasing its staff by 25 posts .
we believe that this declaration should be included in the interinstitutional agreement , but in any case , i would like to say to you that it only makes sense within the context of an interinstitutional agreement with a financial perspective .
i shall end , mr president , by thanking the other institutions for their diligence in the handling of this joint declaration .
parliament reiterated its suggestion during a three-way dialogue that took place halfway through the portuguese presidency and concluded with an agreement at the first conciliation presided over by france in july .
this is a real record , which i hope will now lead to greater consideration of the financial constraints in our legislative activities .
thank you , mr colom i naval .
it is now my great pleasure to welcome to this chamber a brand new minister from my country , who will be speaking in his capacity as president-in-office of the council .
the examination of the budget is an important aspect of parliamentary life .
the budget is also of major importance to the governments and citizens of europe since it sets out europe ' s broad guidelines for action in 2001 .
this partnership between the council and parliament on budgetary matters should be developed further .
i hope that the budget discussions can continue in the same vein so that we can come up with a budget for the financial year 2001 that equips us with the resources to meet the priorities and challenges that await the european union .
you are called on today to decide on a budget that has already been amended at first reading by the council .
i would therefore like to quickly remind you the broad guidelines that the council wanted to give to the 2001 budget .
i would also like to emphasise the council and parliament ' s common objectives , which will in my opinion enable these two arms of the budgetary authority to arrive at an agreement .
on 20 july , the council adopted a draft budget that marked a 2.8 % increase in commitment appropriations and a 3.5 % increase in payment appropriations compared with the budget for 2000 .
this increase is also far above the inflation rate forecast by the commission for 2001 of plus 1.8 % , which shows how committed the council is to financing european union policies .
this draft budget constitutes a balanced and realistic compromise .
the council did not opt for a tactical first reading , which would have consisted of adopting a hard-line stance on stabilising community public expenditure and resulted in contentious budget negotiations with parliament .
the council voted through , at the first reading , the appropriations that it felt to be justified for 2001 , without taking into consideration any tactical concerns would only work against the objective of the sound allocation of appropriations , which is the objective that the community institutions must pursue .
the council ' s draft budget enables the financing of all the european union ' s policies and priorities to be reconciled without imposing an excessive burden on the member states , who i would remind you are currently in the process of bringing their own public expenditure under control .
in identifying margins for manoeuvre , notably as regards the ceiling set for heading 3 and heading 4 , it is also been the council ' s intention to let parliament , which has the final say on non-compulsory expenditure , set out its priorities without calling into question the council ' s priorities .
first of all , the draft budget provides for priority aid to the balkans , which will receive 30 % more funding than in 2000 .
the eur 614 million that the council have voted through will enable us to finance all the foreseeable requirements , and include an initial aid package to serbia totalling eur 40 million .
the council has shown that the granting of significantly higher amounts to the balkan region was in fact possible without a revision of the financial perspective .
furthermore , the council shares parliament ' s view that the revision proposed by the commission cannot be envisaged concerning another issue , namely that of expenditure on agricultural markets .
all the programmes that have been adopted jointly by the council and parliament conform to the programming that they decided upon together .
i am keen to point out that the ' employment ' initiative constitutes a priority not only for parliament but also for the council , following on from the conclusions of the feira european council .
we must , of course , first wait for the commission ' s assessment , but will do our utmost to reach an agreement with parliament at second reading within the context of a more general compromise on the budget as a whole .
concerning the cap , or heading 1 , the significant 6.3 % increase in appropriations is the result , as i have said , of the berlin agreements reforming the cap .
concerning the cutback of eur 225 million in the field of rural development , the council ' s position is a response to the cumulative lags in national rural development plans .
the commission acknowledges these lags and there can be no doubt that they will have major repercussions on the implementation of appropriations in 2001 .
expenditure under this heading has nevertheless been increased by 4.6 % , reflecting the fact that this second pillar of the cap constitutes a priority .
i would remind you that the 2000 budget provided for a very high level of structural funding .
the commission proposed a margin of eur 137 million below the ceiling , but the council has upped this to eur 208 million .
the council is not trying to vote through additional cutbacks , but rather to allow for a sufficient margin of appropriations with a view to the adoption , between now and the time the budget goes to second reading , of amounts that cover the council and parliament ' s shared priorities , such as the employment initiative , to which you are firmly committed .
the council has not deemed it desirable to take up the programming proposed by the commission , either in the proposal for a framework regulation or in its preliminary draft budget for 2001 .
the council considers that an allocation of eur 614 million , which translates as a very major increase of 30 % over 2000 should cover the needs of this priority , particularly since aid arrangements are set to change from emergency aid , which is by definition for rapid use , to more structural forms of aid , the commitment of which is generally more complex .
the meda programme and the euro-mediterranean partnership as a whole quite clearly also remain a priority for the union .
in fact , the level of commitment appropriations for the meda programme is not an issue , since the delay in payments under this programme now runs to over eight years , as commissioner patten has stated .
an increase in the actual payments made under the meda programme and the implementation of projects in the field will depend on just such an improvement .
however , i am anxious to stress that meda is only one facet of the euro-mediterranean partnership , which also comprises other measures and which calls for reciprocal efforts to be made by the partners .
regarding the commission ' s letter of amendment which proposes , as has just been mentioned , the creation of 500 new posts in 2001 , the council has voted through the creation of 400 new posts .
we must hold further discussions on this subject with parliament after the first reading is complete .
before you reach your decision on this draft budget , i would like to emphasise that the council and parliament share a number of objectives on which agreement could well be reached by our two arms of the budgetary authority .
i will give you two examples : amounts outstanding and financing of aid for the balkans .
these two issues often feature in discussions between parliament and the council and if we are not careful could well generate tensions between the two arms of the budgetary authority .
this means that there is quite a time-lag between the authorisation to commit the expenditure and actual payment , which is quite natural in the case of infrastructure financing and multiannual programmes in particular .
the solution would thus be to significantly increase the level of payment appropriations in order to pay all the commitments outstanding .
this solution is doubtless well-intentioned , but would be ineffectual .
the community budget does not need any more payment appropriations .
raising the level of payment appropriations by more than the 3.5 % decided by the council would in no way help to reduce the ral .
i would like this house to take these comments into consideration .
i now come to aid for the balkans .
it is also a priority of the council and parliament , which have just reached agreement on an emergency aid package worth eur 200 million .
i think i can safely say that the union was efficient in its financing of all the requirements connected with the balkans in the year 2000 , as the community budget enabled us to swiftly respond , among other things , to the acceleration in the timetable for reconstruction in kosovo .
concerning the forthcoming programming of heading 4 of the budget , the council wants to see a serious assessment of requirements being performed with a view to validating , or invalidating , the political valuation of the cards programme .
inasmuch as this is possible , the council is keen to base the level of multiannual global budgetary funding , including that granted under the 2001 budget for reconstruction in the balkans , on a technical needs analysis .
this question was also asked in the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 .
i sometimes hear it said that the council is so committed to the berlin financial perspective that it will not even hear talk of a possible revision .
others say that the commission and parliament see the revision as having a symbolic value in respect of the balkans and as proving , moreover , that the berlin financial perspective is inadequate .
the council is taking a calm approach to the revision of the financial perspective .
at this stage the council does not see the revision of the financial perspective as being a prerequisite for financing reconstruction in the balkans .
the budgetary resources that the european union allocate to the western balkans will have a symbolic value , but not as a result of the financial perspective having been revised or not .
the draft budget already incorporates the many results of the consultations between the council and parliament .
discussions will now continue between your institution and the council and the commission .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mr president-in-office of the council , budgetary policy always requires foresight , and today we are discussing budget 2001 , the budget for next year , and so together we must decide what demands there will be on european policy and the european budget next year , which we will need to fulfil , and what challenges we will face there .
the programmes for the new assistance period 2000-2006 have now been approved for practically all the member states , and so we can expect , and also hope , that the first projects of the operational programmes can be implemented next year , which will require an appropriate level of funding to be made available in the budget .
i would draw your attention to the challenge we face in the sphere of research policy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises , in light of the fact that when they met in lisbon , the heads of state and government set themselves the ambitious goal of making europe the most competitive , knowledge-based economic area in the world , which also places demands on the european budget .
but i might also emphasise that the proposals , or rather , decisions of all three institutions in respect of budget 2001 , fall below the threshold set during the financial planning in berlin .
i would like to thank the council for their positive vote on this issue .
if we want to improve - and that is our aim where the performance reserve is concerned - then of course we will need those posts .
the greatest challenge facing those responsible for budgetary policy , in the year to come , or rather , at the present moment , is that financing must be secured for new foreign policy tasks , and this mainly concerns the financing for the necessary stabilisation aid in the balkans .
i would remind you that the financial plan for the balkans agreed last year only made provision for eur 1.85 billion for the entire period up to 2006 .
i might also point out that last year , for instance , we had a long debate here with the council , in connection with the reconstruction measures for kosovo , on whether we stood any chance at all of putting in a good performance out there .
above all , by increasing aid for kosovo in this way , before the end of this year , it will be immediately apparent - and this is a very important political message to my mind - that the european union does not take the view that because there has now been a changeover of power in serbia , we should cut back on aid to kosovo .
the question of financial aid for serbia next year and for subsequent years , is now on the table of course .
eur 8.1 billion were earmarked for the meda programme in the berlin financial planning .
the commission does not believe that all the reconstruction aid required for the balkans should be carved out of the funds for the meda programme .
we have various instruments at our disposal for budgetary policy , in the event that unforeseen tasks should arise , or even additional requirements .
i am aware that parliament is of the opinion that the flexibility reserve should be employed forthwith , in order to offset the cuts in the meda programme .
of course revising the financial perspective is not an end in itself , rather , the commission proposed this method with a view to financing the necessary expenditure in foreign policy , so as to do justice to the challenges we face .
this aid package of eur 200 million will enable us to take the necessary measures on the energy front , before the end of this year , in order to supply the people with the heating energy they need this winter , relieve the emergency situation that prevails in many areas of health care , and also ensure , for example , that the children do not sit freezing in their classrooms through the winter , by financing any necessary repair work here .
we have already this year exceeded the foreign policy budget by 400 million .
circumstances have also revealed the need for the so-called ' rapid reaction facility ' , as proposed by the commission .
i should therefore ask both the council and the committee on budgets here in parliament to think in terms of foreign policy and not only in terms of budget strategy when they concern themselves with foreign policy .
whilst these are drawn up pursuant to article 248 ( 4 ) of the treaty for the purpose of discharge , we actually think there is some value in our committee and the committee on budgets looking into them and looking at how the money is being spent in the current year in areas where the court of auditors found problems in the past .
so the committee would like to recommend to all the specialised committees concerned to take into account the results of those evaluations .
finally , i am delighted to note that , in the field for which my own committee is responsible , no less than four new budget lines have been proposed for our approval .
the first of these is for the implementation of a pilot project intended to fund an information campaign within the fifteen member states against the criminal scourge of paedophilia .
the second is for aid to victims of human rights violations in need of treatment in specialised institutions .
the committee on budgets did not see fit to adopt my own committee ' s proposal to increase the resources to be made available to the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia based in vienna .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the vote in the committee on budgets was rather unsatisfactory from the point of view of the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
in many member states , where the commission operates information bureaux , it is not possible to reach a broad cross-section of the public through holding conferences for experts .
in view of the fact that euro banknotes and coins are to be introduced in 2002 , i cannot accept the decision to place the appropriations from prince in the reserve in financial year 2001 .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the european union is a community of law , because european law is observed and upheld .
the european court of justice takes care of that .
in particular , we will again recommend , at second reading , that 60 new posts be created at the european court of justice , and , in addition , that the necessary funding be made available in the budget .
mr president , this is my first year in the european parliament and i have been struck during the course of this budget debate by the contrast between rhetoric and delivery .
last year when we were discussing the budget , we had politicians in the member state governments who were posturing on the issue of renewable energy , whilst at the same time proposing major cuts to the save programme in this parliament .
but here we are yet again , twelve months later , in a situation in which ministers from member state governments have come out of summits , preening themselves over their ambitious targets for research , while the draft budget prepared by the council makes total cuts in payment appropriations in the research subsection of the fifth framework programme of no less than eur 100 million .
the proposals put forward by our committee and supported by the committee on budgets are much better .
we in the committee on employment and social affairs favour a thrifty budget too , but not in this way .
i am therefore pleased , and would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the committee on budgets , and above all , the general rapporteur , for the fact that we have at last worked out a joint plan on how to rectify the difficulties attending this draft budget , with a view to accommodating parliament ' s clear priorities , and boosting employment and social cohesion , although , naturally the situation still leaves something to be desired from the point of view of the committee on employment and social affairs .
the commission ' s attempt to abolish this initiative showed out-and-out disregard for the political will of lisbon and the priorities of this house .
naturally we would have liked to see the action programmes for combating social exclusion and discrimination better provided for , so as not to disappoint the expectations that article 13 has given rise to amongst the public , and also the ngos .
the first is the decision by the committee on budgets to place into reserve the monies agreed for the life programme .
this was an astonishing decision and left many of us feeling that this whole very important programme had simply become a football in a game between the budgets committee and the commission .
it demonstrated that those bodies did not recognise the importance of this programme to the environment .
it is the duty of the house to give those points their support in the vote this week , to demonstrate its continued commitment to protecting the environment and improving public health .
the budget per farm in the united states is currently three times higher than in europe .
the committee on fisheries , which shares with the commission the principle of budgetary stringency , has accepted the limits set by the latter in its preliminary draft and has indicated its concerns in certain budget headings .
the committee on fisheries has approved another amendment increasing the appropriations intended for controlling and observing fishing activities in community and third-country waters .
we have criticised the shortcomings and the marginal role of the commission in the policy of control and observation and we therefore believe that this policy must be supported with an increased budget .
whilst employment may be the european union ' s priority policy , fisheries , as another economic sector , cannot remain on the sidelines .
the cfp is tremendously important for maintaining employment in the peripheral regions , which are very dependent on fishing .
it is better to support activities that already generate jobs than to have to invest vast amounts later in creating new industries .
in conclusion , i would particularly like to mention a topic with regard to which parliament is to issue its assent .
i am referring to the fisheries agreement with morocco .
the committee on fisheries asks that line b7-8000 should include an entry of eur 125 million to cover the financing of this agreement for the year 2001 .
the commission in its executive capacity must negotiate with weighty arguments to achieve a reasonable agreement with morocco and the council and the governments concerned should provide a political impetus for this negotiation .
the community should also be investing in developing travel and tourism , particularly by supporting smes in this field .
the committee on budgets has also shown understanding with regard to financing the media plus programme , which is still open .
the success of audio-visual production is an important part of the european strategy .
hopefully this problem will be put right in plenary .
we in the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport tried to remain within the framework of the proposed appropriations , so that we ourselves might set out priorities as befits a special committee .
i wish , furthermore , to turn our attention to the financing of euronews .
it is by means of the budget that the european parliament can and must realise its ideals .
year after year , parliament has protected the interests of the poorest countries in the european budget , and with moderate success , even though this has not been enough .
there is no doubt that europe has to make a crucial contribution to the reconstruction of serbia , and hence to the stabilisation of the balkans .
europe , operating today as a global player , must also do its bit to reduce poverty .
even in 1999 , as much as eur 3.2 million was refunded to the member states because those resources were not spent .
this is where we hit a major problem .
the budget which we determine mutually , must reflect our priorities , must be understandable to the citizen and must also be goal-oriented .
these will indicate what sectors , in our eyes , must benefit directly from the aid which is budgeted for in certain regions .
mr president , on behalf of the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities , i would like to ask for parliament ' s support so that the amendments already approved by the committee on budgets may be definitively approved .
secondly , the incorporation of women into the information society , which is extremely important for the future ; financial assistance for women in central and eastern european countries , in the meda countries ; the fight against sex tourism in third countries , where there is a huge problem which affects women in particular ; and the promotion and defence of the fundamental rights and freedoms of women .
all in all , we would like to see these amendments approved .
a group of meps then presented an amendment to the committee on budgets - which was approved - with a view to extending this budget heading to other women ' s organisations in order to show our pluralist approach and respect for all options and all political affiliations in the european union .
for this budget heading we in the committee had asked for a larger amount than was allocated in the end , but all in all , as i said before , we are satisfied and we are hoping for final approval .
a prime responsibility of any elected parliament is to protect the interests of the individual citizens against the executive .
in our case we have to ensure not only that the commission respects european policy but that the member states do so as well and fulfil their treaty obligations .
they are not always ready to do so .
i should like to draw attention to the fact that the issue we are petitioned on is the question of fraud and mismanagement of money in the european union .
over the last few weeks in britain alone i have monitored what the press has been saying about cases of fraud , waste and mismanagement in britain : social security fraud - gbp 4.5 billion ; serious fraud offices investigating 81 cases covering gbp 1.4 billion ; housing benefit fraud - gbp 185 million ; giro cheque fraud - gbp 240 million .
so certainly we must make sure that we have our affairs in order in europe but anybody reporting these issues should never forget that it is not just the european union that needs to address those issues seriously .
the context of our debate today is that we must use whatever opportunity we have in our budget to make sure that our european institutions are ready for the next stage of enlargement , both in terms of the institutions ' structures as well as improved policy management .
secondly , i have a specific comment on category 4 and on our external policies .
we know that our debates on the budget will address this on many occasions .
but i would like to pick up on the comments of the commissioner , mrs schreyer , who said that there are a number of instruments , a number of means by which we can come to terms with what is requested for this year , whether it be the flexibility instrument or indeed the negative reserve , where we could perhaps find the credits available for this year despite the problem of how to manage that in practice .
the framework agreement between our two institutions is now in operation even if it is disputed by a few of our members .
no discharge is outstanding , the reform process started by the last commission under the strong urgings of our parliament has been taken up in earnest by this commission .
it is this background which is crucial to my group ' s approach to the 2001 budget .
having always been in the vanguard for change in the european institutions , for example with our support for never giving discharge for the 1996 budget , we are now absolutely determined that the reform process will not be lost as larger and more political issues begin to dominate our agenda in the run-up to the nice summit .
we focussed our efforts on three specific areas : better execution of the budget , more effective management of european policies and successful implementation of the reform package with particular reference to the new posts requested by the commission .
to the surprise of many in my delegation , we established a core strategy unanimously at the beginning of september and the 400 amendments introduced by some of my colleagues came as somewhat of a surprise to many of us in the budget committee .
mr president of the council , my group could put more payments on the line if we were certain that policies were being better managed .
we are looking to rebuild people ' s confidence in our institutions .
on the contrary , we must work for a parliament which campaigns for openness , efficiency and effective democratic control of the european institutions .
thank you very much , mr elles .
mr president , commissioner , mr president-in-office of the council , first of all i would like to extend warm thanks to the four rapporteurs who have done the groundwork for today .
and so we must think about how to solve this problem .
i believe it is very important for the council members to register the fact that payments are commitments entered into in the past that will actually have to be honoured .
we want to tackle unemployment for example .
we have other priorities on the foreign policy front .
we want to drive democratisation processes forward , and we want to strike a balance between the traditional political fields of foreign policy now before us .
when you , mr president-in-office , then say this must be financed from existing budgetary funds , i would ask you to consider just one thing : this year alone we have made 200 000 flexibility instruments available , and supplemented this with eur 180 million from the emergency reserve .
therefore , this year alone we will have included eur 380 million in fresh funds in the budgetary lines and made it available .
this problem will occupy us for the next six or seven years , and probably even longer .
this would go hand in hand with the reform of the commission , which , as it happens , has already set us thinking about how we can make our policies more effective overall .
the budget for 2001 is the second budget during this present programming period .
it continues the budget policy that was outlined in the interinstitutional agreement of over a year ago .
it is right that the committee should have made a special point of focus the reduction in expenditure commitments that are in arrears .
structural funds are one year in arrears and the media programme , for example , is actually eight years in arrears .
the most difficult problems in the new budget concern external action .
the basic reason is agenda 2000 , in which there are too few funds for the construction of the balkan region .
however , just eur 1 850 million were set aside for the development of this region at berlin , while eur 4 500 million were spent during the previous period .
the council reduced funds for the balkans by eur 200 million , although there is a massive amount of reconstruction work to be done in the wake of the nato bombing .
the committee on budgets has taken a constructive stand on financing .
it wishes to commence talks with the council in which all the opportunities of the interinstitutional agreement would be exploited to solve problems .
mr president , it is with these remarks that i would like , on behalf of my group , to support the policy of the committee on budgets in next year ' s budget .
our group will support your proposals for the most part .
however , we oppose the gue ' s strategy , which submitted a proposal out of the blue in the committee on budgets yesterday , to reject the budget .
like the budget before it , budget 2001 had almost insoluble conflicts to contend with : on the one hand the pressure of consolidation and cost-cutting policy , as agreed under the interinstitutional agreement , in order to secure the financing of the enlargement process , and on the other hand , the acute financing needs of the stability pact for the balkans .
financing is a balancing act between needs - financial requirements in the new member states and financing opportunities for the donor countries - and there are limited public funds .
we hope to be able to develop a common strategy over the next few weeks in order to counteract this .
mr president , commissioner , president-in-office of the council , as you know , my group has unanimously decided to table a motion rejecting the draft budget for the year 2001 .
we are going to be in some way forced to choose between these three priorities , even though they are identically legitimate and equally urgent , and this is not , in our view , acceptable .
the budget is not the be all and end all , of course , but it does reflect the political will of the fifteen member states .
jacques chirac spoke lyrically , in this very chamber , of the europe of all citizens , male and female , yet the draft budget of the fifteen envisages an absolute reduction in appropriations in chapters as important as social action , employment , education , training , youth , culture , audiovisual media and the environment .
on some of these lines , even the amendments from the committee on budgets , although positive , fall short of the 2000 budget .
the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy has done so , and the president of the european parliament clearly expressed the same views in biarritz .
had this amendment been adopted in its initial version , it might have started to deal the cards afresh , but the idea was rejected by the majority of the committee on budgets .
this is a blind alley , which my group is not ready to go down .
in this connection , i should like to refer to a crucial passage in the speech by the general rapporteur .
our motion to reject the council text is specifically aimed at contributing towards highlighting , in good time , this key political problem on which , sooner or later , we shall have to deliver an opinion in order , in the long term , to match european projects with the resources needed to implement them .
mr president , commissioner , the french presidency of the european union is coming to an end at the time when parliament is voting on the budget for 2001 .
we can only , in such circumstances , support parliament ' s attitude and the back the amendment in favour of meda , restoring the appropriations of the preliminary draft budget , in the same way that we must be pleased at the significant increase in agricultural expenditure and the special place given to the second pillar of the cap , promotion of the countryside , while , however , deploring the position of the committee on budgets , which rejected almost all the amendments from the committee on agriculture and rural development seeking to compensate for the council ' s drastic cuts in the fruit and vegetable sector and also in the pig farming sector .
the amount of aid allocated to the balkans might give him to think so , with both the eur 200 million released from the 2000 budget as emergency aid and the appropriations for 2001 which , even so , represent an increase of 30 % over and above the 2000 budget .
the policy of aid for the balkans must now concentrate massively on serbia , a region impoverished by our bombing raids last year and by our economic sanctions which hit it so hard .
the aid we propose to contribute must safeguard rather than threaten the serbian national identity .
let us therefore put an end to direct aid to these provinces - occasionally without a legal basis , as we saw in this chamber not so long ago in the case of montenegro - direct aid that serves primarily to fuel the separatist movements .
in conclusion , we must clearly remember that , as far as we are concerned , aid for the balkans in no way justifies requests for revision of the financial perspective .
the bottom line of every budget year shows a surplus , indicating that the amounts of appropriations we have voted on do not correspond to the real needs of the situation .
mr president , as usual , i am speaking on behalf of the members of the bonino list , and i would like to start by echoing the congratulations to the two rapporteurs on the work they have done in recent months and , in general , congratulating the committee on budgets on its work .
we do not agree with the method , which is why , in this first reading , we place our confidence in the rapporteur ' s approach , in spite of what happened last night in the committee on budgets , in the hope that this will constitute a basis for effective discussion with the council in-between the first and second readings .
unfortunately , mrs haug has adopted a political line which only takes account of the supporters of a federal europe .
unfortunately , the rapporteur still has not grasped that this is why we must tread water for the time being . " let ' s do better with less " , as commissioner patten said , is lost on her .
the fact that this confidence is lacking is obvious from the drop in the currency value of the euro , which , since its launch , has lost nearly 30 % of its value compared to the yen and the american dollar .
that confidence will not grow by ploughing even more money into the budget , but it will if the budget is implemented efficiently .
naturally we too are in favour of giving aid to the balkans and serbia .
the rapporteur ' s proposal to use this principle for meda , however , does not meet the ' new ' or ' unforeseen ' requirement , and is all the more surprising in the light of the fact that spending levels have not been reached in the meda programme .
mr bourlanges made the cursory note that the 2000 budget for latin america had probably been somewhat too generous .
the council agrees with the creation of 400 posts which , according to commissioner patten , the commission needs in order to eliminate the backlog of payments .
finally , mr heaton-harris was right to refer in his amendments to the onesidedness of many european programmes , in which the citizen is treated to a propaganda-like tale on european integration , and at the expense of the citizens themselves would you believe .
the union must realise that certainly not all citizens dream of far-reaching integration .
it is just as well , given that of the 15 member states only 7 are likely to be able to present a positive balance sheet for the year 2000 .
there is therefore little prospect of us receiving additional revenue in the form of higher contribution payments from the member states .
i am referring to the absolutely crucial payments required by the balkan countries , which the council has now cut back on .
i therefore hope that the newly created budgetary line - which a few people , myself included , have been critical of - for financing the european parties , is not used to award funds to those who have already squandered away funds made available at national level and are now in fact in debt .
i also hope that the conditions attached to the establishment of 400 additional service posts within the commission will actually be fulfilled .
i hope that in the course of further negotiations with the council these principles will actually be upheld , and that in this way , we will be able to jointly adopt a budget for 2001 that benefits the citizens .
in the context of these objectives , a raft of measures is proposed for next year , which in our opinion will help to improve the current situation .
the needs are self-evident , we have many commitments , the importance of external cooperation in asserting the european union ' s presence on the world stage is obvious , and there is a very low implementation rate for various programmes .
the meda programme , which focuses on the mediterranean basin , a geographical area of the utmost strategic importance , is a good example of our inability to implement our programmes .
with a view to resolving current bottlenecks , a general reserve should be created under category 4 - a performance reserve - which will be used in proportion to the extent to which the various items are implemented .
the third aspect to be emphasised is that if we wish to see greater coordination between the european institutions , we should promote , in theory and in practice , the integration of the commission ' s legislative programme and the budgetary process , as well as informing parliament in advance of decisions by other institutions that may have an impact on the budget .
by preserving this strategic approach in the way we address the budget this year and in years to come , the european parliament will fully play its role in the budgetary process .
the fact that category 4 ' s ceiling has now been exceeded by eur 380 million tells us that we really should have done something like that .
we are trying to safeguard parliament ' s priorities in category 4 .
but there are three areas which are giving us cause for concern .
kosovo , of course - which we had the problem with last year .
in fact , we have problem in that we have given too much .
with the transfer of eur 175 million we have estimated eur 25 million more than we expected .
we will try to get an agreement with the council and the commission on that .
i turn now to what mr wurtz said before .
but to reject the budget at this stage , at first reading , is totally wrong .
the content of the argument is worth considering for support , but to try to reject the budget at first reading is nonsense .
we have a long way to go before we get to the second reading but at least he has given us something to think about .
on the western balkans , president-in-office , you said that the council considers eur 614 million to be enough .
there is a distinct difference between parliament and the council .
my flight is booked for friday , so i am ready for a long night on thursday , but i hope that at the end of all this we can get a budget we are all satisfied with , so we can do justice to the tax-payers of the european union , to the people we represent , but also to those in need , especially in the meda areas , especially in serbia and especially in the western balkans .
thank you very much , mr wynn .
we would particularly like to thank you for making us smile and even laugh about a subject as serious as the budget .
thank you for the answer .
question no 3 by ( h-0714 / 00 ) : subject : cost of the activities of the ' three wise men ' in austria which funds are being used to cover the costs of the activities of the ' three wise men ' , who have been deployed by the portuguese presidency to assess the situation in austria ?
my answer is very simple .
the council played no part in this matter and the community budget was not used in any way .
the expenditure committed in order to fund the task of assessing the austrian situation was actually funded in its entirety at national level by austria ' s 14 partners within the european union .
the presidency did , of course , make a contribution to this .
mr president , minister moscovici , one question the public , and also quite a number of meps have been asking themselves , is : what was the role of the embassies in this connection ?
we really cannot avoid this question .
i therefore think it was quite appropriate , in this context , to ask an external authority , that was not morally implicated , to undertake this task .
question no 5 by ( h-0776 / 00 ) : subject : violation of human rights and dismantling of paramilitary groups in colombia paramilitary groups have stepped up the murders of farmers , journalists , trade unionists , political leaders and human rights activists over the past few months .
ramiro zapata was the latest of 25 human rights activists to be murdered and , recently , the colombian press condemned the paramilitary groups ' " plan 100 " to kill one hundred human rights activists .
the government has recognised the " accidental " killing of six children in puerto rico on 15 august .
yes , generally the european union regularly condemns in the strongest possible terms the serious human rights violations which , unfortunately , are still being committed practically every day in colombia .
while supporting the efforts made by the colombian government to make progress in the peace process , the european union has stressed , and continues to stress , that government ' s necessary commitment to respect for human rights in colombia .
the european union has also appealed for the commitment of all parties to seeking a negotiated solution to the conflict , without which it would be impossible to establish any lasting peace .
on several occasions , the european union has affirmed its willingness to support , to the extent that it can and with the most appropriate means , all efforts to secure a peace agreement .
in this respect , a joint declaration should be read by france ' s representative , on behalf of the presidency , on the meetings in support of the peace process scheduled to be held in bogota on 24 october 2000 , which should , in particular , stress the need to support the rule of law and the fight against the causes of violence , to boost aid for the victims of violence , to defend human rights , protect biodiversity and the environment , and step up consultation and regional cooperation .
you may rest assured , finally , that respect for human rights , and the promotion of human rights , are , in any case , a key component of the european union ' s cooperation with third countries .
mr president , i want to thank the president-in-office for his reply which was very comprehensive .
i am a bit happier with the attitude of the council today than i was in july because , as on many occasions in situations of crisis , the european union seems always to be the last authority to arrive on the international scene and make its voice heard .
nevertheless , is the council aware of the amount of money that the european union provides , something like ten times what the united states provides for development cooperation throughout the world ?
i am not unaware of amount of money the americans are promising in aid for colombia , for example , the bulk of which is earmarked for activities to combat drugs trafficking .
at the same time , from my own experience , i think you are somewhat mistaken in making such a generalisation .
but in that case we are in a rather peculiar situation given the historical links between the united sates and the continent of south america .
many of us believe that the problems in colombia , as in other latin american countries , stem from the issue of whether or not peasant-farmers own land .
in 1984 , 0.2 % of landowners in colombia owned 32 % of the land .
in the port of buenaventura , 20 peasant-farmers were murdered .
far away , in another area called cienaga , there have been over 200 murders since the paramilitaries moved in a year ago .
the question , mr president , and i shall end here , is whether there is a solution that would exert greater pressure than that proposed by the president in his statement and whether the aid we are going to give will be entirely different from that of the united states , in other words , not intended for crop-spraying , but for crop replacement and also for social , rather than military , purposes .
this is an inadequate response by the european union .
i should just like to confirm my previous answer .
while taking the honourable member ' s comments very seriously , i still think that this aid is useful and should be intensified .
the council is not here to make comments on every aspect of this extremely sensitive and painful issue .
mr president , when you mention the text of the supplementaries and the president-in-office ' s response , could i remind the president-in-office that the original question specifically related to the massacre in colombia , whether or not the council has had discussions on this event and if it plans to make any formal protest or not .
the questions that i and other members asked are very specifically related to the situation in colombia .
i specifically stated - and this will have been noted in the minutes - that the incident you refer to in your question has not been specifically referred to the council and that the council has not mentioned the matter as such in this debate .
i should not like you to think that the council does not answer the questions asked of it .
at the same time , it is just not possible to undertake an ad hoc debate on matters like this , which are , let me repeat , extremely complex ones .
as they deal with the same subject , question nos 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 and 13 will be taken together .
question no 6 by ( h-0718 / 00 ) : subject : international financial transactions at the next annual meeting of the imf , does the council plan to propose that the imf committee should study possible arrangements for introducing a tobin-type tax on international financial transactions with a view to combating speculation and stabilising currency markets ?
question no 8 by ( h-0720 / 00 ) : subject : tobin tax how does the council intend to help future governments deal with the emerging crisis in national taxation because of tax competition and off-shore financial centres , and would it consider new streams of taxable revenue such as currency transactions ?
question no 11 by ( h-0725 / 00 ) : subject : viability of tobin-type taxes at european level in view of the recent report issued by the french minister of finance indicating that tobin-type taxes would not be viable if introduced by a single member state , what steps does the french presidency propose with a view to securing the viability of such taxes at european union and global level ?
question no 12 by ( h-0735 / 00 ) : subject : tax on financial transactions in recent months there have been growing calls for a tax on financial speculation , with attac committees ( association for a tax on financial transactions and aid for citizens ) springing up in france and europe , as well as the amendments tabled in the french national assembly and senate .
no , i shall try not to give you too academic an answer , but you put me in a difficult position in asking me these questions because we could easily spend more than one evening answering , and in any case we shall no doubt be overrunning the allotted hour with the questions that are coming up .
i should just like to say , once again , speaking on behalf of the council , that the council is perfectly aware of topical events and the importance of these issues .
i shall therefore beware of giving a definitive answer to this difficult question .
firstly , i think everyone recognises that this tax , known as tobin tax could operate properly only if applied at world level .
it must be noted , however , that while it may be possible to seek a consensus within the european union , no such consensus exists within g7 , especially within the oecd , regarding levying a tax on exchange transactions .
we are even aware , and this is an economic line of reasoning , that if there were a broad consensus , then a limited number of financial places would have a real interest in adopting an uncooperative attitude and refusing to apply the tax on transactions within their territory .
the question that i must ask those who advocate the tobin tax , therefore , is exactly how we can offset that risk that would exist that speculative activities would shift location to tax havens , since this is a phenomenon which must be avoided if such a tax were to be adopted .
i should also like to have answers to the question of what influence it would have on the volatility of the exchange markets , particularly what would be the effect of a tax of 0.1 per thousand on speculators expecting devaluation in the order of 20 to 50 % .
there would , besides , be a risk of this tax being bypassed due to the high level of innovative performance in the modern financial world .
this fight , which is one of the priorities of the french presidency , was expressed at both the justice and home affairs council and the ecofin council , and recently in a combined meeting of these two councils .
it is just that we get the impression , and your answer testifies to this somewhat , that the council presidency is not being very proactive in dealing with this issue .
i must act prudently , not in general but in using terms such as ' code of conduct ' .
this is therefore a key policy guideline which , without constituting an alternative to the project for the tobin tax , is perhaps more realistic in the short term and is one which the current presidency values extremely highly .
in one of its resolutions , the acp-eu joint assembly , held in brussels from 9 to 12 october , referred explicitly in recital c and in paragraph 21 to the creation of a tobin tax .
we do have to consider a number of questions calling for specific answers , particularly on the subject of funding development , and clearly efforts must focus on the improvement and the quality of state aid for development , the development of trade , strengthening international financial institutions , and the issue of debt must be considered in depth once again .
the minor amount you mention is precisely in the same order as the daily variations in the euro / dollar exchange rate , and this is something we are attempting to combat by other , infinitely more costly methods .
i think that , in spite of everything , fluctuations in the euro / dollar exchange rate are , unfortunately , higher than this sort of value , and it is true that we have to deal , in the long term , with speculators who expect far greater devaluation .
indeed this is what has happened in the case of the euro over the year , whether we like it or not .
you have before you not pierre moscovici the militant or even pierre moscovici , speaking in his capacity as minister , although i have attempted to introduce a few personal remarks in relation to the position prepared for me .
i am supposed to be speaking on behalf of the council , the council being the body uniting the ministers of the 15 european union member states .
mr moscovici , you can see that the eight questions come from the left of the chamber .
i also excuse them , but we shall apply the rules of procedure .
firstly , will he come and speak to us as a militant on a future occasion ?
secondly , is he aware that the recent labour party conference passed a document which overwhelmingly said that they would work with its international partners and all stake-holders towards addressing the concerns raised by advocates of the tobin tax and introducing new mechanisms for international stability and better global financial regulation ?
i shall , of course , continue in the same vein , especially as i feel we must consider that this debate bears witness to the fact that increasing numbers of people , particularly within the european union , are wondering about applying stricter control to financial speculation and also about the ability of the political authorities to intervene in this economic sphere and the extravagant powers of the multinationals .
so , at a time when people feel that politics does not have the ability to intervene in the economic sphere , and also more generally in the role of european construction in order to alter its conduct of international relations , do you not think that a measure of this kind could contribute to restoring confidence in the political world ' s power to act and , hence , could it not serve as a message sent out to the countries and the peoples of the south ?
i should just like to repeat , once again , the fact that in discussing the tobin tax , we must also question the conditions for the effectiveness of such a tax .
i think we should perhaps attempt to get outside the too narrow area of preferences in order to also ask economic questions .
mr president-in office , you said at the start of your speech that this matter could be discussed endlessly here in parliament .
you are quite right and i would also like to remind you that we have already once discussed this subject in great detail , and these very same colleagues of mine asked the same questions before .
the reason why we have been quiet here on the right is therefore that we have already examined these matters once and , in our opinion , we do not need to talk about the same issues over and over again in this chamber and use up our precious time doing so .
the adoption of the tobin tax on a global scale will be impossible .
as for the rest , i should just like to add that france has indeed looked into a number of areas of reform with a view to answering the concerns behind the proposal to establish a tobin-type tax , even if questions of how it is actually going to work remain unanswered .
as the author is not present , question no 14 lapses .
the number of cases of bse , or bovine spongiform encephalopathy , that have been identified in europe over the last few years is , as we know , a major area of concern .
the council is more than ever anxious to take every step possible in order to eradicate this disease .
i should like to specify briefly that the recent increase in the number of cases identified does not mean that the epidemic is spreading wildly .
on 7 january 1999 , the commission put forward a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation seeking to consolidate the texts previously adopted by the commission as precautionary measures in order to establish rules for the prevention and supervision of certain forms of bse .
this was designed to offer consumers a guarantee of a very high level of protection .
the european parliament delivered its opinion on the commission proposal at first reading , during the sittings of 15 and 19 may 2000 .
it adopted 48 amendments , 40 of which were accepted by the commission .
the council is actively involved in examining the commission proposal and these amendments with a view to managing in the near future to issue a position on this .
moreover , in anticipation of adopting this directive on the prevention of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies , a decision on the prohibition of the use of material presenting risks as regards these diseases was taken in june 2000 , in order to stop any further spreading of the epidemic and in order to guarantee the highest possible health protection standards for the consumer .
the decision therefore applies to the production and commercialisation of products derived from animals that are made from or contain materials from animals of bovine , ovine or caprine species .
the specified risk materials for compulsory removal and destruction from now on are the following : " the skull including the brains and eyes , the tonsils , the spinal cord and the ileum of bovine animals aged over 12 months " ; " the skull including the brains and eyes , the tonsils and the spinal cord of ovine and caprine animals aged over 12 months ...
the council , of course , is careful to monitor development in scientific findings and in the implementation of rapid diagnostic tests .
for the time being , as you know , applications are to be made to national budgets in procedures for the compensation of livestock farmers .
i have not read this morning ' s papers yet , but i believe i can make a sincere case to promote french beef in general .
i should not like to get into this very acrimonious debate or to get involved in bilateral french-british considerations .
mrs isler beguin will pardon me if i do not wish to go into great detail in response to a debate on bse which has a justifiable place in this house after entering into a debate on the tobin tax .
i must tell you , mr cushnahan , that the document is distributed to all members in their pigeonholes and that the secretariat of each political group receives them on mondays .
question no 16 by ( h-0731 / 00 ) : subject : ban on oil tankers in the strait of bonifacio the strait of bonifacio is an extremely dangerous passage for shipping .
the corsican and sardinian coastlines on either side are of exceptional ecological and historical value , as acknowledged by the 1993 franco-italian agreement , which prohibits french and italian merchant ships carrying hazardous products from travelling through the strait .
regarding international traffic in transit , international law stipulates , subject to certain reservations , that the vessels of all states have the ' right of innocent passage ' in territorial waters .
already , following proposals by france and italy , the international maritime organisation , imo , has adopted two resolutions , which have been in force since 1 december 1998 , on establishing rules for shipping traffic in the strait of bonifacio and making it compulsory for vessels entering the strait to identify themselves .
the council also recently issued favourable guidelines on the draft directives amending the 1995 directive on the inspection of vessels by the state port , and the draft on vessel inspection bodies .
i should , moreover , like to point out , as commissioner barnier did this morning , that these maritime safety issues , on the basis of a commission communication , were dealt with in a totally positive fashion at the informal european council in biarritz , after the french prime minister simply asked the commission to bring forward , if at all possible , the cut-off date for authorisation of single hulled vessels from 2015 to 2010 , which seems quite a reasonable request , in any case , and a perfectly realistic ambition .
thank you for your answer , mr president , but the question went rather further .
these resolutions were adopted and came into force on 1 december 1998 .
regarding international traffic in transit , international law , particularly the united nations convention on the law of the sea , stipulates , subject to certain reservations , that the vessels of all states have the ' right of innocent passage ' in territorial waters .
any action by the two governments concerned is therefore limited by this international law .
excellent question .
as the time allotted to questions to the council has run out , question nos 17 to 46 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , commissioner , i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur .
i would also like to say a few things about agriculture .
the commission does not label this as information policy , but social policy .
the second point i wanted to make concerns quality policy for agricultural products , for which parliament earmarked 50 million of the budget last year .
mr president , the european union ' s budget for next year has been prepared in difficult circumstances .
the problems are the same as last year .
the previous european parliament made this interinstitutional agreement , which was binding on this parliament , a couple of months prior to the commencement of this parliamentary term , and it specified too low a ceiling for category 4 expenditure .
new money is needed in the budget for serbia and kosovo .
i would like to focus attention on the fact that there seem to be sufficient amounts of european union money for financing political parties at european level , but not , for example , for the prevention of unemployment .
i quote the exact words of parliament ' s resolution : ' the european parliament requests the commission to pay special attention to structural problems of an economic or social character caused by natural disasters and to look favourably on measures to help solve these problems ; stresses the need to re-establish line b4-3400 ( urgent aid for natural disasters within the european union ) so that urgent needs can be addressed immediately , fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity ' .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , our budget for 2001 , with its eur 92.5 billion in payment appropriations adds two new items to the traditional features .
as regards the traditional features , apart from the problems of ensuring that the projections are honest ones , we have , first of all , the problem of budgetary cuts for european farmers , with eur 300 million of agricultural aid and eur 225 million of appropriations for rural development cut .
there is nothing for beekeepers , who were asking for a mere eur 15 million , even though it is possible to increase expenditure for the balkans by 30 % .
we have the whole kit and caboodle of subsidies for associations working with drugs , xenophobia , immigrants , the jean monnet house , the exile council , the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction , even the prince campaign .
finally , the third traditional feature is the budgetary funds poured into foreign preferences .
i hope , mr president , and this is my concluding remark , that we are at least going to cut the eur 50 million budget lines financing the israel-plo peace agreement .
mr president , in the haug report the sentiment is expressed that the commission , in close cooperation with parliament , is responsible for providing information to the european citizen about the policies of the european union .
but parliament has another responsibility : it is to represent the concerns of the citizens of member states to the european union , something which appears to be discouraged here .
it will be not unknown to some members here that my party , the ukip , seeks the withdrawal of the uk from the european union .
mr president , the problem with the 2001 budgetary year is more one of quality than of quantity .
we all know that there was no category relating to external action in the financial perspective adopted in berlin .
the military action against serbia , aid for reconstruction , the foreseeable fall of milosevic .
however , the financial perspective was a success because it was , at the time , the only possible agreement between 15 member states .
the interinstitutional agreement that resulted from the summit was good news for the powers of this parliament .
external needs reveal the shortages in category 4 .
in the european union , we do not even know who is responsible .
it is true that , if the council took an intransigent position , it would make things difficult in such important areas as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for meda , the management committees , increases in payments in order to absorb the remainder that needs to be paid or the extension of the n + 2 planning procedure to external actions .
if the council took a flexible position , we could reach an agreement at second reading in order to close the budget .
but they cannot be extended ad infinitum .
today we are also debating the colom i naval report on the interinstitutional agreement , in which the commission undertakes to present parliament with all the necessary information for initiatives that have financial implications .
now , in 2000 , after more than 15 years of parliamentary history , is when this initiative comes to parliament .
the european parliament is the other branch of the budgetary authority and , despite this , it is the press that often informs us of the union ' s new financial commitments made in the european councils .
then , when the commitment has already been announced and made , they just have to ask the commission and its commissioners to make a gap in the budget and parliament to accept it .
we are now at first reading and you have enough time to seek full agreement with parliament .
consider the fact that , in european policy , as in any other field , sometimes the moderate options cease to be the majority options .
there are three major issues which we should be concerned about in relation to the budget for other institutions .
firstly , how far does this budget improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the institutions ?
on the first point , i believe that this budget continues to apply the principles of budgetary rigour , budgetary prudence , improving efficiency , more effective budget control , better use of resources and a general tightening up , which are all vital to increase the confidence of the eu citizen in the institutions .
having said that , the principle of budgetary rigour can be developed further in every area .
in the case of parliament , how can we talk about budgetary rigour and still base ourselves in three different cities , in three different member states ?
without wishing to give offence to our host city here in strasbourg , our monthly part-sessions in this city are a manifest waste of time , money and parliament ' s ability to be effective and efficient .
my group believes that parliament ' s bureau needs to review its decision and also to draw up a full list , with clear criteria , for those exceptional cases where members can draw a daily allowance for their presence in brussels during constituency weeks .
furthermore , we parliamentarians also need to address the issue of the statute for assistants .
the commission is starting to get its own house in order and it is crucial that the other institutions are seen to follow suit .
in particular , the other institutions should follow the commission as quickly as possible in implementing activity-based budgeting .
the system is anything but transparent .
but of course it is not enough to encourage reform in each institution separately .
there needs to be greater vigour and determination for the parliament , council and commission to cooperate as closely as possible on issues such as translation , interpretation , libraries and buildings .
nowhere is it more important than for us to demonstrate value for money in the buildings policy .
this strategy has already been introduced by joan colom i naval , the vice-president for buildings .
instead of simply showing expenses distributed among accounts , the new-format budget shows more clearly what we are getting for our money .
as elected representatives , we are of course delighted with any move to make the budget more easily understandable .
this spring , commissioner chris patten illustrated this by asking why the eu was appropriating more money to cleaning up after hurricane mitch in latin america than it had appropriated to developing the russian economy .
all of us - the council , parliament and the commission - agree that we must be thrifty , and we have all kept dutifully below the established ceiling for expenditure .
i do not think our electorate will appreciate technical justifications in terms of the budget for the fact that we cannot in harmony find the money for serbia and the balkans without reducing our efforts in other countries .
there is , however , a popular demand that we solve the problem of how best to provide aid to serbia .
mr president , may i first of all express my admiration for the rapporteur .
the total quoted so far of eur 200 million for serbia hardly even begins to meet the real needs .
i welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this important debate and to dwell on the importance of the agricultural budget and its relevance not just to farmers but to society in general .
those with an interest in developing a sustainable agricultural sector will be aware that the central thrust of recent reform as agreed in berlin is a continuing move from commodity support to direct income support for farmers .
in some areas of agricultural activity , such as bee production , eu support represents the profit margin which in effect means consumers enjoy a quality food product at production costs and regretfully , as demonstrated in recent years , sometimes below the cost of production .
in berlin last year it was agreed that the budgetary provision for agriculture for the period 2000-2006 will be over  506 billion , that the 15 member states of the european union will continue to contribute 1.3 % of gross national product to the overall annual budget - which of course includes measures to finance the proposed enlargement of the european union , a proposal which i and my other colleagues fully support .
frustrated because , after lengthy debates within the committee on budgets and after the commendable efforts of the general rapporteur , to whom i must pay tribute , i cannot see exactly what parliament ' s intentions are regarding the key problem of the revision of the financial perspective .
by and large , we have two standpoints , that of the council which persists in wishing to fund the new requirements of kosovo and serbia from the budget total established in berlin without revision , and that of the commission which is proposing to revise the financial perspective in order to finance these new requirements without seriously affecting the other policies , particularly the meda programme .
to date , parliament has always been in favour of avoiding redistributing funds within category 4 in order to finance the new requirements .
in spite of the rapporteur ' s bolder proposal , we have voted in a text which does not mention the word " revision " , as if it was too vulgar a term , the r word rather than the f word , nor does it mention amounts , as if it were possible to reach any negotiated solution without specifying the amounts involved .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , first of all , i would , of course , like to thank all rapporteurs .
i was able to experience this first-hand over the past two weeks when , during a trip in the western balkans , i visited kosovo and bosnia .
and i am telling you loud and clear : kostunica must be given his chance here and i therefore hope that he will give amnesty in the next couple of weeks or months , but meanwhile , i do want the introduction of those two new budget lines , democratisation and reconstruction , to be accompanied by political conditions , both from a political and budgetary perspective .
for it is true that my visit to bosnia taught me that the situation there is very problematic indeed .
all the people i talked to over there applauded the switch of power in serbia , but they all feared a reduction in the financial resources at the same time .
i therefore back all efforts , together with mr lagendijk , to inject maximum funds in the western balkans .
mr president , the council really has surpassed itself in its proposed draft budget 2001 .
in the final analysis , it is immoral to cut spending on agricultural policy , on the meda programme and on the socially excluded , in order to find the resources to finance the european union ' s commitments in kosovo and yugoslavia .
this budget is unacceptable .
the challenge faced by the new president is , at the same time , a challenge to us europeans .
the process of democratisation has only just begun .
the retreat of the old serbian government and the formation of a transitional cabinet of experts , as well as the election of the new serbian parliament on 23 december of this year , are important prerequisites for replacing the old socialist-communist nomenclature in the republic of serbia , just as it has already been replaced in montenegro , and for opening the door to democratic changes .
the latest elections contributed a further 80 municipalities to our democratic contacts at local level , so that we have a sufficient number of intermediaries at this level too .
those responsible for politics and the economy in serbia emphasise again and again that they do not wish to become dependent upon our help , but that they need our help now in order to alleviate need in the short term and that they will then need help to help themselves introduce a social market economy in the medium and long term and in order also to make necessary foreign investment possible .
professor kostunica deserves our support .
i am also sure that this parliament will concur with this judgement of mine when he has spoken before us in this chamber on 15 november .
i very much hope that in the debate on the cards programme , which of course covers our financial commitment to all these countries , we show the same level of commitment and give each country its due .
firstly , i would like to say something about the backlog of payments which each year causes headaches as a result of the council ' s eagerness to cut payment appropriations , with the aim of obtaining this absurd and false saving , which looks very good on the national balance sheet , but which in reality only produces what we call a burden for the future , because it is clear that what has been committed to - commitments entered into - in previous financial years has to be fulfilled .
having said this , and also taking into account that the commission itself has admitted that for 2001 applications from member states for payments for the structural funds exceed the predictions of the pdb by eur 8 000 million , i think that it is now time for the council to start considering very seriously that we should do something about payments and not increase the backlog of payments .
i am in no doubt about the reason for the existence of these parliaments , but there is no harm in pointing out that the socrates programme derives from a legislative codecision procedure between parliament and the council , and that decisions such as this set a serious precedent which will , in the future , allow the inclusion of comments on programmes of any type of action that do not fit in elsewhere .
i think that this distorts the legislative procedure for adopting programmes and , above all , the content of those programmes .
mr president , the current financial perspective clearly does not reflect our existing priorities and commitments .
the mainstay of parliament ' s strategy should be to force the council to guarantee that new resources will be allocated to new objectives , in order to prevent these new objectives from being implemented using resources earmarked for existing priorities .
we clearly appreciate certain aspects , specifically the fact that the year 2000 amounts for development policies have been retained .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are talking about a budget with some eur 96.8 billion in commitments and eur 94.7 billion in payments from parliament ' s point of view .
far below the ceiling for own resources , therefore .
for us , however , it is crucial that , on 15 november , the commission should submit - as we shall demand that it do - a clear , detailed and intelligible report on how we are dealing with the commitments entered into so far and with the total arrears in payments .
until these figures are available , there will be problems in releasing the general implementation reserve of some eur 650 million .
it must also , of course , be made clear to the council that it also has its share of responsibility for the deficiencies in the way that many external programmes have been handled .
we say yes to 400 new jobs in 2001 .
in this connection , efforts are required to solve the major social problems , for example unemployment .
that is particularly important , bearing in mind that there is money for efforts in all these areas .
we therefore also believe that , in future , we must further reform agricultural policy in the direction of lower costs and that we must definitely remove expenditure such as aid for tobacco cultivation , which makes no sense at all .
the minister simply had his facts wrong .
the system assumes that the payment appropriations more or less simply follow the spending patterns , but the council adds its own mechanism , and it is that mechanism which threatens to undermine berlin , despite the fact that berlin is under way in real terms .
for sweden , this would involve approximately eur 65 million .
by adopting the necessary priorities in the budget , we shall tackle both of these historic commitments successfully .
on the other hand , it is important for the peace of mind of thousands of workers , and compatible with the overall amount planned , that the level of aid planned for this financial year for the social chapter for coal should be maintained .
mr president , one of the great privileges of parliamentarians is to talk about the budget .
but my main point is about the acp .
yes , it is a parliamentary assembly but it has no budget to control , because the edf budget which we use for the acp is apparently controlled by the member states .
we have a parliamentary assembly which does not have a budget .
to go on subsidising tobacco cultivation at the same time is a downright contradiction in terms .
i know that this proposal is not at present capable of winning a majority , but i should like to call upon as many fellow meps as possible to vote in favour of this package of measures in order simply to set an example so that we might finally make some headway on this issue .
another important point relates to the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products in london .
this definitely requires an increase in its budget , for we ourselves have of course given it a new additional task .
the committee on budgets has also recognised this .
mr fischler is negotiating hard , but unfortunately without success so far .
i am confident of a positive vote in this area , that is to say in the fisheries area as a whole , for i believe that only this will constitute an expression of our common political will .
those who are in charge of the future of this parliament would do well to recognise it is a one-day debate they require , not a two-day debate on the budget in future .
i say without apology that i am going to address the effects that the european union has had in my region .
the peace and reconciliation programme which was brought about by three members of this parliament in conjunction with the former president of the commission , jacques delors , has been very positive for northern ireland .
the partnership boards have been a success in that area .
i also have to make it very clear that we now have a fledgling new regional government in northern ireland of which my party leader , david trimble , is the first minister .
you have to understand that northern ireland , throughout the last 30 years , through the terrorism , has suffered tremendously .
i want firstly to thank parliament , secondly to thank the committee on budgets for their continued support and understanding for my region .
thank you very much , mr nicholson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m .
the countries of the european union are at the vanguard in the protection of privacy compared to systems adopted in other parts of the world , especially those countries which have implemented the two directives , directive 95 / 46 and directive 97 / 66 - on the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of personal data .
the european model considers the protection of personal data to be a fundamental right guaranteed by legally binding rules , based on the principle of peoples ' self-determination of data , that is the principle whereby everyone must be able to decide whether and how personal data concerning him can be collected and used .
in this model , respect for standards and procedures is guaranteed by an independent authority and final jurisdiction lies with the judges .
therefore , a rule laying down the right of everyone to the protection of personal data concerning him , which must be processed fairly for specific purposes on the basis of the consent of the person concerned and subject to control by an independent authority , has been included in article 8 of the draft charter of fundamental rights of the european union .
moreover , article 286 of the treaty establishing the european communities , introduced by the treaty of amsterdam , lays down that community acts on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of data - that is the two above-mentioned directives - apply to the institutions and community bodies and that an independent supervisory body responsible for monitoring the application of such community acts must be established .
the proposal for a regulation which is being examined by parliament today implements these provisions , transposes the community legislation and establishes the office of european data protection supervisor , thereby providing appropriate , tangible guarantees of this fundamental right .
the willingness of all the institutions concerned to discuss the matter resulted in exemplary cooperation which , it is my fervent hope , will make it possible for us to reach a consensus at the first reading .
the many joint amendments reproduce the majority of the solutions identified by the council , and these already take into account the proposals made during the parliamentary debate .
in fact , article 225 , unlike article 286 , is also referred to in the treaty on european union .
provision is also made for cooperation with the national supervisory authorities and with the authorities established in the third pillar , with a view to coordinating and gradually harmonising the entire regulation of this sensitive area .
thus , for the first time , codecision will apply at the first reading to an extremely complex text which is full of technical difficulties on the particularly sensitive sector of the protection of civil liberties .
the very technical complexity of the text suggests that it would be a good idea to postpone the vote until the next part-session in order to allow an accurate check to be carried out on all the different language versions , for this has not yet been carried out .
freedom of movement requires effective crime prevention , which is less successful without effective protection of privacy .
the protection of personal privacy is included in the new eu charter of fundamental rights .
those of us who stand for european values in a eurosceptic country are now being given further arguments in favour of the eu , namely more effective protection of privacy , which is important for the citizens of a modern society .
we think that the institutional solutions are very good .
the exponential growth of the european union ' s tasks and jurisdiction , and the proliferation of community bodies , mean that we must have a precise legal definition of the citizens ' rights , and these should cover the transfer of information between european union institutions and bodies .
under the codecision procedure , the council submitted a proposal for a regulation to the european parliament on the basis of article 286 of the ec treaty .
this article specifies that data protection should be effective within the european union by 1 january 1999 .
we think it obvious that the risks related to the private lives of citizens and the misuse of citizens ' personal data are far greater in the context of the third pillar , which at present is subject to little or no judicial and parliamentary control , than in the context of the first pillar , which falls within the jurisdiction of the court of justice .
in my opinion , it is clear that we would be closing our eyes to the problem if we set up an authority of this type to cover just the community area , while the main problems arise and will , in future , arise due to third pillar bodies too .
the report which we are to adopt does not reflect this ambition .
the second and third pillars will not be covered by this regulation and will therefore remain impenetrable , to the detriment of citizens ' basic fundamental rights .
in addition to the restrictive reading of article 286 , however , it would have been possible to take article 255 of the treaty as a further legal basis in order to expand the scope of this regulation .
in the end , though , our rapporteur is well aware of these problems and is anxious not to add another two years to the existing backlog .
they must , furthermore , seek to implement means for the protection of personal data in the second and third pillars too at the earliest possible opportunity .
it is dangerous , in any case , to allow bodies such as europol or the schengen system to develop without parliamentary or judicial control .
mr president , i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report .
effectively , the problem arises from the exclusions and exceptions in the protection of personal data with regard to the second and , in particular , third , pillars , but also from the exceptions already laid down by the directives as regards police activities and activities related to national security .
the commission would first and foremost like to highlight the commitment we made to the citizens of europe to ensure protection of the personal data processed by the institutions of europe .
we are approximately two years behind schedule in relation to the date set in article 286 of the treaty establishing the european communities , hence the urgent need to reach agreement on this matter .
the council , with the crucial encouragement of the presidency , succeeded in overcoming the problems raised by a number of delegations , to ensure that the proposal for a regulation will most probably enjoy the unanimous approval of the council .
the commission has , in turn , also played a part in initiating and mediating between the council and parliament .
the commission also decided not to hold up the adoption of an instrument that is significant for the protection of citizens ' personal data .
even though it considers that the outcome is not completely satisfactory as far as it is concerned , the commission in turn decided to adopt the text produced as a result of the discussions in the council and parliament as reflected in the paciotti report , and will therefore reject any other amendments to its original proposal .
more specifically , the commission ' s position on the amendments contained in the paciotti report is as follows .
amendments nos 1 , 2 , 4 to 10 , 12 to 40 , 42 to 54 , 57 , 58 and 60 to 64 reflect the council text on the points to which the commission can give its assent .
amendment nos 55 , 56 and 59 differ from the council text , but they were the result of a political agreement between the rapporteur and the council presidency .
since the commission has decided not to obstruct the adoption of the regulation at first reading on the basis of this compromise text , it will accept these amendments .
amendments nos 3 and 11 differ from the council text , but they were the result of a political agreement between the rapporteur and the council presidency .
the commission has decided not to obstruct the adoption of the regulation at first reading on the basis of this compromise text , on condition that a statement be included in the minutes recording its legal position at such time as the council approves the regulation .
if this statement is made , the commission will accept the scope of the regulation being limited exclusively to first pillar activities .
in the view of the commission , it will be possible to adopt such regulations on the basis of article 286 .
the commission further reserves the right to subject the processing of personal data carried out under the second and third pillars to the principles contained in the regulation until such time as the regulations applicable to said data processing be implemented .
the commission supports this amendment , and i should like to thank mrs paciotti for tabling it .
the european data protection supervisor will in fact play a leading role in community institutions ' respecting the provisions protecting citizens ' personal data .
it goes without saying , then , that his opinion on the legislative proposals to do with the protection of personal data will be very valuable insofar as it will be a major contribution to the legislative debate between institutions .
amendment no 69 would seem to be acceptable to the commission inasmuch as the wording does not entail a challenge to its right of initiative .
the commission , therefore , understands this amendment as obliging it to consult the european data protection supervisor after adopting its proposal .
the text would be improved if it were amended to make that clear , perhaps this can be done when it is proof-read .
in any case , the commission will make a statement to this effect when the regulation is adopted in the council .
in order to honour the political agreement made with the council and the rapporteur to enable the regulation to be adopted at first reading , the commission rejects all other amendments which were not part of the paciotti report adopted by the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , except for amendment no 69 which is a correction to amendment no 41 .
thank you very much , commissioner bolkestein .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
the present and future fate of the seven european regions most remote from the continent has given our committee the opportunity to unanimously adopt a constructive and balanced document , the product of lengthy consultation .
the report published by the european commission on 14 march 2000 is not , strictly speaking , a response to the demands of national and regional authorities in the outermost regions .
the commission specifies that it is unable to provide answers to all the questions ; it often confines itself to proposing guidelines intended to continue and consolidate certain established instruments and further reserves the option of looking into the problems on a case by case basis .
article 299 ( 2 ) primarily expresses a political will , supported on repeated occasions by the european council and , today , by the european parliament .
the chief objective of my report was to remind the european commission of this political will in order to put an end to the unfortunate impression of reluctance or inertia that we are currently getting from the commission .
my report urges the commission to prepare a genuine multiannual work programme , accompanied by a detailed timetable , giving the most comprehensive details possible of the measures planned , and providing all the essential guarantees concerning the provision of the resources required to ensure the viability of the measures and to ensure that the measures concerned are taken on a long-term basis where they are intended to deal with intrinsic handicaps .
the commission has acknowledged that the agricultural and fisheries measures need to be revised or upgraded .
in addition , we need optimum coordination and use of all the instruments available at community level , in particular the structural funds , state aid schemes and tax and customs policies .
in this way it will contribute to promoting economic and social progress thanks to an increased level of employment .
moreover , there is an urgent need to initiate an analysis of the impact of the new acp-eu partnership agreement , signed in june 2000 in cotonou , and other international trade agreements with a view to assessing their repercussions for the outermost regions and drawing up measures to compensate producers in those regions liable to face additional competition which they are unable to withstand .
to conclude , finally , with a subject that has a bearing on our immediate future , the process of enlargement is unquestionably an essential element in the construction of europe , but an evaluation of its implications must be undertaken as a matter of urgency as of right now in order to prevent the aid duly allotted to the outermost regions and the projects resulting from the implementation of article 299 ( 2 ) being brought into question .
on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , i would like to thank her for the way that she took on board our amendments and points of view , both in the spirit and in the actual text of the report .
it is an attempt to establish an entirely uniform legal order for these outermost regions , which are separated from the rest of community territory , from mainland europe , by thousands of kilometres , and which are divided into small island regions with very difficult conditions for raising capital and for transport , which prevent the general rules for competition in the regions from being applied .
only through a general derogation in favour of the outermost regions will companies located in those regions be on an equal footing with companies located on mainland europe .
when regions are so distanced from the continental nucleus , trying to automatically apply the tax and customs rules that are applied in the continental nucleus would mean putting those outermost regions at a disadvantage .
for example , on the subject of transport , in paragraph 26 , the application of the rules on state aid to the ports and airports in a system of free competition would mean depriving those regions of the essential public service of ports and airports , which in outermost regions would never be a normal private activity , but an essential public service activity .
we hope that the commission will carry out this timetable or programme and , above all , we hope that the great institution that the commission currently has , the interdepartmental group , will remain in contact with the outermost regions , informing the central authorities of our needs and our specific problems .
nonetheless , it illustrates what i believe is a much more widespread problem about the relationship between reports and opinions , particularly those of a non-legislative kind .
for example , in this report only 25 words survive of the conclusions unanimously adopted by the committee on fisheries .
the bulk of the section dealing with fisheries actually consists of an amendment to the motion for a resolution tabled in the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
indeed , it covers certain issues more explicitly than the opinion does .
in the meantime , and on this particular report , i would respectfully request both the council and the commission to look at the conclusions that are not contained in the motion for a resolution , as well as the ones that are .
mr president , for the european union this is simply one more debate of the many that we hold .
for the outermost regions this is the most important debate that the european parliament can hold concerning them .
for many europeans , some outermost regions are nothing more than a holiday destination on the map .
this may even be the view of some of our fellow meps of the outermost regions .
for those of us who are speaking here tonight on behalf of our native regions , this is a very negative view , and , of course , a deeply mistaken one .
behind this idea , beyond our landscape and an exceptional climate , is the social and economic reality of regions that are among the least developed in the european union , with the highest levels of unemployment and with huge structural problems that impede our development .
one of these amendments proposes the implementation and application of the policies of the financial instrument for fisheries .
it is therefore necessary to implement a series of measures which margie sudre ' s report covers in detail .
in our view these measures need to go beyond regional development policies , because our shortfalls and handicaps are structural , not temporary .
mr president , commissioner , mrs sudre , we must bear in mind that the opportunity for us to debate here in this house today on the subject of the outermost regions is the result of a process of slow maturation .
the fact is , even though , as early as the treaty of rome , reference was made to the french overseas departments , we had to wait until 1989 and the programme of options specific to the remote and insular nature of these regions , the notorious posei programmes , for the european union to at long last acknowledge that the permanence and combination of structural handicaps affecting the outermost regions justified special treatment in comparison with the other regions of the community .
so , it has been a long wait , and the hopes expressed by our peoples have built up throughout this long wait .
we need real financial commitments , not , as we have in the 2001 budget , posei appropriations that , at the moment , have been cut by 25 % .
ladies and gentlemen , commissioner , the outermost regions are already the very emblem of the diversity , and hence the wealth of the european union .
in talks between the european union and external countries and international organisations attention must also be given to the special sensitivity associated with certain products in remote regions .
our group is also in favour of broadening the scope of article 299 ( 2 ) of the ec treaty , which will strengthen the positive achievements of the posei programmes in remote areas .
the economic development of the regions must be supported through , for example , various direct and indirect taxation solutions .
just as you , mrs sudre , as the representative of the outermost regions , rightly call for solidarity , i would also request solidarity on your part where the interests of the objective 1 regions are concerned , in the sense that no reductions in funds should be implemented for as long as the regions concerned are still handicapped in comparison with the developed regions of europe .
this question will become that much more relevant the closer eu enlargement towards the east becomes .
i am convinced that it is now already clear that , without a change to the financial perspective , it will not be possible to solve this problem .
allow us simply to act according to the proverb , ' do not put off till tomorrow what you can do today . ' mr president , commissioner , the european parliament is helping by means of this report to relaunch a policy for the outermost regions , as laid down in article 299 ( 2 ) of the treaty .
the hesitations and the occasional contradiction we have seen in the commission ' s action in this field recently would therefore be at odds with this .
there are therefore grounds for commending the position adopted by the european parliament and to praise the balance , competence and experience demonstrated by the rapporteur , mrs sudre , and the contribution made by all those who worked together with her , particularly the other seven members from the outermost regions .
since the economy of the outermost regions is classed in article 299 ( 2 ) of the treaty itself as being dependent on a single product or on a limited range of products , we must provide incentives for potential diversification and , at the same time , create better conditions for producing what people actually have the means and the ability to produce .
mr president , parliament , and in particular its committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , has been the driving force for approving specific policies and programmes for the outermost regions .
the unanimous approval by the members of the committee on regional policy of the report presented by mrs sudre demonstrates the european parliament ' s adherence to one of its most important commitments .
i should therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur and the committee on regional policy on their excellent work .
the experience of almost a decade and the new challenges created by developments in the common agricultural policy suggest that these programmes should be revised in order to sustain the ability of these regions to survive in the new climate of competition .
the dependence of agriculture and the whole economy of the azores on milk production is unparalleled anywhere else in the union .
all of us in the azores therefore hope that the commission , in view of the treaty and in view of parliament ' s position , will rapidly propose the necessary changes to the way the cap is implemented in the azores .
under this article , the outermost regions obtained recognition by the european union of a genuine right to be different , a right to be dealt with on a specific and special basis reflecting their unique situation , a situation that is completely different to that of the rest of the european union .
it should be noted that this right to be different is nothing more than a demonstration of the principle of equality , which also requires different treatment for anything that is different .
this is the only reason we want article 299 ( 2 ) , not in order to secure any privileged status for ourselves .
this qualitative leap must be reflected in the definition and implementation of a global and coherent strategy by the european union , which is what mrs sudre ' s report has rightly proposed .
the outermost regions and the citizens who live there have high hopes for the european institutions ' action in implementing article 299 ( 2 ) .
i think that she has done a magnificent job and also that she has shown imagination , calm and a capacity to reach agreements and compromises in order to present a document to this parliament and to the commission which i think can be useful and effective .
there are three regions in europe whose citizens face specific problems : mountain , island and the outermost regions .
these citizens enjoy a positive and enriching diversity , and they demand to be given the right to enjoy the same opportunities as other citizens from continental regions .
i think it extremely important for the european union as a whole , quite apart from the obvious interest it has for every man and every woman resident in our seven outermost regions .
i should like to thank you , minister sudre , for the quality of your report and its candour .
in some way , here in strasbourg you have managed to express the concerns of these remote regions - which does not happen all that often - which of course suffer from the handicaps related to their remote position and distance , compounded , for most of them , by their island nature , and other often difficult geographical or economic conditions , but these are factors which may also prove to be assets .
i should next like to make one comment on your report , to say that its underlying political line is , broadly speaking , that currently adopted by the commission .
in this undertaking , the commission has always been , and continues to be , supported by parliament , both in the legislative process - ladies and gentlemen , there are at least 700 legislative acts on these regions - and in the lengthy task of grass-roots implementation .
the report we issued in march sums the situation up .
let us not , however , forget that article 299 ( 2 ) also states that the coherence of the community legal order and the unity of the internal market must not be undermined .
this , ladies and gentlemen , means that we , that is , you and i , must find a balance between complying with general regulation and adapting policy to the specific needs of the outermost regions .
however , in many areas , such as taxation or customs , for instance , the coherence of community legislation and the unity of the internal market dictate that there are time limits , even if they are reasonably long , preferably with a mid-term assessment .
ladies and gentlemen , the report we issued on 14 march 2000 outlines a strategy which will , i believe , enable the european union to make a more effective contribution to sustainable development in these outermost regions and thereby to implement article 299 ( 2 ) in practical terms .
that is the first point .
i should like to tell her , and we know each other quite well now that i have been a commissioner for just a little more than a year , that i have fully understood that in order to make progress and to proceed successfully - and you can count on me to support this movement - we must take things one step at a time .
we needed to have this report .
our objective is , as you advocate , to improve community support for production as well as for supply .
we are working to ensure that these proposals can be presented this autumn .
i have understood the special issue of milk quotas in the azores .
it was not therefore included in the programme presented by the commission in march .
the commission is nonetheless aware of this problem for the azores , and i can confirm , having seen it myself , that milk is virtually the only form of production there .
your country , portugal , has asked the commission to look into this matter in the light of article 299 ( 2 ) .
that is all i had to say on this topical problem which you both , quite legitimately , pointed out .
i feel that this is a proper response to a demand often expressed by all these regions .
please allow me now to say a word or two as the commissioner in charge of a significant part of the structural funds through regional policy .
the amount allocated under objective 1 for the outermost regions is , as you know , ladies and gentlemen , being increased for this new period , 2000-2006 , to eur 8.077 billion .
these considerable amounts , ladies and gentlemen , are not just the expression of our solidarity with these regions , out of fairness - i would reiterate this as it is something i believe - but are also the recognition of the key role they can and must play as outposts on - to use your own expression , minister - the active frontiers of the european union in the regions where they are located .
as you know , the spds for madeira and the azores , were signed on 28 july .
that is what i have to report concerning the practical implementation of regional policy programming and the considerable funds associated to these .
ladies and gentlemen , the commission is moreover preparing initiatives to amend some of the terms regulating the structural funds with a view to making them yet more effective with regard to the outermost regions by making it easier to harness community aid for the economic operators .
it is not always an easy matter to make the practical progress in these initiatives that you expect to see .
i needed the document issued on 14 march as a basis to work on and also , ladies and gentlemen , in order to progress , and indeed make rapid progress , i now need to ensure that there is proper legal certainty .
this is not a completely obvious point which can be disregarded , even in the interpretation of article 299 ( 2 ) .
this discussion will moreover continue beyond the initiatives we are going to take in the weeks to come , in the second cohesion report which , as you ask , will assess the impact of enlargement on regional disparities .
this report , which i shall be coming to present to you personally next spring will be the starting point for a major debate on future regional policy and future cohesion policy for the period 2006-2013 .
i have a lasting commitment to aid and support for these regions , and therefore understand , ladies and gentlemen , the concern expressed , here and there , in your regions and also in the objective 1 regions , which i visit regularly , regarding the challenge of enlargement .
mr markov also raised this issue .
overall , it is a challenge we must accept in the interests of the european union , and its stability for the continent of europe , peace and democracy , and even to ensure the smooth running of the internal market , giving it new opportunities .
in these regions , as we know , there are long-term problems and i therefore believe that , objectively , in accordance with their actual level of development , they need long-term support from regional policy and special measures .
i am thinking , mr medina ortega , of a point you raised , the issue of transport , a point which has long been of interest to me , the matter of energy , renewable energies , energy sufficiency , and access to the various community programmes .
these new technologies and this information society are , ladies and gentlemen , not just a luxury for the richest regions of europe .
quite the opposite , i think that these new technologies , internet access , and all the employment opportunities related to these are a great opportunity for the remote or outermost regions .
that is why i personally strove to ensure that a significant part of the structural funds was dedicated to the information society , and access to this information society for farmers , small- and medium-sized businesses , and young people .
these results will be used towards a consultation debate , in partnership with national and regional authorities .
ladies and gentlemen , the third aspect concerns the role of the regions in their own geographical areas .
we are therefore going to initiate a study of the potential impact on the outermost regions of implementing the new acp agreement .
the first of these questioned what our future plans were , and asked for a multiannual programme .
we have undertaken , on this basis , to present annual action programmes , with timetables enabling us to gradually modulate our approach .
this group has also been assigned the task , and this is a response to another point in your report , of undertaking an ongoing examination of the various initiatives - according to one of your own recommendations - prepared by the commission , in order to ensure that the legitimate interests of the outermost regions are taken into account across the board in all community policies .
what is more , i check that this group is doing this properly on a monthly basis .
it applies to practical examples , but should also enable a periodic exchange of overviews on all subjects of concern to these regions .
it would again be possible to organise a meeting of this kind in 2001 , by which time we shall have made more progress in carrying out the programme presented in march .
in conclusion - with apologies if i have spoken too long , which i probably have , but these are important issues which i feel very strongly about - i should like to reiterate the last paragraph of the conclusions of our march report in order to stress the fact that , in our opinion , the future of these regions will be determined to a great extent by the success of the strategy which we have proposed in this report , but this success will also be extremely significant for the european union as a whole , as it will have proven its capacity to successfully take on one of the most complex challenges that exist in europe .
i am actively working , together with my fellow commissioners , for the initiatives which i mentioned on the basis of the march report .
i shall then , with your participation , if you are willing , devote my attention to conducting the dialogue on european issues - and the future and the place of the outermost regions form part of these issues .
at grass-roots level , as i started to do in the azores , it is my intention in the coming months , as soon as the intergovernmental conference is over , to visit each of these regions in order to meet you , work with you , meet the civic , social , professional and political groupings and , also , as i regularly do , to discuss matters with the people of your regions .
thank you very much , commissioner barnier .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . ( the sitting was closed at 12 midnight )
it will be recalled that there was one particular vote in the plenary session on my report that was resolved by a majority of one vote .
this has profound implications for this house , for acp countries and for europe as a whole .
i say profound implications because this house wants more and more democratic accountability .
mr president , mr evans has just referred to yesterday morning ' s vote , specifically to the vote at which certain amendments were adopted by a majority of one .
i believe it is as well for parliament to keep to the current rules because , as another member rightly said , very often it is not the machines that did not work but the members that forgot to vote ; if we were able to correct a vote after the event , we would never see the end of it .
we had a good example in the final vote on mr evans ' report .
i should also like to refer to the 19 amendments we have before us on this report .
as feuerbach said : " der mensch ist , was er isst , " man is what he eats .
we are what we eat - and sadly that is true in my case .
my report proposes the establishment of a european food safety agency which should be authoritative , independent , objective , accountable , transparent and intelligible .
its task is risk assessment and then giving advice on that risk management .
the director of the esfa is key .
there needs to be an annual report and presentation to parliament and risk reports coming to the commission , parliament and the council .
scientists need to give a report on assessment to the board who then makes sure that it is in terms the consumers understand , add any recommendations on risk management and submit it to the commission and to us .
i thank my colleagues of all parties and all member states .
i thank the commission and its staff .
i thank the council and the french presidency for their messages of support .
we have here a proposal which can work to improve the safety of our foods , to restore the confidence of the public in our respective nations .
both this food authority and the legislative proposals being proposed , which aim to guarantee food safety , will receive the support of this house , commissioner .
but i would like to draw attention to a fundamental issue : the best possible legislation and an excellent , scientifically unimpeachable food authority are not enough .
we may have other food crises and , each time this happens , consumer safety will be endangered , as will the credibility of the institutions and the interests of the agricultural sector and the agri-foodstuffs industry .
i therefore ask the commission what it plans to do in order to make the objectives of the white paper reality .
recent experience has shown that the series of crises is not due to a lack of scientific knowledge nor to a lack of ad hoc legislation .
all in all , commissioner , along with the authority , the relevant commission services must , in collaboration and coordination with the member states , establish a system of efficient , standardised controls throughout the food chain , and the network of food laboratories in the european union must be improved and their work coordinated with the commission .
setting up the european food safety agency is a major step in the right direction .
its key task is providing scientific advice , for the discussion on food safety must be pure too .
the food authority must provide objective information to both consumers and decision makers .
finally , my committee argues in favour of a strategy for third countries and candidate countries .
first , there is no doubt that legal provisions in the field of food safety and animal feed safety need to be simplified .
furthermore , they are right to demand that they have an important say , through their parliament , when food and animal feed safety with a view to protecting their health is at stake .
we must make it clear , however , that the rapid alert system and the implementation of the measures must fall within the field of political responsibility .
that is where the european commission , the council and the european parliament come into play .
it must be independent with regard to the member states , the european institutions and the agro-food industry .
i have also had an opportunity to discuss this with commissioner david byrne .
to conclude , the brief of the european food safety agency must be confined to food safety .
mr president , quite often a parliamentary colleague is given a report and you envy him or her .
we have a stark reminder this week of why we are all here and why this legislation is going through in the report in my own country - the phillips committee of inquiry into the disaster , indeed scandal , of bse .
to have such a body introduced in the european parliament as part of a raft of similar measures , which will increase our concern and care for food safety in the european union , is a good outcome to what has been a sad tale .
i will mention briefly the key amendments which i commend to the house and the commissioner and which i hope we can see voted through today .
we want the efsa to have a board which has a balanced representation of people in consumer affairs , public health and all possible areas of scientific and agricultural knowledge .
of course many of them will have had links with the food industry , links with science elsewhere .
that is understandable and natural , but we need to know how and who and where and we should be able to do so .
we must wait patiently for the commission to come forward with legislation on other matters in the food safety area - pcb standards , food labelling , allergy labelling , action on nutrition policy and the amending legislation we need for processed baby foods and infant formulae .
finally , we will also be supporting a number of the new amendments , certainly amendments nos 11-13 , 7-9 and we wish to have a free vote on amendment no 14 .
the report is right to draw a distinction between risk analysis on the one hand and risk management on the other .
that means that when food safety agency safety is examined , all products are taken into consideration , and i would refer to paragraph 11 of the resolution in this connection .
these crises , such as bse and dioxin , have become a real problem for society and lead to a loss of consumer confidence in the food they eat .
any initiative to help identify these risks is therefore a move in the right direction .
as it often does , the commission is proposing regulatory measures to remedy or alleviate the adverse effects of a policy for which it is frequently jointly responsible , without in any way questioning its own basic approach .
but let us make sure we leave it to the member states to manage these risks and to apply the precautionary principle in a reasonable and proportionate manner .
indeed , who better than the member states to carry out adequate local checks ?
who better than the member states to distinguish genuinely dangerous products from those deriving from our different food cultures , even when they pose no health risk at all ?
let us ask it to make recommendations to the political authorities responsible for risk management .
mr president , it is clear that there is considerable enthusiasm for the establishment of a european food safety agency , as our rapporteur would prefer to call it .
in the uk , as in many other countries , we have now set up our own agency amidst similar enthusiasm .
it started work this year and many had high expectations of it .
this notwithstanding , it may come as a surprise to members that i support the concept of a pan-european approach to food safety , which is embodied in the concept of the efsa .
despite so often being branded as a " little englander " by my british colleagues , i have no difficulty in acknowledging that germs know no boundaries .
thus , despite the enthusiasm for yet another eu agency , any effective control programme must look beyond the limited vision of a mere 15 states .
since 1984 we have had the highly effective world health organisation 's surveillance programme for the control of food-borne infections and intoxications in europe , based in berlin at the von ostertag-institut .
interestingly , unlike the little europeans who are so often behind this eu project , the who 's concept of europe originally embraced 32 countries , which included the former soviet union and has since expanded to include all countries from the urals to the atlantic , from iceland to israel .
as a result , many of the control initiatives which have subsequently been adopted in europe , have originated in other countries , particularly the usa .
risk assessment must start where the problems starts .
that is precisely what the who does for us : working with its regional organisations in a wholly integrated manner .
given that the who programme remains properly funded and supported , there would appear to be no need whatsoever for yet another agency , especially one with such a limited reach as the 15 member states of the european union .
but we need to avoid a situation in which the future european food safety agency and , for example , the food and veterinary office in dublin have overlapping responsibilities and powers .
not only the commission , but also every member state must be legally able to call upon this agency .
this principle must be consistently adhered to when the planned review of eu legislation on food labelling is carried out .
reliable risk assessment requires comprehensive analyses and reference measurements .
the joint research centre 's health and consumer protection institute is currently also carrying out pan-european quality and safety checks on food , and is amongst other things testing food for contamination and carrying out reference measurements for agricultural products and foodstuffs .
substantial financial means are needed for all these measures .
i wish to thank the rapporteur for that .
it was high time that the commission produced the white paper to follow the green paper published many years ago now .
we need to apply stricter legislation , stricter guidelines and stricter criteria to animal feed .
without a new framework directive we will be helpless in many areas of food safety .
i therefore want to discuss amendment no 16 .
when food safety is threatened , both public health and the common market are placed in jeopardy .
we believe that its main task must be that of assessing food safety risks and that its core activity must be that of providing scientific advice .
the white paper is a political paper for those in positions of responsibility in food production .
national peculiarities should not only be respected , but actually encouraged .
the commission will have to provide more concrete answers to these questions in its continued work .
the usefulness of the authority to be established is undeniable , both in terms of monitoring and in terms of prevention , for which , in any case , the precautionary principle does not provide adequate practical guidance .
a further aspect is the organic revision of the labelling rules for both wholesale and retail selling , which will at last provide the consumer with correct information regarding products ' traceability and make it possible to identify where responsibility lies in the event of risk or crises .
in short , it will be important to see how its independence and transparency are reconciled with the fact that no current resources have been allocated to it , with its subordination to the commission , on the one hand , and with its authority to act autonomously and the membership of its board of directors on the other .
mr president , commissioner byrne , i would like to start by thanking our friend , john bowis , for his excellent work on the white paper on food safety and , in particular , for including the various amendments tabled by different political groups .
the establishment of a european food safety agency will contribute greatly to achieving a high level of protection of citizens ' health .
the network must be as close to the citizens as possible and , in this way , their faith will be restored in the european national institutions .
mr president , parliament 's vote marks the end of this first stage of consultation on food safety issues .
i just hope that it will not also mark the end of the will to intervene rapidly and effectively in a sector which affects the daily lives of the citizens so closely and which is one of the principle benchmarks of our capacity to restore their faith in politics and in the institutions .
a european food strategy cannot be reduced merely to the creation of a monitoring authority and the application of a few - albeit necessary - health and hygiene rules .
there is an indissoluble relationship between eating healthily and eating well , a relationship of which consumers must be made more aware in order to promote quality and support the typical local products which are one of the great assets of the peoples of europe .
with the vote in the committee on the environment , we have succeeded in re-establishing a certain balance , including in the scope of the resolution nutrition issues and certain significant references to the role of small and medium-sized businesses in safeguarding diverse dietary habits .
i therefore believe that your amendment no 11 and my amendment no 17 are perfectly reconcilable .
i would single out two of these : we urgently need pcb standards at european level , as well as a positive list of ingredients of animal feed .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur for assembling the amendments of all the groups - as other members have said - in the compromise amendments .
i think he is pursuing an obvious objective which is - as he says in his document - that of guaranteeing the high levels of food safety that should exist , and a second objective that derives from the first , which is to say that of restoring credibility in the eyes of the consumer , which has been somewhat dented by scandals .
i would like to remind you of one that occurred in spain , the rape seed oil scandal - the consequences of which are still apparent now , after more than 20 years - but also the bse scandal , the dioxin scandal and the latest worrying scandal in the united states regarding the release , for use in food products , of transgenic sweetcorn that would seem to be unsuitable for consumption .
however , having said that , i believe it is to the credit of this parliament and commissioner byrne that food safety now dominates the european agenda .
the reform of european union food laws would be carried out at the level of the european union .
we want to avoid a situation where there may be a renationalisation of food purchasing within the european union .
that is why it is so important that food safety laws are enforced at european union level .
however , i fully support the introduction of clear , non-technical and standardised labelling in the context of gmo food products .
it can and must signal the start of a new beginning .
from now on , the policy will be tackled in a coordinated and integrated manner and will embrace the entire food chain .
i welcome the fact that rapporteur bowis , who has done sterling work , has opted for a positive approach to the white paper .
for example , it is right to stress that the food authority should first and foremost concentrate on food safety .
a second justified emphasis is the request for consideration to be given to regional and cultural differences in the food supply and to the role of the sme and the traditional trades in question .
both the white paper and the bowis report mention communication on the one hand and procedures in emergency situations on the other , but there is no attention to the internal and external crisis communication which is so desperately needed .
it can nevertheless - and we have first-hand experience of this in belgium - be a determining factor in managing the extent of a crisis and in whether consumer confidence in the institutions survives or not .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the white paper on food safety has laid a firm basis for better food in future and i am also hopeful of more environmentally-friendly and people-friendly production of food .
but i also understand that the many crises in europe , and i also refer to my own country , have shown that we mainly need something to hold on to .
i can understand if food safety has to be the point of departure , but surely links must be established with other areas , such as the environment , health and such like .
i hope that an energetic , future authority can get this dynamic going .
this is in the interests of consumers , but also , at the same time , the food chain in europe .
the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy has now come to adopt a reasonable policy , as there is now the desire to create a scientific , authoritative body from the food safety agency , which would have responsibility for risk assessment and keeping the public informed .
the agency must be located somewhere well-connected in terms of transport and information technology , and the area in question should have a good reputation in the area of food safety .
support from the surrounding scientific community will also be an important factor when choosing a location .
for that reason , i support amendment nos 14 and 19 , which express a desire for principled guidance in deciding a future location .
it is , however , important to define what we expect from the food safety agency and what sort of criteria should apply in selecting its location .
they include good reputation in the field of food safety , independence , and good scientific infrastructure incorporating the best available technology and good transport and telecommunications links .
these criteria will all be essential tools in realising the common aim to restore consumer confidence in european food safety as soon as possible .
the white paper on food safety is a proposal which aspires to restore consumer confidence in the entire food chain .
this is why the new european food safety agency must become a powerful and independent body which does not only inform the public but is also given specific powers to propose effective measures in good time and to investigate problems in the event of a crisis .
in the final analysis , decisions must be taken by the european commission , and parliament must , for example by means of a discussion on the annual report , remain involved in the work of the agency .
i believe they succeeded in this extremely well , and we shall now welcome legislation in this field as soon as possible .
mr president , while the european food chain is one of the safest in the world , poor practice , and indeed recent scandals , have set an agenda to which our commissioner , mr byrne , has responded admirably .
the eu must have the highest possible standards of food safety for its citizens .
food safety and public health are key political priorities .
european action is appropriate because in a single market risk does not stop at national borders .
the efsa should play an important role in the existing rapid alert system , which should be improved and extended to cover all areas of food safety , including animal feed .
the limited quantity of food we still allow ourselves must first and foremost be healthy , taste good and be produced in an environmentally sound way in consumers ' eyes .
in the european single market , which implies free trade and movement of goods , we are increasingly faced with the issue of legislative jurisdiction and responsibility for controls in this area , which is so important for the european public .
but this concept also plays a key role in food safety .
the consistency of the white paper on food safety leaves something to be desired in places .
but i intend to ask whether those cards should have been dealt at all .
we already have food safety agencies in most member states .
we have scientific committees advising the commission .
the location of the agency should therefore be not in barcelona , helsinki or italy , but on the internet , in cyberspace .
there must be clear arrangements governing the agency 's cooperation with the joint research centre in ispra and the food and veterinary office in dublin .
you must prevent several institutions carrying out similar work in parallel .
you should also use the white paper to enforce strict rules in the member states .
if the proposals for over 80 legislative measures are much the same as the hygiene rules i have now received as rapporteur , then i am very optimistic .
however , commissioner , when it comes to the provisions on labelling , please think again about your ideas ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to congratulate mr bowis on his excellent work .
however , it is also necessary to call for a balanced approach to the issue because articles 152 and 153 of the treaty on european union provide , as a general rule , for a high level of protection of human health and of consumers .
we must therefore ensure that the european union has the highest possible food safety standards , but in taking this approach - which we unanimously uphold - we must also analyse the economic implications for the sectors involved in production .
article 2 of the treaty states that the union is committed to promoting the harmonious , balanced , sustainable development of economic activities .
therefore , any legislative measure concerning a sector such as the food sector , which is one of the driving forces of european industry - accounting for 15 % of the total output of the manufacturing sector and employing 2.5 million workers - must be evaluated on the basis of this twin consideration , since both principles are intended to guarantee the general well-being of the community .
any consumer protection operation only becomes feasible in terms of profit when it avoids unduly damaging the general economic well-being of the community through placing disproportionate barriers in the way of the sector 's production processes and therefore hampering economic growth and growth in employment .
mr president , developing an independent european food safety agency is a major objective which must be achieved in conjunction with the national structures responsible for monitoring .
we must , however , ensure that in the wake of the debate on the white paper , the fear of a bureaucratic europe which concerns itself with the quality of products without doing anything effective to combat fraud that threatens the health of the consumer is not reinforced in the mind of the public .
a strategy which covers the entire food chain , from farming to production and distribution , could facilitate further economic concentration to the detriment of smaller companies and companies producing typical products , without creating any real advantage for the consumers .
the objective of food safety can and must fit in with this grass-roots situation which , as a large number of members have stressed , is of cultural as well as economic value .
upon careful examination of the white paper in the member states and here in parliament , it will then be given legislative status in the form of a new draft directive .
amendments have been tabled to that effect .
as you are aware , the commission attaches the highest priority to its strategy on food safety .
i must give special thanks to the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy and its rapporteur , john bowis , for producing this opinion with such a degree of consensus and pay particular tribute to him and to the other members of this house who have taken the time to discuss these issues with me and with my officials .
european consumers have every right to expect the highest achievable food safety standards and our ambition is to develop systems that deliver this .
several proposals are already before the council and parliament : for example , the package of proposals recasting and updating the hygiene legislation .
the white paper reiterates the commission 's commitment to basing its proposals for consumer health protection measures on sound science .
indeed , the food authority is conceived as a point of scientific excellence at the service of the community in its broadest sense : consumers , the institutions and member states alike .
the food authority will also need to be visible to the general public and be the authoritative voice in matters relating to the scientific aspects of food safety in europe .
the commission intends to adopt a proposal for a regulation establishing the overarching principles and objectives of food law , which will provide the framework for future health protection measures relating to food .
this proposal will put forward the establishment of a european food safety agency which will provide the community with advice on scientific and technical issues and thereby enable the commission to give effect to the general principles of food law .
our intention is to adopt this proposal in the commission on 8 november 2000 .
this schedule continues to reflect the importance the commission attaches to the matter and is broadly in line with the timescale set out in the white paper which envisages that the establishing legislation will be enacted in 2001 , leading to the establishment of the food authority in 2002 .
i have followed parliament 's debate on the white paper with great interest .
i am encouraged to note the high degree of agreement between parliament 's views as expressed in the draft report that you have debated , and the white paper itself .
this will facilitate the commission 's task in bringing forward a balanced proposal that takes maximum account of the views of parliament and the many stakeholders in the area of food safety .
i have previously acknowledged in parliament and other forums what i regard as an important issue for the fullest acceptance of our ideas for a food authority : the role and involvement of parliament itself in enacting the legislation establishing the food authority .
it is right and proper and i support parliament 's desire to see articles 95 and 152 of the treaty employed to this effect .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , this is not the first time that parliament has tackled the issue of anti-personnel landmines .
certainly , much remains to be done , and this is why we must all welcome the commission 's proposal as a positive step .
turning to our report , i welcome the commission 's proposal as positive , and i have to say that the committee on foreign affairs , security and defence policy and the committee on development and cooperation have worked extremely hard in order to improve it - if this was possible - on certain points in particular .
i would just like to mention a few of these points which , with regard to parliament 's proposal , seem important and , in any case , represent a tangible step forward in this matter .
firstly - and we hope that parliament will support us in this - we stress the need to destroy the stockpiles of anti-personnel landmines still held by many countries , including signatory countries , because we feel that parliament often talks about stockpile destruction as preventative action without really knowing what it is referring to .
the second point has to do with a whole series of elements - which i hope parliament will approve - regarding budget lines .
commissioner , in addition to further simplifying your proposal - thereby arriving at three budget lines : one general , one relating to research and one relating to humanitarian landmine clearance - we have further simplified the proposed comitology , and we hope that parliament will approve this , considering that an advisory committee will suffice instead of a management committee , for the very reason that , in the interests of coherent interpretation , we feel that the commission is responsible for implementing the budget and must account for it with total transparency .
another important element is that parliament is not asking for anything general but requests eur 200 million over the period 2000-2006 , plus the funds to be allocated to research , plus the humanitarian heading , for we are indeed - we hope - talking about action and not just a resolution .
moreover , precisely because the sum is so large - eur 200 million - a considerable increase on past provision - we would like the commission to establish an internal unit for anti-personnel landmine action , precisely in order to increase the transparency and cohesion of this activity .
from this perspective , these seem to me to be the characteristic elements facilitating responsible management and transparency .
the final point concerns the amendments .
the european union must be united in its action and ensure that the production of landmines is stopped , that all stockpiles are destroyed and that the ground is cleared of mines , and that assistance and means of social and economic inclusion is provided for their victims , who include many children , while safeguarding the development of the community affected .
in this sense , there must be a sharp focus on the issue and actions must be undertaken to further raise awareness in order to prevent the matter fading into obscurity .
a great many issues remain unresolved , especially since countries such as the united states have not yet signed the convention and countries such as china and russia hold enormous stockpiles .
europe must find a way to ensure that these stockpiles are eliminated from history but linger in our memories as a reminder that we must stop killing people with our lethal products .
it would be desirable if the commission could tell us what it intends to do in this area , particularly with regard to the countries applying to join the european union .
but of course its authority in this field will be greater if the council and the member states explicitly state that the european union will under no circumstances in its external relations use anti-personnel landmines or help in their use .
it is , however , essential to ensure the greatest coherence and coordination between the actions taken by the european union and those taken by the member states .
the commission ' s draft regulation seems too vague .
we are firmly in favour of setting up a single budget line for action against landmines , except for research and food aid , and i believe it would be beneficial at the same time to set up a central unit coordinating all actions in this field , as mentioned by mrs bonino .
afterwards we must invest more in research , especially research into the detection of mines placed in the ground .
lastly , it is crucial that we reinforce mine-clearance action by ensuring the effectiveness of the actions taken and by giving priority to the countries that respect the convention , just as it is also essential that we guarantee victim rehabilitation measures .
i would also like the commission to explain in greater detail what it intends to do in these fields , bearing in mind past experience and the important role that the european union has taken on in this area .
the field of action is , of course , vast and requires funding and great political will .
for this reason it is extremely positive that the commission and the european union are tackling this subject as a whole and wish to ensure that a coordinated policy is adopted in this area .
i say this because we do indeed need coordination between the efforts of europe and other international players , areas benefiting from development funds or actions directly administered by the commission .
not all countries have yet signed the international conventions , nor have they been ratified by all countries , for a wide variety of reasons .
i also believe that there must be a proper political framework in these regions so as to give such governments the political power to escape from this vicious circle , which means that , ostensibly , in trying to provide protection for themselves they ultimately harm their own population in the long term .
it was parliament which first raised , in 1996 , the issue of a horizontal budget line and of a proper legal base to provide a single platform for the wide range of actions that we undertake in this important field .
parliament was instrumental in galvanising the union into taking a proactive role at the ottawa conference in 1997 , which led to the conclusion of the convention to ban and eradicate landmines .
it is the challenge of implementing that convention to the full which led the commission to reflect on how to reinforce the contribution of the european union to the battle against landmines .
i should also like to mention the key role played by civil society , by highly motivated non-governmental organisations and , in particular , by the international campaign to ban landmines .
their efforts are essential for the successful implementation of the convention and their pressure on governments around the world has contributed tremendously to the encouraging record of ratification and accession .
over the last eight years we have contributed over eur 200 million from the community budget to the fight against landmines .
in 1999 alone the union spent more than eur 100 million of which eur 30 million was for community projects , far more than any other international player .
the european union has a clear position , set out in the 1997 joint action on extending signature and ratification of the ottawa convention to as many countries as possible .
but i cannot hide this fact : the union 's powers of persuasion in seeking to achieve this goal are obviously somewhat limited by the remaining difficulties of some member states in signing and ratifying the convention .
the communication and the draft regulation provide for a degree of conditionality in this respect , but we should not be too dogmatic .
we have to acknowledge the specific situation in certain countries .
we should not penalise people who need our help , even if their governments are not yet sufficiently committed to the implementation of the convention .
this is not community acquis in the strict legal sense of that term , but we will obviously encourage them to do away with mines in their defence , to stop manufacturing mines or trading in them , and to sign and ratify the mine ban treaty .
i should like to draw parliament 's attention to the slovenia international trust fund which , in only two years of operation , has set up a regional mine-action programme with support from the european union , the united states and a number of other countries , with projects throughout the balkans .
so i would argue against amendment no 18 .
while i understand and respect the ambition behind the proposal to concentrate all funds for mine action under the horizontal budget line , with the exception of echo and research lines , i am not convinced that this gives us the necessary flexibility to maximise the effectiveness of european union interventions .
it may be that over time the horizontal line will attract more attention and more appreciation , but we also need to maintain the link to broader national or regional programming through the geographic budget lines and regulations .
i myself would say no to proposed amendments nos 3 , 16 and 21 .
i would propose to say no to amendment no 17 .
parliament knows that there are far too many of them already and as the house knows , under our proposals for the reform of ec external assistance , we hope to move away from the heavy handed scrutiny of individual projects and instead focus our discussion with member states on overall strategies and programming .
therefore the commission cannot accept amendments nos 8 , 22 , 23 , 25 and 29 .
the adoption of this regulation constitutes a small , but in my judgment an important step along that road .
mr president , some of us have been involved for many years in trying to overcome the scourge of anti-personnel landmines .
the anti-personnel landmine campaign should not be used as an opportunity to attack western governments , particularly the united states , western military establishments , or western industry .
for the most part , western governments are not the problem but part of the solution .
we should concentrate our political attention on the real culprits : warring factions and irresponsible governments who have shown no concern about civil populations and who use anti-personnel landmines as indiscriminate weapons of terror .
secondly , the international community needs to improve the coordination of its efforts both at the global level and particularly within the afflicted countries .
multiannual funding for mine action must be concentrated on a single budget line and there must be a properly resourced unit within the commission , specifically responsible not just for the policy framework but also for the planning and implementation of mine action , including contracts .
i took two things away from that experience : you need the experts , in this case the old soldiers of the norwegian people 's aid and the local population - a crucial component - and you then need to clear the mines strategically .
this got me onto the idea of not working with the national angolan authority or via complex structures in the first instance , but of simply working with the authorities through strong ngos among the local population in a well-organised manner , as is being attempted in angola .
i believe that , as far as that is concerned , you and parliament are on the same side .
finally , i should like to thank mrs bonino .
mr president , very rarely from within the established power structures does anything new emerge .
all the institutions of the eu must work on their own initiative and in a way that the poor countries that suffer worst from the mines problem are effectively included in the programme .
however , i should like to make the following comment : the number of mines placed increases in direct proportion to the international community 's inability to find political solutions to major problems .
when , for example , a country feels insecure along its border with another country , its government will take recourse , wrongly of course , to the easy option of a minefield .
these death traps , set off by chance by the victims themselves , sometimes many years after a conflict is over , are real time bombs that hinder the social and economic recovery of whole regions and the rehabilitation of the victims themselves .
as a signatory to the appeal for a world without mines , i fervently support emma bonino 's report , because it is heading in the right direction .
moreover , the european union as a whole and the candidate countries must sign the ottawa convention and , more importantly , ratify it .
one point that ngo representatives have criticised in conversation with me is the combination of military activity with ngo work found in points 11 and 15 of the resolution .
in the course of many years ' work , the ngos have won people 's confidence and respect , and i fear that such a combination could compromise the independence of the ngos and permanently damage their relationship of trust with people in need .
i therefore very much welcome the fact that this new regulation is to implement that convention with an eu strategy for improving the coordination , coherence , transparency and control of these actions on mines .
the european union also has to live up to its claim to play a leading role in this area .
as we have already heard today , parliament has been dealing with this subject for many years .
mines are of course a great obstacle to reconstruction in these countries and to the return of refugees .
the european union is often the most important contributor to financing de-mining actions , and international actions are carried out in the relevant countries .
the problem of anti-personnel mines is too big for the regions directly affected , and also for the refugees in the areas involved , so that without international cooperation it is not possible to provide effective support here .
the international community must adopt a coherent and coordinated approach .
for the coming year , the council and the commission have agreed to reduce the total to eur 7,400,000 and parliament proposes an increase of eur 3 million compared with the year 2000 .
these figures are not much to solve a problem that affects 110 million people in 64 countries , 26,000 victims of mutilations every year and , vitally , the many children who are described in countries such as el salvador as the broken children , as these children are maimed , missing their hands , arms or legs .
i therefore ask that the importance of increasing this amount be conveyed to the council , which is not represented here , and to the commission , given that unfortunately , for each mine that is cleared , between 20 and 50 others are laid .
at the current de-mining rate it would - as was mentioned earlier - take well over 100 years to clear the planet of anti-personnel landmines .
my own country took all too long to do so , unfortunately .
i believe it is healthy to strengthen the civil obligations of any organisation which has military activities .
the first area is that of prevention .
when i think of the problems and the events in developing countries , such as those in the acp area or in central america , it is evident that things cannot continue like this .
in particular , research initiatives in this area need to be supported , especially those concerned with technology for detecting and clearing mines .
i witnessed the suffering of mine victims with my own eyes during and after the war in bosnia , in 1992 , 1995 and 1999 .
with regard to the enlargement of the eu , the candidate countries absolutely must sign the ottawa convention .
mr president , one day in december 1992 , a young shepherd in mozambique forgot the risk : he thought it had gone with the coming of peace .
but a mine is impervious to peace agreements and continues , inexorably , to do its job .
even though 139 states have now signed the ottawa convention , mines are still doing their job of destruction .
every 20 minutes somewhere in the world a mine will explode , bringing death or mutilation .
however , the progress made should not blind us to the reality , and that reality is a total of 27 people killed and another 41 mutilated every single day .
the reality is 250 million mines in the arsenals of 105 countries .
even last year , mines were used in 20 conflicts , mainly in europe .
so i welcome the work done by my fellow members , emma bonino and luisa morgantini , who have once again brought the political debate into the heart of this parliament .
whatever the outcome , we will all of us together show that we are determined to fight against what has to be called ' a cowards ' war ' .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , war is a cruel way of solving people ' s differences .
too many children have lost their lives or become crippled while playing in a danger zone .
in some countries there are more mines than there are truffles in france , and both are as hard to find .
the history we share with our neighbour has often been full of anguish .
there can be no development without safe roads , without suitable land for cultivation and without places where children can play freely .
that is why the european union joined and has come to play a leading role in the international campaign started by the united nations , as has already been mentioned by the previous speakers .
i must stress that for this to occur the effort of the european union must be more cohesive , bringing in finland and greece ; the european union must coordinate all its power to exert international pressure on those countries that have not yet accepted the ottawa convention ; and the european effort must become more effective , for example through an increase in funding , taking into account the need for safe mine clearance , the systematic destruction of existing stockpiles and the further development of advanced mine detection and clearance technologies .
this effort must also be made more effective through coordination and monitoring of the processes , giving ngos a more extensive role to play .
lastly , i hope that among the future tasks of the european common military force will be the training of technicians , particularly of people with a local interest in the eradication of landmines .
mr president , the finnish government last debated the question of anti-personnel mines on 14 june 1999 .
at the time it was decided to look into how finland might be a party to the ottawa convention in 2006 and replace anti-personnel mines with other defence methods by the end of 2010 .
the finns are involved in international cooperation with regard to mine clearance .
experts from finland and finnish clearance vehicles have taken part in clearance programmes in cambodia for two and a half years , and in mozambique and kosovo for one year .
as party to the convention , finland complies with the regulations in the amended mine protocol in the convention on conventional weapons 1996 , which came into force in december 1998 .
until a replacement military arrangement , which costs approximately half of finland ' s defence budget for one year , is in place , anti-personnel mines will remain a part of the defence arrangement .
finland has never engaged in the export of anti-personnel mines and none have been manufactured in the country since 1981 .
finland is one of the unfortunately few countries in the world that sign and ratify international agreements only when they can meet the conditions they contain to the last letter .
we are talking about millions of people killed or maimed , between 70 and 100 million mines that could explode at any time , anywhere in 60 countries .
the reports give less emphasis to the fact that the majority of those mines were manufactured outside the countries in which they are buried .
fortunately , emphasis is placed , however , on the fact that the mines constitute a fundamental obstacle to the development of these regions in addition to a lethal threat of death and distress . ( interruption by the president to request silence ) courage is needed in the face of the reality with which mrs bonino and mrs morgantini present us if we are not to fall victim to despair .
and here , as in other contexts , the actions of the european union and parliament itself give reason for confidence , for reconciliation with our own kind , as with this step forward , this commission regulation that we are trying to improve in this parliamentary procedure , reaffirming our commitment and our hope .
this perspective will guide our amendments and our votes .
to close the debate , i have received one proposal for a resolution , pursuant to article 42 ( 5 ) of the rules of procedure .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 12 noon .
i therefore propose , mr president , that we refer this report back to committee , for cleaning up , so that this historic vote is not polluted by formal inconsistencies .
but as a result of this little textual substitution we have let fall by the wayside an important principle that the european parliament has always called for .
the fact is that , whatever our opinion on either side , whether we are for or against a constitution , we all agree that our parliament should give its assent .
thanks to this substitution , the term found in the original paragraph has been left out .
you have just said to amendment no 8 ( or so i understood from the interpretation ) .
the responsibility for these actions lies above all in the insanity of the heads of state and government of many of the world 's states , and in the insanity of too many citizens who believe they can resolve their problems through war .
the idea that technology , know-how and money is spent on creating weapons that destroy people and the environment is unacceptable .
the danish social democrats have voted in favour of the report on action to be taken against anti-personnel mines .
the commission ' s communication sets out what actions the community has already participated in to combat the use of anti-personnel mines .
the commission therefore proposes that initiatives be taken to set up a horizontal budget line .
parliament supports this solution because the present structure , with many different budget lines , is not transparent and does not contribute to coherent intervention .
it is still uncertain what legal base the commission wants to propose for this initiative .
finland has produced and stored anti-personnel mines exclusively for its own defence needs .
we in this parliament discuss tyre pressures and the length of vehicles , but we have not yet succeeded in grasping how important it is for there to be a common regulation throughout the 15 member states establishing a decent minimum pension .
the van lancker report outlines a few general principles , such as the right to a pension or a minimum salary and the right to strike , something the eu council ' s text , the only one with the value of a decision , does not even mention .
for the rest , the rapporteur calls on parliament to approve the supposed social policy the commission has proposed to the council , in other words , to approve a total vacuum , for there is not a single practical measure likely to improve the situation of the workers .
this agenda , which goes back to an initiative by the french presidency , is a genuine programme of work for the next five years .
it is in keeping with the decisions of the lisbon european council , whose main conclusions relate to establishing a more competitive knowledge-based economy and achieving full employment .
the van lancker report takes account of some of the proposals made by civil society and experts at the joint conference on the subject between the european commission and the european parliament on 21 and 22 september 2000 .
it highlights the existence and reality of the european social model , but also the need to bring it up to date .
we do not have the right to disappoint our citizens .
the social agenda must therefore be very ambitious in order to confirm that social , economic and employment policies are closely interlinked and interacting , and that they must have equal status in the community policy triangle , with the aim of improving the social quality of life for all .
this is a very fair and balanced social programme and is one of the very central planks of the irish government ' s national development plan for the seven-year period post-1999 .
it offers a global and coherent vision of what a genuine social policy could look like , by linking economic , social and employment aspects .
it uses all the instruments that now exist at european union level - the social charter , the employment chapter , the legal base of article 13 - to combat all forms of discrimination , etc .
he calls for the role of the social partners concerned , and dialogue with them , to be reinforced in the framing of legislation .
however , in the event of dispute , our committee urges the executive commission to make use of its right of initiative and to propose adequate legislation .
it is important to achieve a more social europe , therefore to have more european social legislation .
furthermore , the rapporteur asks us to support the member states in their endeavours to establish a minimum wage and the right to a minimum pension so that every individual can live in dignity .
according to mrs van lancker , working hours in europe must be shortened significantly , the body of eu socio-political legislation must be increased substantially , the levels of social protection in europe must be raised massively , the power of the trade union movement increased and supranational labour market negotiations made possible , labour organisations must be given greater rights to be heard , and socio-political influence must be a priority in all sectors of the economy , in competition policy and in public procurements .
we have voted against mrs van lancker ' s report on the social policy agenda .
the commission ' s new political agenda proposes a framework in which all important actors can play a role and in which the differences between the national systems are respected .
the commission will use its right of initiative and support the member states in bringing necessary changes about .
we also believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions must be made as close as possible to those they affect .
all other issues must be dealt with at local , regional or national levels .
with the third social action programme , the commission is underscoring the recognition that economic policy , employment policy and social policy need to be more closely interlinked .
many of the demands made in the van lancker report are not acceptable .
for example , the luxembourg process which applies to employment policy is to be extended to social protection and social exclusion .
this method of determining community objectives and implementing national action programmes which are assessed annually - including by the european parliament - is so successful precisely because new qualitative and quantitative objectives are formulated whilst simultaneously strictly adhering to the principle of subsidiarity .
the rapporteur has departed from the principle of subsidiarity out of a sheer desire to adopt centralist solutions .
the eplp feels that this is already dealt with by member state legislation and is also covered in the charter of fundamental rights .
the eplp could not support the call for a legislative arrangement for worker participation in the framework of the european company statute as the industrial relations dimension is dealt with in other legislation .
finally , the eplp feels that the new directives in the field of combating discrimination under article 13 have not yet had a chance to be implemented or bed down .
therefore the eplp has voted against the proposals for new vertical directives , as further legislation would be premature .
biarritz informal european council mr president , during yesterday ' s debate the council pointed out that in biarritz the governments ' positions had begun to converge on the principle of extending qualified majority voting .
but we regard this transfer as very dangerous , for it would deprive the national parliaments of any right of inspection in regard to future wto negotiations on these areas that are vital to the life of our societies .
if that proposal were accepted , we may be sure that in the coming six months the commission would impose another version of the multilateral agreement on investment on us , the infamous mai which it was possible to reject , two years ago , only because it came under strictly intergovernmental procedures .
the second category of decisions that would cause us concern if they were to be decided by qualified majority voting relates to immigration and the international movement of persons , which , under article 67 of the ec treaty , require unanimity for at least five years after the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam but can then be decided by a majority .
the major powers , such as germany , france , the united kingdom and , to some extent , italy , are all agreed in their desire to dominate the small countries of eastern or southern europe that are applying for accession to the european union .
at the same time , each country is seeking to ensure its own supremacy and to guarantee the interests of its own industrial or financial groups .
as for the charter of fundamental rights , the only reason the meeting of heads of state and government signed it was in order to be seen to make a statement .
mr president , i abstained from voting on the resolution on the results of the informal biarritz european council for two reasons : firstly , because i had the opportunity to vote in person on paragraphs 2 and 5 separately , which allowed me to express my total opposition to both .
as paragraph 7 says , it is absolutely necessary to ensure that solutions are valid and acceptable to all member states , regardless of their size or economic weight .
however , for legal reasons we think that it is wrong to refer to it at this early stage in article 6 of the treaty on european union , because it was not possible to reach formal agreement on it within the convention , reflecting its structure , and it therefore has no legal status .
it is for these reasons alone that we have not voted for both parts of point 2 of the resolution .
i voted for this resolution because in it parliament wisely does not opt for the ' imperialist ' theses of the large , populous european countries against the self-affirmation of the others .
the resolution limits itself to a responsible vote so that a sensible balance can be found based on the history of the community .
europe was created by treaties concluded , obviously , between equal states .
moreover , over and above the legal aspect , europe is a great family of civilisations in emotional terms .
now , the idea of closer cooperation means that in crucial areas , such as money , defence and taxation , some members of the european family would have more rights and obligations than others .
some would have a say about money while others , like denmark or sweden , would have to hold their tongue .
as we saw before the existence of total , universal suffrage , there would be active " peoples " and observer " peoples " .
there would , in a sense , be " males " with the right to talk war , taxes and money and , as in pre-1945 france , " females " sitting round the table with no right to decide .
moreover , in this ' variable-geometry ' europe , the number of guests with the right to eat a la carte would vary depending on the subject under discussion in the european council of ministers and this state of affairs would create further complexity in a europe whose way of operating is already quite obscure .
moreover , even the heads of state and government have not been able to reach agreement on this issue , and it is to be carried over to the forthcoming nice summit .
and yet there are so many urgent issues to be dealt with : 1 ) the need to define an economic policy which will rescue the euro from the stagnant depths to which it has plunged and boost employment ; 2 ) the need to attract investment to the union in order to break out of the economic slump ; 3 ) the need to revise employment regulations to make the market more dynamic and more responsive ; or 4 ) the need to define a common line for a coherent diplomatic action to safeguard peace in the middle east , etc .
all of these issues are extremely important and urgent in terms of the union 's future and the function which it ought to be performing in the world .
however , as is often the case with these summits , the celebratory final declarations conceal a reality which is much more banal : the fifteen have not succeeded in establishing a common policy and the progress made with the unveiling of rights does not take away from the need to tackle the practical problems encountered by millions of families and entire categories of producers and workers .
a summit which tackles these issues would show the validity of such an institution once and for all , and would send a signal of confidence and hope to the citizens of the union .
duhamel report ( a5-0289 / 2000 ) mr president , we voted against the duhamel report on the european constitution because , following the well-established monnet recipe , seeking to make a fundamental political about-turn under cover of technical considerations , without ever clearly telling people that the main intention is to put an end to a concept of europe under which each nation primarily obeys its national constitution .
in the explanatory statement , the rapporteur says a little more about this and maintains that the treaty is already broadly supranational , largely as a result of the court of justice ' s case-law interpretations .
in our view , however , the interpretations of 15 judges , which go beyond the treaties as ratified , are clearly improper and we are still waiting for them to be submitted for the approval of the peoples of the member states .
elsewhere , the rapporteur repeats the new theory in vogue in brussels of the supposed dual legitimacy of the european union : that of the citizens represented by the european parliament and that of the states represented by the council .
that is not the theory as set out in the treaty , which recognises only one form of legitimacy , namely , and i quote , that of : " the peoples of the states brought together in the community " , according to the wording of articles 189 and 190 of the ec treaty .
this wording means that the community brings together only the states , each of which depends on the support of its people .
in no case do the meps represent the european citizens in general .
they represent their respective peoples and , by that token , cooperate in the european scrutiny of the states , but that scrutiny remains complementary , because the main power of scrutiny falls within the remit of the national parliaments .
in other words , the fact that meps represent their respective peoples in no way modifies the nature of the community .
it in no way has the effect of placing some phantom european citizen above the national citizens , even less of placing an artificial european democracy above the national democracies or even on the same footing with them .
mr president , i voted against the duhamel report because i do not believe that we are taking the right approach .
this project has been sold on the idea of a constitution for the people , which is all well and good , but if you have a single constituency you are diluting the power of the individuals in the member states .
there has been talk about referenda and the amendments that were made to this report in relation to referenda .
referenda are very important , but in the case of a single constituency , where you ignore almost 50 % in a member state who may vote against it , this is not democratic .
it is interesting to see people putting forward the idea of a referendum in this way because if you consider the changes that have taken place in the treaties over the years , the single european act , the maastricht treaty and the treaty of amsterdam , very few citizens in the individual member states have had a say and , as a result , we are not sure what the citizens in the member states want .
but i am deeply disturbed , mr president , that it is possible here in this chamber for a member of the left - i have forgotten now who it was - to call elected members of this house " polluters " of this chamber , without you calling that member to order .
we believe that the basis for cooperation in the eu should continue to be unanimity on the basic questions concerning the legal base on which the eu is founded .
only 40 per cent of people voted in the 1999 elections to the european parliament , if countries with voting duties are discounted , as well as those which had national elections at the same time as elections to the european parliament .
now , in september 2000 , the danes have voted against membership of emu , and people in a number of other member states would certainly have voted against the emu project , given the opportunity .
the portuguese socialist meps voted for the duhamel report on the constitutionalisation of the treaties essentially because they agree with the need for the european union to simplify and organise the fundamental texts that govern it , which today have become virtually unreadable on account of the complexity introduced by the successive accumulation of treaties .
to this end , it is essential that the european union should move towards a constitution that incorporates the charter of fundamental rights .
the experience of a full democracy in the european union has everything to gain from the approval of a constitution that is clear , simple , readable and a source of reference for all citizens .
that is why the portuguese socialist meps voted against the proposal of their own political group , which indicated a uniform referendum model for all the member states of the european union .
a constitution would be meaningful only if it formed the democratic framework for a genuine european federation , a united states of europe .
by resorting again to the means and objectives used for the charter of fundamental rights in order now to draft a constitution , the union is persisting in constructing a europe that is made neither by the people nor for them , be they citizens of the member states or the candidate countries .
a genuine social constitution ought to bring together , from the top down , the best acquired rights for work , women , immigrants and citizens .
nor is it built by the people , despite a few hypocritical allusions to possible future referenda , because , once again , a few institutional delegations are to decide the fate of 385 million individuals .
this own-initiative report by mr duhamel can be classed as one that were better not written , especially at this point in time .
for as things stand in the various member states , it risks being rather counterproductive at a time when the top priority is not a very broad debate on a constitution but rather the drafting of a treaty that will allow the european union to digest enlargement without endangering the community method , which is the key to the success of european integration .
the resolution is essentially like a ' pandora ' s box ' , as the text does not make it formally clear what purpose it serves or where the real need or urgency for a european constitution lies .
by its very nature a constitution may , in the form in which it is sometimes contradictorily put forward for europe , both serve as a way to ' civilise ' the union , on the basis of democracy and citizenship , and also be the instrument for a ' clarification ' of competences , a chalk circle which formally and definitively constrains the union and its bodies to very particular and specific competences .
the constitutionalisation of the treaties may either bring about the development of the union and uphold its political competences , or in contrast it may be no more than an enshrined formalisation of the principle of subsidiarity .
despite the clarity of mario soares ' s speech , in which he interpreted this report in its deep european sense , without concessions to easy solutions through highly risky referendums , for which there is no tradition in many member states , it remains simply an unsullied interpretation by a european of conviction who has made his mark on history .
while it could be argued that the existing treaties are in essence the european constitution they are difficult to read and their articles are not always in a logical order .
we think a re-organising of the treaties and their simplification would make it easier for citizens to see clearly the field of eu responsibilities - and their limits - as well as the procedures for exercising these responsibilities .
we have a constitution already in the form of the treaties , in so far as they lay down the competences of the union , its procedures and the composition and powers of its institutions .
that is true in terms of the understanding shown both of the national parliaments and their constitutional committees and of the european parliament ' s committee on constitutional affairs .
but this particular voice , and this is significant , is a parliamentary voice , the voice of an institution that attests a little more each day to the authority of the peoples within the union and its triangle of institutions .
everyone here knows that europe , its currency , its diplomacy , its security , its civilisation , its culture and its social model can only truly survive the splendid history of its peoples , but also the fruitless dissension between them , by becoming a federation of nation states with strong , coherent and respected institutions , enshrined in a european constitution , towards which mr duhamel has paved the way .
until the treaty of amsterdam in 1997 , europe was an intergovernmental super-syndicate .
if , tomorrow , the union wishes to embrace europe in its entirety , the geographical europe , extending even beyond the next wave of enlargement , it will need institutions that are fully mature in political and democratic terms .
gil-robles report ( a5-0288 / 2000 ) mr president , ever since i have been a member of the european parliament , i have had sleepless nights worrying about whether i will succeed in contributing to a european law on pensions before my term expires .
we agree with the general principles laid down by the report , to the effect that closer cooperation should be developed within the european union ' s institutional frameworks and that the political and legal conditions established by the treaty of amsterdam for introducing closer cooperation are aimed at limiting the risk of a breach of the ties of solidarity between the member states and the risk of a disintegration in the common legal area .
we recognise that , where the pace and scope of european integration are concerned , a certain degree of differentiation within the process may be useful in so far as the common objectives are preserved and the differentiation is perceived as a tool used on an exceptional basis , in a transitional period and with due respect for the fact that it is entirely up to those countries which are not a part of the enhanced cooperation process to decide whether - and , in certain cases , when - they wish to accede to those areas covered by closer cooperation .
if we cannot vote in favour of the report , it is because we cannot support the proposed changes to the political and legal conditions required for closer cooperation .
removing the conditions which state that closer cooperation must remain within the framework of the treaty and removing the right of veto and the opportunity for bringing the issue up in the european council would constitute a breach of the quite fundamental principles according to which european cooperation in the eu operates .
the group for a europe of democracies and diversities is voting against gil-robles gil-delgado ' s report on enhanced cooperation .
the report proposes abolishing the right of veto , which would in reality mean that countries which are very keen on further integration could forge ahead without having broad democratic support .
the ulterior motive is to be able to continue the development towards ' ever closer union ' without being hampered by the enlargement to which the eu countries have committed themselves .
in this way , mr gil-robles proposes discontinuing the common foreign and security policy .
we consider , however , that future development will increase the need for far more varied and flexible cooperation in europe .
countries with a tradition of holding referendums before surrendering sovereignty may in future be in danger of finding themselves in a situation in which a proposal that is rejected nationally is adopted at eu level .
those countries which are not so keen on integration are left with a poor alternative , namely that of copying the legislation without having any real say in it .
in fact , although this report tends to introduce a little more flexibility into the highly inflexible system laid down by title vii of the treaty of amsterdam , which is welcome , the final result is still far from adequate .
the gil-robles report even proposes bringing the common foreign and security policy and the common defence policy within the purview of reinforced cooperation , thus centralising those policies even more than they are at present ( paragraph 4 ) .
parliament wished earlier to prevent the emergence of differentiated forms of cooperation in the treaty of amsterdam , but was finally forced to give way and accept ' reinforced cooperation ' .
indeed , some member states that wanted to deepen their cooperation and go beyond the integration provided for in the treaties developed various instruments , such as the social chapter , the schengen agreements , economic and monetary union , etc .
with the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam , the use of these instruments was formalised by the introduction of the concept of ' closer cooperation ' into the treaty on european union ( title vii ) and the treaty establishing the european community ( article 11 ) .
the objective of this form of cooperation is to allow a limited number of member states that are able and willing to move forward to deepen european integration , provided they respect the european union ' s single institutional framework .
so we must avoid slowing down the general pace and therefore allow some member states to move forward by developing the mechanism of reinforced cooperation .
we must point out that reinforced cooperation , as provided for in the treaty of amsterdam , must in particular concern an area that does not come within the community ' s exclusive purview , must be aimed at furthering the objectives of the union , must respect the principles of the treaties and must be used only as a last resort while concerning a majority of member states .
reinforced cooperation could have an important role to play in the framework of an enlarged europe .
however , as these provisions now stand , this mechanism cannot function correctly .
that is why the reform of this instrument has been entered on the agenda of the igc with a view to making it easier to use .
the report before us tends to consolidate parliament ' s position in this respect ( resolution of 13 april 2000 ) .
in particular , that means abolishing the right of veto and making it possible to resort to cooperation when it concerns at least one third of member states and also extending reinforced cooperation to the common foreign and security policy .
the rapporteur rightly stresses that the commission ' s power of initiative , the full participation of the european parliament and legal control by the court of justice must be the rule for all forms of reinforced cooperation .
in its simplest terms , what this means is that larger member states can integrate more closely and over a shorter time-frame than smaller member states of the eu .
i do not think it will be a necessarily healthy move forward for the european union if eu leaders were to accept and implement the principle of enhanced cooperation to its fullest .
i believe that this would fly in the face of both the founding objectives and spirit of the treaty of rome and of all subsequent treaties thereafter .
one should recall that the single european act in 1987 laid the groundwork for the implementation of an internal market .
large scale eu structural funds were put aside to help objective 1 countries within the european union so as to guarantee that these countries could become more competitive over time .
eu leaders stated that they did not want an internal market of only a few countries .
the operating structures of the internal market have been a success ever since the early 1990s .
this principle of equality between poorer and richer nations was transcended into policies that were implemented to put in place a new european single currency regime .
there is a need for institutional equality in the context of the negotiations on the forthcoming intergovernmental conference .
the influence of smaller member states cannot be dissipated by a set of larger countries within the eu that seek to implement , as i have said , the principle of enhanced cooperation .
if , in a future eu with 25 to 30 member states , the situation is to be avoided of a europe a la carte in which the unity of the member states is in danger of disintegrating , we nonetheless believe that at least half of all member states must participate in flexible integration .
we are also opposed to creating duplicate defence structures within the eu and consequently to flexible integration within the eu ' s foreign and security policy .
the eu must acquire a credible foreign policy .
still less do we wish to see a limited number of member states go further within the framework of flexible integration in this area .
it is therefore important to retain the transatlantic link , even if there might , of course , be better coordination and a better distribution of labour .
it must preserve the single institutional framework within which all meps and all commissioners participate fully in the exercise of the functions of each institution .
what could be more natural , therefore , than cooperation between neighbouring states , such as the cooperation which existed before the founding of the european union in the form of the benelux counties and the cooperation between the nordic states ?
not one single eu rule should stand in the way of far-reaching cooperation , subject this to conditions or require that others join in .
they are not leader groups but reflect a diversity which , with 30 member states , will only increase .
clearly the triggering of reinforced cooperation must be made easier in an enlarged union .
the group of the greens / european free alliance is disappointed , however , disappointed that the report did not seize the opportunity to bring about environmentally , socially and culturally sustainable development in these regions and that the amendments adopted during the vote are not such as to improve the text in that respect .
we regret that the positions parliament has adopted in the vote are the european union ' s positions concerning these regions .
the pensioners ' party and the pensioners who support it are very familiar with these islands for they are a key tourist destination .
this was the case in the gutierrez diaz report , the fernandez martin report , which promoted the inclusion of the concept in the treaty , and now in the sudre report , which restates european policy for the outermost regions .
the european parliament is reasserting itself by adopting measures in various fields - from agriculture to fisheries , from the environment to transport and energy via the information society - with the necessary budgetary support .
the europe of brussels , with its mania for levelling out and standardising , has acted unfairly and even stupidly towards our compatriots who live according to european values thousands of kilometres away from paris , madrid or lisbon .
the technocrats , the european judges , wanted to abolish the ' dock dues ' , which provide resources for our municipalities in the french overseas departments and , in particular , protect our traditional workforce .
from this distance , brussels has put our martinique rums , our rice and our tropical fruits at risk .
the european commission has kow-towed to the banana multinationals .
the eu member states deal with their outermost regions in very different ways .
spain and portugal consider their islands in the atlantic as remote regions .
on the one hand , we want to support disadvantaged areas in and outside of europe so that they achieve the same standard of living and level of amenities that is now current in the eu .
a case can be made for the spanish and portuguese islands , but not really for the more remote regions .
in any case , we have , however , subordinated our repugnance for this topic ' s colonial backdrop to the interests of those living in the regions concerned .
the more progress that is made in scientific research , the more new questions are raised .
with all the measures proposed in the white paper , we will still have to flesh out a number of points in order to guarantee food safety and in particular restore consumer confidence .
henceforth we must ban all animal meal .
that is why the green group fully supported his work and voted for the report .
mr john bowis ' report will ensure that the food we eat is always healthy , natural and safe .
let me say how glad i am that our parliament is finally delivering its opinion on such an important subject , while regretting that it has been 10 months since the european commission presented its white paper on 12 january this year .
it was essential for us to give an opinion on an issue that is so important to our fellow citizens .
our vote has thus clarified the composition of the future european agency , while also setting out our specific requirements regarding its funding and its independence .
this first step must not close our eyes to the serious work that still needs to be done on risk management , developing and improving the rapid alert system , but also on ensuring traceability and public information .
now that is absolutely intolerable .
the french must remember that despite the commission 's splendid declarations about its resolve " to assure the highest standards of food safety " in the union , it is actually the commission , and none other , that is giving precedence to the demands of the free movement of products over public health requirements ; it is the commission , and none other , that has , for example , just dragged france before the court of justice for maintaining its ban on british beef .
it is unacceptable that we should abandon any part of our national right of decision and right of protection , in relation to food safety questions .
however , the creation of that agency is imperceptibly guiding us in that very direction .
first of all , we must remember that the power to provide advice plays a capital part .
in the mad cow affair , the reason the french government continued the ban was because it was backed up by the independent opinion of the french food safety agency ( afssa ) , even though the supposedly scientific european committee saw nothing wrong with allowing british meat to be imported into france .
that is not at all the direction taken by the white paper , which wants to make the european agency into a " scientific point of reference for the whole union " ( page 5 ) .
secondly , the european agency must be completely independent .
the director of the agency should certainly not be appointed by the commission , contrary to what the european parliament is proposing ( paragraph 21 of the resolution ) .
moreover , the agency must be able to criticise the commission itself .
the commission 's white paper has the grace to admit that , but on closer perusal we find that the regulatory power it is so keen to protect is that of ...
that does not prevent the commission and parliament from christening the agency a " european authority , " a title totally contrary to the philosophy that supposedly inspires it .
the european parliament even adds , in paragraph 6 of its resolution , the phrase " while subjecting the powers to be transferred to detailed scrutiny , " just when we thought that no powers were to be transferred .
we therefore believe that the white paper and parliament 's report are traps , which is why we are opposed to them .
there is without doubt a need for an agency that takes a european view of the situation , but it must be strictly consultative and totally independent .
a serious problem for society and food safety has been caused by the serious crises and scandals involving food products that have arisen in several countries in the european union because of the use of methods aimed at making the maximum profit from food-producing activities at any cost , ignoring the interests of consumers .
therefore all the measures proposed to change the situation and protect consumers deserve our support , particularly the setting-up of a european food safety agency to analyse the risks scientifically , working in close collaboration with existing national agencies in this field and the main european consumers ' organisations .
the issue has now become particularly acute , not just because of the advances in our methods of scientific investigation but mainly because the consequences of a certain type of farming aimed at boosting productivity at all costs and inspired by a free-trade philosophy have come fully to light .
the question is what kind of mechanism will protect our citizens most effectively .
if we take a look at recent events , we find that with regard to bse , for example , and taking only the case of france , it is the existence of a competent and independent national food safety agency that allowed the french authorities to rapidly take the decisions needed to protect the health of its people .
in the name of respect for subsidiarity and effectiveness , we must give pride of place to measures taken in a national context , where independent agencies can rapidly provide genuinely scientific opinions undiluted by other considerations and the political authorities can take the necessary risk-management decisions for the benefit of the people who have given them a mandate to protect their safety .
under these circumstances , a european agency can play a useful role if it really is independent , especially in relation to the commission services and the various pressure groups at work there , and if its role is to complement and support the national agencies ( from which it should emanate ) , in particular by acting as a forum for the exchange of expertise .
that is not at all what the bowis report is proposing ; it gives the impression that basically it regards food safety as another pretext for fuelling the well-known process of strengthening the commission 's powers at the expense of the national authorities and public safety .
the report seems to regard it as a matter of course that the commission should appoint the director of the authority : no doubt that is the best way of guaranteeing its independence !
as for paragraph 6 of the report , it quite classically announces the transfers of powers that are bound to follow .
we voted against amendment no 7 because it would mean , even now , going beyond the field of risk assessment and encompassing risk management .
i believe there are a number of reasons why hong kong voters have opted for apathy instead of exercising their newly established right to vote .
twenty-four of the 60 seats are directly elected on the basis of universal suffrage , where three million hong kong citizens have the right to vote .
the remaining 36 seats are returned by a mere 179 000 electors drawn from hong kong 's powerful business and professional interests as well as pro-beijing groups .
the real power rests with the chief executive , tung chee-hwa and his government which , in effect , is appointed by beijing .
the legislature 's lack of real power has made voters unenthusiastic about participating in elections which , in their view , are not truly democratic .
although the basic law - which is hong kong 's mini-constitution - lays down specific criteria for the holding of the 2004 election , it does nonetheless provide for the possible introduction of universal suffrage for the election of all 60 seats for the 2008 election .
the executive has no party base in the legislature , which means that these two institutions are effectively completely separate from one another .
the rule of law is the cornerstone of the " one country , two systems " policy .
three recent , controversial legal cases have far-reaching implications for the integrity of the rule of law and ultimately for the autonomy of hong kong itself .
two of these resulted in the execution of individuals for crimes they had committed in hong kong , where capital punishment is banned .
the third case related to a judgment handed down by hong kong 's court of final appeal on a controversial immigration law concerning residency rights in hong kong for children of chinese parents who themselves had resident status in hong kong .
the hong kong government was displeased with the liberal judgment and invited the chinese authorities to reinterpret the basic law .
as regards my comments on the dominance of the li ka-shing family - which was the subject of much media interest in hong kong today - in some sectors of hong kong 's economy , i should like to point out that the reason i have raised this matter is that it has been raised with me by leading figures in hong kong and indeed was the subject of major media debate during a recent visit there by myself .
i am very unhappy that this has been blocked by some governments .
visa-free access should be given to hong kong 's passport-holders without any preconditions .
since then , and despite the asian financial crisis , trade relations between the european union and hong kong have gone from strength to strength .
as far as relations between hong kong and its international trading partners are concerned , more specifically the world trade organisation , the eu and hong kong share a number of common goals and the two work very closely together , which is useful in the light of the forthcoming trade round .
in my recommendation , i referred to the important role which hong kong could play when china joined the world trade organisation .
hong kong could show china how an open , fully integrated market can play a leading role in the region and can in this way achieve economic development and sustained growth .
for these reasons , we must stress the importance of closer cooperation between the european union and hong kong in financial terms and in terms of trade and direct foreign investments .
we should bear in mind that in the framework of the eu-china agreement with regard to the possible accession of china to the world trade organisation , these bilateral agreements will need to be reviewed .
as far as the inquiry is concerned , we must call for both hong kong and the european union to play a valuable role in the many projects which are in the pipeline .
we must , i think , all agree that if , with measures such as those quoted in the cushnahan report , we touch on the principle of the rule of law which should inform the legal and constitutional framework of hong kong , then we question the wider principle of " one country , two systems " on which developments in hong kong have been based .
because it is through freedom of the press that observations and proposals are made which aim to keep things within the democratic framework on which we are all agreed .
i should like to thank him for once again being so adaptable in writing that report and being prepared to involve his colleagues so that there is no need for us to go through a lengthy amendment procedure because we reached consensus when the report was being drawn up .
the recent sacking or movement of one of the directors of radio television hong kong appears to have been as a result of pressure from the mainland .
we have already heard of the unfair nature of the election system .
i would hope that we can continue with these annual reports and these parliament reports so that we can monitor very closely the situation in hong kong .
mr cushnahan rightly points to the question of the three legal cases which have caused concern .
he rightly points to the lack of progress on the introduction of universal suffrage for the elections of the chief executive , to discrimination against companies with trading links with taiwan and to the decline in confidence of the political system .
these are all indeed serious challenges and if we must be grateful that things have gone as well as they have , we must nonetheless be concerned that greater progress has not been made .
i believe that the record of the european union falls far behind that of the united states of america in this area .
i am aware that our member states have concerns about standing up against the chinese on issues of human rights because they fear trade sanctions in retaliation .
but if there is one area where western europe could stand four-square behind the european banner , it is surely in this area .
the asem summit last week managed to agree a statement which included as a goal of asia-europe cooperation the promotion of human rights .
we are the first to express our anxiety with regard to the hong kong government ' s decision to apply for an interpretation of the 1990 basic law from the standing committee of the national people ' s congress .
the veto right which china could obtain as a result of this with regard to court rulings in hong kong puts a question mark over the legal autonomy of the special administrative region .
the elections for the legislative council a month ago were once again proof of the democratic deficit .
the fact that an electoral college of 800 members subsequently decided on the occupation of six seats and the fact that only 175 000 businesspeople were entitled to elect the other half of parliament turned the elections into a complete farce .
finally , we would call for permanent vigilance with regard to the freedom of press , the need for laws with regard to fair competition and the possibility of an open trade relationship with hong kong and taiwan .
the honourable gentleman , mr watson , referred to the fact that we should not feel inhibited in what we say about hong kong or about other issues by our trading relationship with china .
i can report first hand to the house that while , as several honourable gentlemen have pointed out , some problems exist , hong kong nevertheless remains a free society , undoubtedly one of the freest societies in asia as both the commission and parliament 's annual reports make clear .
the secret of hong kong 's great success has always been its fusion of hong kong-chinese entrepreneurial culture with the attributes of a free and open society founded on the rule of law .
it does not surprise me entirely , they are many of them former refugees or the sons and daughters of refugees and they are used to handling and overcoming adversity .
both reports address these directly .
there have been other issues too , including the recent controversy involving academic freedom and the even more recent one involving the public order ordinance , where the provisional legislature replaced the more liberal arrangement that my administration bequeathed with something rather less liberal .
it was an issue that came up several times in my visit last week .
i hope too that we will be able to reinforce a flourishing economic relationship with hong kong , with strengthened cooperation in other areas , such as education and the environment .
we will aim to promote the use of the european communities ' existing instruments in hong kong , such as participation in the fifth framework programme on research , as the honourable gentleman 's report recommends .
there are a number of further recommendations in the report which my officials will be studying closely .
my administration took much more vigorous measures to deal with it .
the present administration is taking particularly vigorous measures to deal with it , under the new director of the customs service whom i happen to know rather well because he was my private secretary for a number of years .
everybody has been impressed by the leadership that he has shown in tackling what is undoubtedly a serious problem for industry .
in closing , we strongly endorse the view in the parliament that this monitoring - your monitoring and our monitoring - is valuable and that it should continue .
we do not seek to interfere in hong kong 's affairs , but the international community and the european union in particular have a considerable stake in hong kong and its continuing rights and freedoms are embodied in a treaty lodged at the united nations .
we will continue to maintain our interest in hong kong .
it is a community which inspired admiration the world over for its achievements and which , much to the satisfaction of its last governor , continues to do so .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m .
in my report , i made a modest attempt to formulate a number of proposals in order to help end the spiral of violence and underdevelopment in which many of our acp partners have ended up .
these proposals also aim to avoid european funds being used to finance the war machine .
i would even argue in favour of fixing a ceiling for military expenditure in the acp countries above which assistance or debt relief is no longer provided .
i believe it would be particularly useful , in the framework of article 96 of the cotonou convention , to compile a list of all possible infringements of this convention .
situations such as those in ethiopia , where the european commission and a number of member states froze aid , while other member states started up new programmes , must be avoided at all costs .
acp states involved in armed conflict should allow the world bank and the imf full access to their accounts .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation , i would like to add a few considerations to the valid points already made by rapporteur van hecke .
although in september 1998 , it was agreed not to provide any budgetary aid to countries at war , in march 2000 the commission provided rwanda with eur 110 million , while this country is occupying considerable parts of the democratic republic of congo , in defiance of the peace agreements .
i have the impression that that is clearly the case because , in practice , countries which are even involved in one and the same armed conflict are being treated differently .
this sometimes directly affects the power relations between countries involved in one and the same conflict .
not only is the illegal arms trade flourishing , but the controlled arms trade is also more interested in " fair competition " among arms traders than in the peace we are promoting .
mr president , commissioner , the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has set itself the objective of eradicating poverty in these regions of africa , the caribbean and the pacific , which must be rescued from their wretchedly poor situation .
in his very comprehensive report , our rapporteur johan van hecke rightly condemns the prevailing anarchy , the result of armed conflicts that cause endless bloodshed in some of these regions , as one of the causes of this poverty .
he has rightly included the establishment of a peace force in his list of remedies to this situation , without this interfering in the internal affairs of all these countries , which are jealous of their independence .
given my experience in this field , allow me to go into this point a little further .
if we want to make a really useful contribution to keeping or restoring peace , we need a deeper knowledge of the history , culture and even language of the country in which we are to intervene .
in that respect , our rapporteur also deserves credit for proposing a very exhaustive list of the approaches and measures that can and must be adopted .
mr president , the new cooperation agreement signed in cotonou represents an ideal opportunity to correct the deficiencies noted in previous measures and to clarify concepts and standards for action in specific situations in which we cooperate with the acp countries , for example , in the situation that gave rise to the commission communication which concerns us here and to the reports by mr van hecke and mrs maes , that is , what should happen when an associate country is involved in armed conflict .
along the lines of what was said by the rapporteurs , we think the european union will have to revise its programmes of aid to countries at war , amongst other reasons to prevent the funds allocated from being diverted to military activities .
also as a matter of principle , it should reconsider support to countries or regimes responsible for armed invasions of neighbouring countries or that spend a disproportionate amount of their resources on arms , if not on operations to repress the rights of the individual or minorities within their own population .
we must bear in mind article 11 of the new treaty which states the european commitment to policies of building peace and preventing and resolving armed conflict .
the dialogue between the opposing parties and the dialogue of the european union with these same parties must be the key mechanism of these actions .
i think parliament would benefit from greater transparency , coherence , information and control over these policies .
finally , we must understand that the reduction or freezing of our development aid for a specific country at war would often need to be accompanied by additional efforts in humanitarian aid to the people of the country , who are the main victims of such conflicts .
here again , the intervention of trustworthy ngos is essential , enabling such programmes to be carried out with guarantees of success and effectiveness .
one in five africans live in a country which is embroiled in serious conflict and , to make matters worse , the conflicts are increasing , both in number and in intensity .
the report by mr van hecke is very close to my heart .
we need to be much stricter vis-a-vis irresponsible acp regimes ; criteria for suspending aid must be clear , and sanctions need to be tailored to each country individually .
we must target the rulers and not the population , however difficult this is , and our parliament must be directly involved in the decision to suspend aid .
the cotonou convention is right in laying the foundation for further development , participation in world trade and political dialogue , but acp countries which slip into violence destroy this cooperation and tear the treaty to shreds .
mr president , i warmly welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur on it .
i strongly believe that we have a responsibility to use the tools available to us to promote good governance , democracy and the rule of law in our international relations .
that is because history demonstrates that responsibility for the debt lies with the lenders as well as the borrowers .
many countries are repaying their debts several times over .
some countries still spend more on debt repayment than on health and education combined , and yet the people suffering from this diversion of resources are certainly not those who had any benefit from the original loans that were given .
there is a valid argument that says , what is the point of cancelling debt if undemocratic governments simply misuse the funds for their own ends ?
that remains a possibility .
but in the context of debt relief it also requires justice and a recognition that in many cases , the original debt has already been repaid many times over .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur for the pertinence of his comments and for his many proposals .
out of the 34 poorest countries in the world , 20 are involved in a conflict .
this situation is giving rise to instability in entire regions .
in connection with one of the poorest and most unfortunate areas in the world , i should like to give two examples of the pernicious role played by unconditional international aid .
i am referring to one country which has been constantly at war since the 1960s and to another now enjoying a shaky peace , which , perversely , may be threatened by international aid : they are angola and mozambique , respectively .
in the case of mozambique , where there is a shaky peace that was only achieved with great difficulty , the ruling party ' s use of international aid to favour certain provinces to the detriment of others according to their election results may in itself be a major factor in destroying the peace that was achieved through such efforts a number of years ago , thus reopening the civil conflict in mozambique .
this is an issue that should be of fundamental concern to the european union and the donor countries : whether in certain countries like mozambique international aid is being used as an instrument of power to legitimise a government at the edges of democracy , and is thus helping to destroy a very shaky peace .
these are issues raised by the report that warrant considerable reflection on our part .
mr president , i also welcome both the commission communication and the report we have here today .
one key message in all this is the need for consistency .
consistency must be our primary objective .
secondly , conflict prevention must be a priority of the european union .
far too often , we are prepared to support one against another group to the long-term detriment of peace in a particular region .
i would like to see , as i outlined in my report last month , action taken against arms brokers throughout the european union .
in many countries , there are no controls over the activities of arms brokers .
it is no good having rules on manufacturing within the eu if eu companies are able to license production outside as a way of getting round the controls .
that requires much tougher action than we have been prepared to indulge in up to now .
mr president , the report highlights what is self-evident , that is , that armed conflicts in africa have seen a dramatic increase in number and intensity , and that they result in immense human suffering .
however , this compassionate language is also a way of covering up the direct or indirect but nonetheless overwhelming responsibility of the major european powers themselves in the majority of these conflicts , from rwanda to sierra leone .
today , in the ivory coast , even though , faced with the reaction of the population of abidjan against the recently attempted coup d ' etat , both lionel jospin and jacques chirac have taken a stand against the putsch , how is it possible not to condemn the policy of french imperialism ?
the links between general guei and the french administration are notorious , as are his links with a certain number of major french industrial conglomerates which control entire economic sectors in the ivory coast .
mr president , the rapporteur should be congratulated on the excellent work that was done so intelligently .
the profile that crises have assumed in the last few decades has decidedly changed .
we must also use all the means available to us to demand that governments should always commit to ensuring the safe passage of those taking humanitarian aid to various regions .
the general affairs council concluded in may that the relevant bodies of the council should continue their reflection upon the issue of development aid to countries involved in armed conflicts , on the basis of the commission communication .
i regret that the member states have not taken up the commission 's communication more actively .
events in the democratic republic of congo and its neighbours in angola and burundi , the horn of africa and now , again , in west africa , particularly in sierra leone , have shown that we cannot escape facing these difficult questions .
the commission is considering its response and in particular the use of article 96 of the cotonou agreement wherever this is appropriate .
a comprehensive framework would help us to respond on a case-by-case basis to each conflict .
if the council is willing to follow up the communication , for instance by formulating council conclusions , the commission will assist in ensuring they reflect the many advances since mid-1999 in the eu 's policy on crisis management and in the cfsp , as well as developments in the international community 's response to conflicts .
but it is clear that there are no easy solutions to these problems , as the contributions in the debate here this afternoon clearly demonstrate .
the bottom line will , in any case , be defined by the real political will of member states to stick to a common line .
the commission cannot promise parliament miracles in this field .
we are prepared to broaden deliberations to other countries involved in armed conflicts .
violent conflict is not a phenomenon limited to acp countries .
the european union must be prepared to react to violence in an efficient and coherent manner in other regions of the globe too .
the communication is an invitation to engage in a debate about eu relations with countries for which the traditional form of development cooperation has become questionable or obsolete .
we would prefer to devote all our efforts to assisting the acp countries in the difficult task of overcoming poverty and of integrating into a rapidly changing global economy .
however , for a considerable number of our acp partners , the major challenge is the restoration of peace , or the containment of regional destabilisation .
peace is an indispensable precondition to development , and countries that remain entangled in violent conflict exclude themselves from the potential benefits of the new cooperation relationship the eu is offering them .
they contaminate the prospect of foreign investment , not only in these countries , but also in their regions .
in less unstable countries , our efforts to fight poverty and provide debt relief are contributing to conflict prevention in the longer term .
the commission has not been idle since submitting the communication .
it has already taken numerous initiatives aimed at strengthening its capacities for effectively addressing the problem of violent conflicts in acp countries .
we are committed to stepping up our efforts for effectively preventing violence and for resolving crises peacefully .
we are committed to making even more effective and targeted use of these instruments .
in this context we are aiming in particular to introduce conflict prevention objectives into the programming of economic and development assistance programmes .
the problem is , however , that the rigid character of these instruments is in itself a limitation to what we can do and how we can use them .
all this looks very different from the toolbox concept , which is what i think of when we talk about the numerous instruments that are available .
the toolbox concept provides a good image of the ideal situation and a satisfactory way of making use of the diversity of instruments .
there is no doubt whatsoever that the hipc initiative , funded by the eu but not yet funded by the us , is making the biggest contribution to conflict prevention in the world right now .
i should say a few words on the situation in the ivory coast , in view of what has been said in this debate .
unfortunately there has been a rapid deterioration in the situation since the elections on sunday .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m .
speaking for myself , i voted consistently against it when i was a member of another parliament .
one of the first decisions that i took when i was governor of hong kong , with the support of organisations like amnesty and human rights watch , was to take the death penalty off the statute book of hong kong and i am delighted that it remains off the statute book .
i am pleased that all central and eastern european countries which are candidates for membership of the union have abolished the death penalty .
the european union is opposed to the death penalty in all circumstances and has agreed to campaign for its universal abolition .
in my case , my opposition to the death penalty is also rooted in my belief in the sanctity of human life .
the european union has been for some time now actively seeking a global moratorium .
the union has defined a set of guidelines for identifying circumstances in which the european union can take specific , targeted action .
these guidelines specify that the european union will encourage states to accede to the second optional protocol of the convention on civil and political rights and comparable regional mechanisms aimed at the abolition of the death penalty .
the european union shares the deep concern of all those opposed to the death penalty , that it is impossible to reduce to zero the risk of applying the penalty in error .
in countries which maintain the death penalty , the european union aims at the progressive restriction of its scope and respect for the strict conditions set out in several international human rights instruments under which capital punishment may be used , as well as at the establishment of a moratorium on executions , so as to eliminate completely the death penalty .
during the presidencies of finland and portugal , the european union raised the issue of the death penalty with a host of countries including the authorities in antigua and barbuda , burundi , the bahamas , china , guyana , india , iran , kyrgyzstan , the palestinian authority , pakistan , the philippines , tajikistan , thailand , trinidad and tobago , turkey , the united arab emirates , the united states , uzbekistan , the yemen and zimbabwe .
the european union is especially concerned about the imposition of the death penalty on young people below 18 years of age at the time of the commission of the crime .
i said at the outset that the european union had decided to raise the issue of the death penalty in multilateral fora .
this has not always been simple .
in particular under budget line b7-704 we are pursuing a number of initiatives throughout the world designed to mobilise public opinion against the death penalty .
in 1999 a joint programme was established between the commission and the council of europe to raise public awareness about various themes related to the abolition of the death penalty in russia , turkey , albania and ukraine .
the programme , worth over eur 670 000 over two years , will provide information to parliamentarians , to legal experts and to the general public on the penal policy arguments against capital punishment .
mr president , commissioner , as you have said so well on many occasions , parliament , and with it the group of the european people 's party , has declared itself against the death penalty and in favour of a universal moratorium on capital punishment , the sole objective of which is to achieve the definitive abolition of the death penalty throughout the world .
it could not be otherwise , given that this practice , which is directly connected with respect for human life , runs contrary to the defence of human rights , the first of which , the basis and foundation for all the others , is the right to life , which is promoted by the european union .
there comes a time , however , when words are not enough and a far more aggressive attitude must be adopted in defence of what , for the christian democrats , constitutes the very core of our philosophy and our political action : the transcendental value of the person and the right to life from the moment of conception until their natural death ; two principles which are incompatible with the application of the death penalty .
therefore , we are not only advocating its abolition , but also proposing the possibility of using budget lines intended for human rights to campaign in favour of a moratorium on the death penalty , and that non-governmental organisations , both international and local , and religious authorities may also participate in the implementation of these budget lines .
nonetheless , it is still applied in 90 states and we cannot turn a blind eye to the 1,625 known executions carried out in 1998 , 80 % of which took place in just four countries , including , in third place , the united states of america with 68 executions .
therefore , together with respect for human rights , the abolition of the death penalty must be a key element , commissioner , in relations between the european union and third countries .
if the death penalty - as the community of san egidio told us - dehumanises our world by giving primacy to reprisals and revenge , then placing all measures , both economic and political , within our reach in order to banish a practice that is contrary to the principles and values that constitute our raison d 'etre should be a priority objective for the european union .
mr president , once again parliament has declared itself to be in favour of human dignity and against the death penalty .
but on this occasion it has done so following the approval by the convention of the definitive text of the charter on fundamental rights of the european union .
this charter actually devotes its first chapter to human dignity , stating that it is inviolable and will be respected and protected .
parliament has spoken in favour of the charter being incorporated into the treaties and these rights of european citizens being applied to citizens of third countries .
however , it is more relevant than ever for us to ask ourselves whether it is time to demand that the commission and the council incorporate the abolition of the death penalty as a clause respecting human rights into negotiations with all third countries , not only those waiting in line to become part of the european union . 1999 was another bad year .
according to amnesty international , almost 2000 people were executed and in 63 countries 4000 others were condemned to death .
i draw attention to the united states , not because i am anti-american , which i am not , but because we are talking about a democracy with which we are on good terms , which watches over the interests of peace and democracy in the world .
i would like us all to ask ourselves whether we can do more .
i believe that if we do not turn this fight into a political commitment , with a capital p , as a fundamental part of european foreign policy - and that is why i am pleased that commissioner patten is here - we will be doing less than we could to prevent this barbarism .
every execution is an error that democracy , the defence of human rights and human dignity cannot accept .
mr president , i welcomed commissioner patten 's speech , in particular his words about his own personal experience , and the absurdity of a punishment which is becoming increasingly less effective in the world as a deterrent in the minds of a growing number of citizens .
when our international institutions , when the aja tribunal is faced with the sentence inflicted on the criminal tadic - who is guilty of heinous crimes - and we compare these appalling crimes with any of the incidents in any countries , including democratic countries , as a result of which thousands of people are now waiting on death row , we may be able to appreciate the fact that what had been a purely european characteristic , that is the rejection of capital punishment , may - in political time , not historical time - spread until it becomes the clearly predominant political , institutional and humanitarian modus operandi throughout the world .
this , mr president , is why it is necessary for the commission - and i would ask commissioner patten to give an incisive response - to make good use of these amendments to the european union 's budget that were tabled by our group of the european liberal democrat and reform party in respect of the 2000 budget .
i therefore propose , commissioner , that you consider the possibility of europe establishing a european day of protest against the death penalty : this would make a substantial contribution to generating a universal consciousness from that cradle of civilisation which europe is and wishes to remain .
of course , a moratorium would not have been able to prevent the 4 000 arbitrary executions which have taken place in recent years in iraq or the thousands of executions which have taken place in china , but in other countries , especially the united states , the only great democracy still to exercise the death penalty with stubborn pride , this long labouring to mobilise public opinion to call for a moratorium is having some , very slight , effect .
mr bush , in whose state 144 executions have been carried out , succeeded in removing the issue of the death penalty from the electoral campaign and discreetly and hypocritically postponed the executions in his state until after the elections .
the death penalty irrevocablyviolates the right to life and is inevitably cruel , inhumane and humiliating .
in the year 2000 alone , 70 people have been executed in the usa .
there is a long list of countries in which the death penalty is carried out or in which death sentences are imposed , such as china , iran and iraq .
although no death penalties have been carried out in turkey since 1984 , over 69 people have been sentenced to death .
the turkish parliament has the final word on carrying out this sentence and has 49 cases to deal with .
whether it is abu-jamal in the usa , ocalan in turkey or even the execution of abdul achmin sabiin iraq - we should condemn all of this .
i regard the death sentence as a barbaric ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , in the same way as the treaty of amsterdam and the european charter of fundamental rights , parliament has repeatedly declared itself to be opposed to the death penalty which sadly , as has been pointed out , still exists in many countries of the world : countries with antidemocratic traditions such as communist china and extremely liberal countries such as the united states .
however , we know that this is not at all the case ; we know that the death penalty is an abhorrent practice , a form of state-legalised crime .
this is precisely why we must promote a europe-wide campaign for a moratorium on the death penalty , a large-scale human rights campaign which involves everybody , from those with political or institutional roles to the citizens themselves , especially the younger citizens , precisely in order to create genuine civil awareness of the matter and to put political pressure on the countries in which the death penalty is still part of the law .
i refer , in particular , to china , which , as the commissioner too mentioned , issues a death sentence every day of the week and in general shows very little respect for human rights but which , regrettably , is also a highly attractive trading partner for all the european countries and one they cannot do without .
i would like to end by saying that these campaigns against the death penalty would be much more efficient and much more widespread if we were to succeed , as an institution , in conveying to our citizens the idea that we are simultaneously working , with equal determination and efficiency to build a safe europe where it will be possible to eradicate terrible criminal scourges , such as drug trafficking , the exploitation of human beings and child abuse , in the very near future .
having said that , commissioner , i feel that , precisely on this type of subject , working in conjunction with organisations which operate in society or with non-governmental organisations is a key factor , for these organisations usually have greater room for manoeuvre , and are able to be bolder and uphold positions which are , so to speak , less influenced by other considerations or interests , in themselves legitimate but all too often liable to lead governments and institutions to compromise and assume less forthright positions .
this is precisely why part of the resolution calls upon the commission to be more explicit in its report and in providing transparent information on the use of the year 2000 budget lines relating to this matter and to democratisation in general .
it has , in fact , happened in the past and still happens that the very organisations which have put most work into this matter have , so to speak , been excluded from working with the commission on a project , even though they have been doing so for many years because , it appears , there is no more funding and we do not know exactly where it has gone .
that is why , commissioner , i feel that transparency and the provision of information would benefit a joint project which , i feel sure , is of interest to us all .
at the moment - as it has been said - the images of the american electoral campaign and the final debate between the two main candidates are fresh in our minds ; a debate in which the candidate for the democrats stated publicly that the only thing he had in common with his opponent was being in favour of the death penalty .
i think it is important for the european union to head the campaign to abolish the death penalty , given that it is a campaign in favour of human dignity and the most basic of fundamental rights .
commissioner , i believe - and you expressed this very well - that when developing the european union ' s external affairs policy we must consider , with regard to the third countries , that there is already a declaration annexed to the treaty of amsterdam which clearly reflects that to be eligible for membership of the european union , candidate states must have abolished the death penalty .
but , i insist , in relations with third countries we must be extremely clear and firmly promote relations with those countries that share our views on this matter .
mr president , i believe that the institutions must live up to the values of our civilisation and that our citizens must see themselves reflected in the ethical mirror that , as a result of our work , we should be for them .
mr president , commissioner , if every petition which we discussed and approved in this house were worth a life then i would be satisfied .
we must avoid turning our reasoning and indignant declarations into a wake because , while we are expressing our indignation , executions are still being carried out .
the second point - which you raised , commissioner , and which , i am happy to say , was taken up by many of the members - is that the commission must exercise great care in allocating its financial resources in order to support campaigns which are able to alter the public perception of the death penalty .
you mentioned the year 2000 budget lines aimed at financing campaigns for the abolition of the death penalty .
so i urge the commission to focus and extend the use of the assistance funds to the two main nations where state murder is practised with no restraint and with great relish : the people 's republic of china and the united states of america .
yes , we know the issue has been raised ritually and periodically with the governments of both countries , but we have to do much more .
for instance , as regards the united states , some of this money should be invested in sensibilisation campaigns in europe , certainly not in order to boycott a sovereign state like texas , but to re-route european tourism and european industrial investment to those 12 states that do not indulge in such a barbaric practice .
mr president , i am personally opposed to the death penalty for a variety of reasons , and despite this , i would like to make two fundamental observations which are at odds with everything that has been said so far in this chamber .
in the first case , we are talking about the highest penalty for extremely dangerous criminals who , moreover , have been able to avail themselves of very many defence mechanisms in the democratic court procedures .
if i were convinced that in europe , there is the will to look after the fate of victims and the safety of victims , i , along with you , would condemn the death penalty here today without any reservation .
mr president , commissioner , this debate , which is a repeat of other , previous debates would , on the surface , appear superfluous and outdated .
despite certain very tragic events which have taken place in europe , despite the fact that there have been fascist and communist cultures that have trampled underfoot rights to freedoms and the rights of individuals , i feel it noteworthy that agreement has been reached time and time again in this parliament in discussing the death penalty and firmly condemning it in any form whatsoever .
we italians are of the tradition of cesare beccaria , as has already been said , but beccaria was a man who belonged to europe , who rejected mediaeval , obscurantist law in its entirety in favour of modern law , in favour of a legal system which does not make us wolves to our fellow men but , by means of peaceful civil coexistence , guarantees freedoms .
capital punishment is always incompatible with peace in civil coexistence and we must find the courage to declare that accepting a moratorium - although that would be great step forward - is not enough to make a country genuinely democratic : to achieve true democracy it must abolish the death penalty .
mr president , in 1999 , eighty-five percent of all executions took place in only five countries : china , iran , saudi arabia , the democratic republic of congo and the united states .
it violates the right to life , is irrevocable and can involve innocent people .
we therefore give our warm support to commissioner patten ' s policy .
mr president , it is high time we adopted a universal moratorium on the death penalty , this ' veritable administrative murder ' , as albert camus called it .
a total of 77 states still see the death penalty as the appropriate response to certain crimes .
in 1999 , 1813 people were executed in 31 countries and there are at least 3 857 people condemned to death in 63 countries .
in the united states , opinion is still very much in favour of capital punishment , but its hold has been shaken .
and i am in favour of this proposal being advanced at a european level .
on 10 december , hundreds of thousands of petitions will be handed in to the united nations .
i have spoken on radio and television programmes .
i have been booed for what i have said at public meetings on capital punishment .
i just ask parliament to reflect on the fact that this debate included speeches all of which were on the same side - a side with which i passionately agree .
that suggests to me that we need not only to think about public information campaigns in other countries , but occasionally to think about the need for continuing public information campaigns in the european union as well because i am not sure that everybody outside these extraordinary halls , outside this parliament , thinks exactly as we do .
and we must remember that it is one of the tasks of political leadership to carry public opinion with you and not just to assume that everybody agrees with us .
we want to have a good clean text denouncing capital punishment and asserting the universal validity of human rights including the sanctity of life .
we want to continue to build on what has been achieved in the commission on human rights in order to build up the majority that we would like to see in the united nations itself .
it is an issue that we raise again and again in our human rights dialogue .
i cannot say hand on heart , or even hand off heart , that it is getting us very far , but we continue to raise the issue .
we called upon the united states to establish a moratorium on the use of the death penalty , with a view to completely eliminating capital punishment .
they may agree about capital punishment .
the number of executions , the number of people in prison , the number of executions in the united states is extraordinarily high for a country whose democracy was celebrated in such appropriately eloquent terms by alexis de tocqueville a century ago .
i am not sure what he would have thought about the amount of capital punishment in the united states .
i hope we use our intellectual as well as financial resources to put the case again and again for the sanctity of human life , against the intolerable practice of capital punishment .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken on thursday .
but i told president trajkovski that much as i would have liked to have attended , i needed to be here in this parliament today , demonstrating democratic accountability in action .
i have had several debates and it has been a pleasure to take part in them .
like many honourable members , i had long hoped for the chance to report on such a visit and on our efforts to build ties with a democratic belgrade .
many of us have been surprised and inspired by the triumphant return of democracy to serbia in recent weeks .
in the summer i reported to this house about a serbia that was an outcast among european nations , about the repression of the brave , independent media , about our support for the opposition .
today , although it is early days , the opposition are in government and the independent media suddenly find that they are no longer embattled and alone but in the vanguard of a new effort to create a truly open and pluralistic media for the whole country .
from the moment the people of serbia made their democratic will clear and from the moment they insisted it should be respected , the european union has been as good as its word .
barely four days after the democratic transition on 5 october , european union foreign ministers announced the lifting of sanctions and the immediate repeal of the oil embargo and the flight ban .
they expressed a wish for member states to re-establish or normalise diplomatic relations with yugoslavia at the earliest opportunity .
they underlined the willingness of the european union to contribute to the institutional and economic rebuilding of the fry and they extended an invitation to president kostunica to attend the informal european council in biarritz and to participate in the regional summit that the presidency is organising and which is to be hosted by the croatian government in zagreb on 24 november .
the day after the foreign ministers ' meeting , foreign minister vedrine representing the presidency , flew to belgrade to inform president kostunica in person of the measures decided by the european union to honour the promises it had made to the people of serbia during the election campaign .
the same day , just five days after 5 october , a team of commission officials arrived in belgrade to discuss with president kostunica 's advisers an urgent , short-term assistance package .
later that week , the european commission proposed to the european council at biarritz that the budgetary authority , including this parliament , should approve an emergency package of assistance to serbia worth eur 200 million , 180 million of it mobilised from the emergency reserve .
in belgrade i met president kostunica and held a separate meeting with him and some 80 mayors from democratic municipalities .
i visited the headquarters of the students ' resistance movement , and met the brave independent journalist , marislav filipovic , jailed by milosevic for telling the truth and recently freed under president kostunica .
i met with professor labus and his colleagues of the g17 group of economists and with colleagues from the world bank to discuss both short-term help and the longer but vital task of long-term reconstruction , especially institution building and building the rule of law .
i also visited the studio of the independent television and radio station , b92 , which was harassed by milosevic and supported amongst others by the european commission and whose journalists , like other independent journalists , will deserve prominent and flattering mention when the history of the last few weeks in serbia comes to be written .
i also had important meetings with representatives of the democratic opposition of serbia and with ngos and representatives of civil society , including the impressive head of the civic democratic alliance , goran svilanovic .
i briefed european union heads of mission before my departure to montenegro where i had meetings yesterday evening with president djukanovic and prime minister vujanovic .
let me just say a word about my meeting with president kostunica and the emergency assistance package that we are finalising for serbia .
i was impressed by his commitment to democracy and made very much aware of the huge challenge he faces in consolidating democracy in serbia , especially in the run-up to the serbian elections .
i applauded the approach he had taken at biarritz and during his recent visit to sarajevo , in particular his willingness to establish diplomatic relations with bosnia and herzegovina without delay .
it seems to me that president kostunica has made an impressive start in formidably difficult circumstances that few of us predicted a few months ago .
we are going to launch a new programme called towns for democracy to provide basic municipal improvements and services and we are going to reinforce our support for the media and civil society in this critical phase .
we are going to do everything we can to alleviate the problems but it will still be tough because milosevic has left serbia 's new leaders with a spectacular shambles .
we will have to work with others and , despite our efforts , serbia faces a difficult period .
but we are working flat out to get our help on the ground as rapidly as possible , which means from the second half of november .
the people of serbia know that , from now on , they do not have to face the future alone but with the staunch support of the european union and the entire family of european democracies at their side .
let me make a further very important point : none of the assistance that i have described is at the expense of our efforts elsewhere in the region .
i and , i believe , ministers in the general affairs council are acutely aware of the european union 's obligations to croatia , to bosnia-herzegovina , to albania , to fyrom and to the people of kosovo and to montenegro .
we are not going to relax our efforts elsewhere in the region .
that was one reason why i visited podgorica yesterday , my third visit since march and the first time i was able to fly in with a visa from belgrade .
i discussed our considerable assistance programme with president djukanovic .
i listened to the views of the prime minister and the president on recent developments and on relations between montenegro and serbia .
there is still much to do .
democracy , although i believe it to be irreversible , is still young and fragile in serbia .
the european union is ready for that task and stands ready to do all in its power to deliver on the hopes of so many whose lives have been blighted by the horrors the milosevic regime inflicted inside and outside the borders of serbia .
mr president , let me start by thanking the commissioner for his swift visit to belgrade and for reporting back to us so promptly .
my second question relates to kosovo .
we know what can be done and we are in a position to make the funding available tomorrow , which i am very pleased about .
i am also sure that under your auspices , commissioner , emergency aid really will be provided swiftly .
i have two questions .
mr president , commissioner , the dramatic apology of the yugoslavian president , mr kostunica , also referred to by my fellow member , his admission of guilt and the guilt of the serbian people - something which many nations have never done - is a gesture which does him credit and which will make an important contribution to improving the climate in the region .
it does not mean that we abandon or surrender our principles or our values .
i would love to be able to clear the danube in a couple of weeks time but it is not possible .
one or two people have suggested that perhaps things could be done a little more quickly and perhaps we should take that as encouragement to speed up and deliver as rapidly as possible .
while that is going on we will be , i hope , assisting yugoslavia in dealing with the problems about its membership of the un , its membership of the world bank and its problems with the ifis to which it owes considerable arrears .
i hope we will be able to deal with those problems and have completed the needs assessment by the middle of next year .
that is going to be a considerable task but since there are so many capable and able serbs helping in the economies of australia , canada , germany and other places around the world , all of us can look forward to the day when serbs are able to do a great deal more to make their own economy in serbia prosperous and successful .
on sanctions , we have lifted - as the house will know - the sanctions on oil and air flights .
speaking for myself , although it will be a decision that the general affairs council will have to make very speedily , i am always reluctant to be more catholic than the pope or - to use a more appropriate expression - more orthodox than the patriarch : if we are told by the authorities in belgrade that they want to get rid of the financial sanctions it would be slightly surprising if we were to say " steady on , we think we can design some smart sanctions which will meet needs which you say you are quite content for us to forget about . "
i went to see the ngos working in humanitarian and free media fields , financed by the european union , and the picture was not a particularly happy one .
i want to ask the commissioner if he will confirm that he will thank the staff of the commission both in brussels , and in particular in the belgrade office under michael graham , the head of the delegation , who throughout this time have gone through enormous change and have actually wrought a major difference in the process of moving towards democracy .
i would like the commissioner to confirm that he will thank not only those people but also the ngos working in the field .
more particularly i hope he will accept the thanks of this house , because he has demonstrated that democratic activism not only works in hong kong but also in serbia .
i would also like to thank the commissioner for his efforts and i hope i can without being pretentious assure him that the relatively low attendance in this house does not , i am sure , reflect the level of interest in this subject .
i understand this , given that there is a new leader , president kostunica , and that it is necessary to be involved in the process with him so that things can go ahead properly .
there needs to be a risk control plan not only for this region , but also for the town of pristina and for other towns in kosovo .
i would therefore like to draw your attention to this and to tell you that there is a social problem .
the organisations in the media field have done magnificently .
we were superbly well-served by the swedish-helsinki committee , for example , but there has been excellent cooperation and despite all the difficulties put in our way by milosevic 's regime , we were able to get a considerable amount of help through to the democrats and the democratic forces in serbia .
that i hope played a small part in bringing about change .
the honourable lady was entirely right to say that it is sometimes suspected that encouraging regional cooperation is a sort of brussels stalling on the route towards europe .
the european union is the best example in the world of countries dealing with ancient animosities , countries becoming both more politically stable and more prosperous by knocking down frontiers , by knocking down boundaries and in certain areas pooling their sovereignty and doing things together that they do better together .
for example , we are saying to them , we will give you very generous trade access to our markets but you have to give generous trade access to your neighbours ' markets as well .
president kostunica said at the meeting with mayors , that in the new democratic era yugoslavia was going to have to do quite a bit about gender mainstreaming because they were only i think three women in the room at that meeting .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
even though the substance of the proposals deserves a few comments and a few criticisms , as you will see , the truth is that this initiative has sent out two incontrovertible political signals .
this green paper has opened the debate on the architecture of a future emissions trading system within the european union .
first , this system will allow industries , companies and member states to gain practical experience and prepare themselves economically for the 2008 launch of the emissions trading system at an international level .
let me highlight six points from my considerations .
one : the green paper should have set quantified targets for greenhouse gas reduction to be attained by the emissions trading system ; in other words , the green paper should have said what percentage of greenhouse gas reduction would be allocated to emissions trading .
four : in the debate on the scope of the system , the commission should not have set direct emissions trading between companies as the only possible option .
five : i believe it is crucial to involve the countries applying for membership of the european union in the emissions trading system as soon as possible .
to this end i invite the commission to present a plan in a forthcoming communication specifying how those countries can be brought into the emissions trading system .
it is a disappointment because it results in the role of policies and measures , in other words , the role of domestic and community political action , being sidelined in favour of market mechanisms .
it is also a disappointment because this communication results in an unbalanced treatment of the various economic sectors ; in particular it was hoped that those sectors that were not included in the emissions trading system might see the approval of an ambitious approach with well-defined commitments in the other communication , the one on policies and measures .
note that , regardless of the result of the american elections , it will be bill clinton and al gore who will be negotiating the kyoto protocol in the hague .
if al gore wins , there is nothing to prevent it continuing to be very difficult to find the two-thirds majority in the senate needed to ratify the protocol .
i therefore think that the european union should not give up its negotiating agenda .
the green paper constitutes the first step towards establishing an instrument which is in conformity with the market , which prescribes a ceiling for emission levels and which , in time , will offer very efficient and effective opportunities to reduce these emission levels .
i hope that this misunderstanding can be put right with a number of amendments .
in the final analysis , we should fulfil our collective responsibility to manage god ' s creation in a responsible manner and without any hesitation .
the subject of emissions trading entered the debate on climate as part of the so-called flexible mechanisms .
for this reason , the european union has decided to propose that we should adopt a system of trade-offs in greenhouse gas emissions within the union as from 2005 , and this is therefore different from what the kyoto protocol itself makes possible , which is that the international emissions trading is to start as from 2008 .
but within the european union this system can be tried out and it can be developed .
the key point about emissions trading is that in future not only electricity and gas will have a price , but also co2 .
that sounds very simple , but it means a total revolution in the energy business , in the energy sector .
i hope that following successful completion of the negotiations in the hague , the european union will ratify the kyoto protocol .
that means that we will be legally committing ourselves .
the next thing required is for the commission to bring forward a directive sharing the burden among the 15 member states .
in other words we will then have a common energy policy via environment policy , which would be a very circuitous route .
we could then start emissions trading within the european union in 2005 .
climate change is evident all over the world and we in europe are not so badly off as those in other regions - i have in mind the west coast of america and also bangladesh .
we now need to implement the kyoto objectives and the next climate change summit in the hague must go further than our efforts so far .
since it is also clear that co2 bears most responsibility for climate change and traffic is increasing further , what we need above all are concrete proposals for limiting urban traffic , and for appropriate taxation of transit traffic or for suitable road pricing arrangements .
we in europe are in the vanguard of environmental policy and if we want to maintain our credibility then we must go further than is proposed in the white paper today .
national policies , whatever they are , will have to go through national parliaments , but we will have a hand in agreeing whatever comes forward as a european union policy as a consequence of the hague .
we would like to be able to send a bigger delegation .
we would also like our representatives to be briefed before the conference .
finally , given that we know the causes of climate change , or are fairly clear that we know the causes of climate change , future generations will hardly forgive us for being so slow to deal with it .
let me first of all thank the rapporteur , mr moreira da silva , who has produced two excellent reports on our current climate change strategy .
let me also express my appreciation for the continued importance the european parliament attaches to the global problem of climate change .
as you know , the european union strongly supports the entry into force of the kyoto protocol by 2002 at the latest , which will mean rio plus ten years .
the european union intends to ratify the protocol as soon as cop6 is successfully concluded with decisions that safeguard the environmental integrity and credibility of the protocol .
industrialised countries emit most greenhouse gases and have a responsibility to show leadership in tackling climate change .
the outcome at cop6 should ensure this by balancing the use of kyoto mechanisms such as emissions trading with domestic action - supplementarity - and by addressing the need to demonstrate progress on policies for reducing emissions by 2005 .
these are necessary to make the mechanisms work effectively because markets can only work efficiently in a solid institutional framework .
sinks should not be included in the cdm - the clean development mechanism - because this is a mechanism that should be used to bring social and economic development to countries .
at cop6 we should develop these issues and agree that the clean development mechanism should be based on safe , environmentally sound technologies which will help these countries develop in a less polluting way .
a final decision concerning the number of meps to attend cop6 is expected by 31 october ; the commission has proposed that the european parliament be represented by eight members .
i can also give a commitment to organise an appropriate briefing before cop6 starts , maybe between 7 and 11 november , if possible - we will try to arrange that in the best possible way .
let me also comment on the question about ratification without the united states .
the european union is very committed to the ratification and entry into force of the protocol by 2002 at the latest .
i am pleased to note that the commission is supported by parliament and the council in its efforts to build up an effective european climate change programme .
the opinion of the european parliament 's committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy on this programme stresses that policies and measures should be the priority of eu climate change strategy .
it is important that this strategy is endorsed by all stakeholders and that is why the commission has embarked on this multi-stakeholder process in the framework of the climate change programme .
the environment council recently adopted conclusions on policies and measures to limit emissions of greenhouse gases , confirming the choices made in the framework of the european climate change programme .
at the same time they indicate some specific priorities in the transport , energy efficiency and industry sectors that should be developed , taking into account the environmental impact and cost-effectiveness of these measures .
these suggestions will be carefully considered in the ongoing work in the european climate change programme .
as you know , the programme is up and running and the six existing working groups - flexible mechanisms , energy supply , energy consumption , transport , industry and research have been operational since last june .
the first impression is certainly positive after the first four months .
a progress report on this programme will be the basis for my oral presentation at the special climate council on 7 november .
despite the very short time available , the programme is already suggesting a first list of likely measures in all the relevant sectors .
therefore , this climate change programme is a unique opportunity to bring together all the elements of an ambitious eu climate change strategy and the commission will follow-up by finalising the most promising proposals .
on the green paper on emissions trading , i would like to thank members for having considered it so substantively .
the commission is eager to hear the views of stakeholders and of course those of the european parliament .
differences of opinion on the details should be expected when approaching a new instrument in environment policy and i warmly welcome the supportive and constructive attitude that parliament has taken .
i hope that the green paper has gone some way towards overcoming this mistrust .
emissions trading within the european union would be another policy measure that would coexist with other policy measures that are now in place or are being developed by the commission in the context of the climate change programme .
i do not think that emissions trading favours nuclear power more than any of the other climate change measures that are being considered within the european climate change programme .
the case for getting started by 2005 remains as strong as ever so that the community can benefit from learning and by doing .
moreover , it is my intention - and i have already had talks on this last october - to involve the central and eastern european countries in any future emissions trading regime .
finally , the responses to the green paper that have been received so far - about 50 in number - reflect the high level of interest in this instrument .
opinions on what to do next vary and the commission will decide how to move forward within the next few months , after the submissions have been analysed in more detail and when we know the results of cop6 .
it has always been and remains the commission 's wish that whatever the community does on emissions trading should be fully compatible with the kyoto protocol 's emissions trading system when it comes into effect .
even the climate experts tell us that the very meteorology of our regions is changing .
and so , now that , sadly , our dead have been buried , the journalists have left the devastated areas and the river , in this case the po - i live by the po - is again taking its normal course , it is time , as we say in italy , to put up our umbrellas , not to appear prophets of doom but to evaluate once again the requirements and the remedies .
we need to be making political and regional planning decisions that protect the earth even when the sun is shining .
the resolution on the conference in the hague is that which is closest to us in time .
it has been characterised by considerable unity , which is a good foundation to have now that the conference in the hague is beginning .
i think the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy has given a clear message that we do not consider three representatives from the european parliament at the conference in the hague to be sufficient .
when regular meetings and regular updates during the conference in the hague are talked about , it is also important to emphasise that these must be constructive .
the most important additions include the clear indication , exactly as found in the cop 6 document , that emissions trading itself must not represent more than 50 per cent of the measures to reduce emissions .
it is also important that measurable objectives be required for each country and for each sector .
only half of the amendment published in the swedish document has been adopted .
it would have been still more welcome if it had been clearer and more practical , but we hope it will be clearer following the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy .
mr president , commissioner , i am very pleased that the debate on climatic change in europe and throughout the world has given us the opportunity to recall the cyclone that struck a large part of europe .
terror struck valle d ' aosta and the other regions and countries affected , which this terrible ordeal has placed in a veritable state of emergency , facing a long , costly list of damages .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , our climate is already changing .
the kyoto protocol is too restricted .
after 2020 , developing countries too are supposed to fight greenhouse gases , but on an equal footing .
each world citizen has the same right to emit co2 .
american citizens should not be entitled to emit two hundred times more co2 than people in east africa .
the swift ratification of the kyoto protocol is the right way forward .
europe must make every effort to achieve this 8 % objective .
a responsible policy on the part of the most developed countries must be based upon those countries ' being able to reduce their own emissions .
when it comes to mr moreira da silva ' s reports , we agree with the content of most of the paragraphs , but we are more sceptical about emissions trading .
mr president , in recent years we have witnessed an exponential increase in disasters on our territory : natural disasters which , in many cases , have caused havoc over entire regions and countries , natural disasters which are not entirely due to climate change - itself caused by interference from man - but which are also the result of changes made by man to the land , brought about by administrations , governments and citizens who have failed to make better provision for the environment , preserve it and guarantee its future .
this year , italy suffered first the tragedy in calabria and then the current colossal tragedy , which has claimed over 25 deaths and left over 45 thousand homeless in the north .
the italian government , which has set aside ridiculously small sums given the scale of the disaster - of which , moreover , warning was given - in a key production area for italy and europe , is treating these hard-working people inappropriately , irresponsibly and inefficiently , as it did the people affected by the earthquakes in umbria and southern italy .
climate protection is not a marginal subject for environment freaks , it is one of the greatest challenges of our time .
the dreadful storms and floods which have ravaged europe and the rest of the world in recent months should be a wake-up call for us all .
nearly all the scientific experts are telling us that these storms and floods will dramatically increase if we do not achieve a marked reduction in greenhouse gas emissions .
however , i believe that we must use every possible means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions .
and that is the reason why on behalf of the group of the european people 's party i have tabled an amendment calling for a european climate tax which covers all greenhouse gases and is revenue-neutral .
the group of the european people 's party also considers that nuclear energy will be indispensable at least for the next few decades if we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions .
abandoning nuclear energy , as is planned in some member states , who are actually going ahead with that , gives exactly the wrong signal , because nuclear power stations emit considerably less greenhouse gases than fossil fuels .
what i have observed since then is that parliament has made certain concessions here , but always against the tactical background that we want the country with the highest co2 emissions to come on board as regards kyoto .
mr president , i am glad to hear that the commissioner is pressing for eight members of this house to attend cop6 , but i want to emphasise that we want to play a constructive role in eu strategy making .
that really spells out the differences between the approach of the united states representatives and those of this parliament .
so the prospects for cop6 look poor , but the prospects of our meeting our goals even with kyoto do not look that good either .
if we are serious about the environment , these must be resisted .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , some people are attempting to get the nuclear debate put back on the agenda .
i believe that european environment ministers have so far adopted the very wise approach of excluding it from the list of flexible mechanisms .
nuclear power is more expensive than other options , such as energy efficiency , for example , and every dollar that is invested in nuclear power is denied to other investments that are much more profitable .
we can help the chinese , the indians , indonesia and the pakistanis much more by giving them the means to buy refrigerators that do not consume much energy , because there will be 800 million refrigerators over the next ten years .
mr president , the rapporteur correctly maintains that climate change is one of the most serious environmental problems we are facing today .
although three years have already passed since the kyoto conference and the commitment to reduce greenhouse gases by 8 % in comparison with 1990 levels , and as the european environment agency has reminded us , if very specific political measures are not taken , this reduction will not take place ; on the contrary , greenhouse gases will increase by 6 % .
i also share the rapporteur 's concern for specific policies and measures to take priority over emissions trading , which should be ancillary to them .
in any case , we believe that the priority for the european union must be specific measures and policies and the definition of a european programme on climate change , which must also have specific objectives and aims , and it worries us that this is not the philosophy that will be advocated at the forthcoming hague conference .
in conclusion , mr president , i , like other members , will recall the floods in spain and italy , which seem to us , like other so-called natural disasters , to be an expression of climate change .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , first of all , i would like to add my congratulations to those already offered to the rapporteur for these two superb reports .
with regard to the first report , i will simply make mention of the floods and the victims that there were in the east of spain , attributed to climate change , as the previous speakers have already talked about both these things .
with regard to the second report , i consider that emissions trading should be approached as an instrument with which to facilitate the fulfilment of obligations under the kyoto convention .
various attitudes have been adopted in the face of this flexible mechanism : expectant , reactive or active .
i think that from both the economic and environmental point of view we must adopt an active stance .
this is also an opportunity to encourage research and development in the field of new technologies for controlling pollution , contrary to the opinion of those who believe that this mechanism is a way of perpetuating the interests of the large polluting corporations .
if this tool is correctly applied , pollution will become more and more expensive and the market will ensure that products obtained through the least clean methods become obsolete .
it is essential that this mechanism is developed transparently as an integral part of the raft of measures that the member states is to adopt within the context of the european climate change strategy .
to this end , all the member states must take great pains to communicate with the public so that it is clear from the outset which objectives are being pursued with this mechanism and what the benefits are , that these are always partial and complementary to other types of measure .
the exact relationship between co2 emissions and global warming is not yet entirely clear , but that should not prevent us from taking drastic measures now .
according to experts , we need to reduce current co2 emission levels by 60 % in order to halt climate change .
sound cooperation between rich and poor countries is needed to achieve climate objectives .
mr president , the climate changes caused by our consumer habits have begun .
we know that the most important stage will take place at the hague in november .
we will see whether or not the parties who committed themselves at kyoto will exercise their responsibilities and meet the demands of the global issues that await us , which put us all in the same boat and spare no one .
our mandate is clear and our demands are forceful .
ratifying the kyoto protocol is crucial , as is the implementation of domestic measures that will make a real contribution to the fight against greenhouse gas emissions .
the european union must refuse to integrate nuclear power , even if there is strong pressure in favour of mechanisms for clean development .
the european union does not have the right to shirk its commitments .
according to an estimate made by the european environment agency , greenhouse gas emissions in the eu are expected to increase by 6 % during the period 1990 - 2010 .
the committee also considers it necessary to increase financial support for public transport and it criticised the commission for the fact that policy and action in the eu strategy on a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions are of secondary importance .
this is such a simple fact that i almost feel ashamed to mention it , but i believe this is the main source of confusion in the way we think .
i would emphasise , in particular , points 6 , 7 and 8 of the joint resolution : europe must call upon the member states to update their laws on the environment , the abuse of planning permission , reforestation , the revitalisation of mountain areas and , in general , on the promotion of farming methods which are intended to protect and safeguard the land as well as yield increasing quantities of produce .
clearly , an action of this scale cannot be effectively developed purely at national level , primarily because of the scale of the resources needed but also because of the very nature of the natural phenomena in question which , like those relating to climate change and damage arising from co2 emissions , are in no way contained by borders .
in asking you to support our resolution , ladies and gentlemen , we are calling not merely for an urgent intervention to contribute to repairing the damage but for a longer-term policy which will make europe an increasingly safer and more enjoyable place to live for its citizens .
mr president , the commission and others have predicted that most member states will not achieve their targets for limiting greenhouse gas emissions in line with the commitments under the kyoto protocol , so it is essential that effective measures are implemented now .
one estimate says that 10,000 people have been killed in the past two years because of the effects of climate change , the majority of them in the developing countries .
we can , and must , adopt effective and innovative solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time protect our society and our jobs .
several economists have analysed the effects of this on a europe-wide level , and have come to similar conclusions that there is , or could be , a beneficial effect on employment .
i hope parliament 's demands which are set out in the reports before us are acted upon and that governments approach the hague conference in a positive way so we can see the kyoto protocol ratified in the near future .
this is as much a matter of cap reform as it is of environmental policy and it is only by drawing together the two that sensible progress can be made .
we must therefore remedy this situation .
i am therefore one of the signatories to a motion for a resolution suggesting not only the rapid application of the measures contained in the kyoto protocol to combat climate change , but also other types of preventative measures , for example continuing and intensifying efforts to prevent the effects of rain when creating infrastructures , and finally , aid to all the victims , given that they are not responsible for the short or long-term damage caused by human greed and speculation .
however , it should be remembered that the environmentalists are almost alone in fighting to stop construction on floodplains , to bring about the cleaning-up of water channels , to stop the concreting of river banks or uncontrolled excavations , and to call for measures on reforestation and the protection of mountains , the only operations which can reduce the amount of rain water and avoid landslides .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , europe can certainly contribute , but it is the , sometimes unpopular , decisions taken in the areas affected which will be a true measure of the commitment to attempting to ensure that such catastrophic events are not repeated .
firstly i would like to thank mr moreira da silva for his clear-sighted and pertinent analyses , and for the excellent proposals he has put forward in both his reports .
as a result , this mechanism must be looked upon not as a frontline tool but , on the contrary , as an instrument complementary to other measures aimed at reducing greenhouses gases .
we are fully aware that this mechanism does not encourage companies to become less polluting and to change their ways , and that , if nothing else is done , especially in the area of transport , we will certainly not achieve the objectives set by the kyoto protocol .
on this point , it seems to me that there is a case for backing one of the amendments tabled by my colleagues in the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left , who deem it necessary to stay the implementation of a system of entitlement to pollute until the council and the member states have drawn up and ratified an operational plan of measures to reduce greenhouse gases , encompassing all the sectors involved , especially transport and agriculture .
finally , where are our environmental objectives in this sort of international stock market of pollution rights and what can be expected of a system which simply opens up a huge market of rights on behalf of countries which , like russia , may today have room for manoeuvre , not by virtue of bringing their factories up to the required standards , but quite simply by virtue of a dramatic reduction in their industrial output .
to conclude , i think that we must press for the implementation of a framework agreement of cooperation between russia and the european union so as to put in place ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , although the priority in the union ' s policy on climate must be a sustainable environmental policy , in taking decisions we must also pay attention to the importance of the international competitiveness of industry and the undisturbed workings of the internal market .
although a given sector might be amongst the world ' s best in terms of environmental efficiency in one country , and i can say that is true of many sectors of industry in my country , finland , for example , it might have to agree to a more stringent quota for emissions than its less efficient competitor in another country .
it is essential to promote measures that can be implemented in practice and do not jeopardise the competitiveness of enterprises .
along with france , my own country , finland , is at present the only eu country where the building of additional nuclear power stations is being considered .
for that reason we should not adopt a position in this report either in favour of individual forms of electricity production or specifically in opposition to them : instead , all the various forms of energy production must be at our disposal while we formulate national climate strategies .
voluntary agreements could in particular be a good mechanism for use in the enlargement process .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in illustrating the resolution proposed by italian meps , i feel that it must be said that , for the second time in five years , we have experienced a natural disaster in the same region of our country , italy .
this has , on the one hand , allowed us to gain a deeper understanding of the issue , an understanding forced upon us by tragic events but , on the other hand , it imposes upon us certain burdens which are certainly not ours alone : they are not the burdens of one or more affected regions , they are burdens not only of the country but of the international community as well , so that solidarity is displayed and acknowledged at different levels .
and it has been displayed , at least initially , at moral , political , economic and legislative levels .
i put down two amendments , one calling for further research into the other greenhouse gases such as methane , soot , cfcs , etc .
i should like to touch on two controversial topics in the report .
one is the issue of an eu-wide carbon tax , which i reject both because it encroaches on prerogatives on taxation and because it would drive jobs offshore to non-eu jurisdictions , in my view , and be damaging to our economies .
the natural catastrophes which have struck the european union and its citizens have had tragic consequences .
they have confronted us with severe physical damage and in some cases loss of human life , recently in italy and now in spain .
the commission is acutely aware of the weight of these catastrophes .
this is why the commission , in the area of community action for civil protection in the period 2000-2004 , is developing initiatives in close collaboration with member states to prevent catastrophes and educate the public .
on 27 september the commission therefore adopted a proposal based on a council decision which instituted a community mechanism to coordinate measures for civil protection during emergencies .
the key actions included in this decision are : identification of and improved coordination among the key actors to intervene in the case of emergencies ; special training programmes to promote better cooperation and complementarity between the actors concerned ; establishment of efficient communication systems to allow for better and more rapid communications .
the proposal also permits faster and more effective steps to be taken on behalf of victims .
in the area of research i would like to point out that there are currently several projects under way related to flooding as well as the concerted action to reduce the risks associated with climate .
the possibility of structural fund involvement in cases of natural disaster must fit within the requirements of the funds and the following conditions must be met : the area in question must be eligible for funding under the territorial objectives , namely objective 1 or objective 2 .
eligible reconstruction projects may not represent the majority of expenditure in the programme concerned .
the actions must have a transitional nature , one or two years maximum , and they may not continue throughout the programming period .
in order to call upon the structural funds for this type of action it must be shown that the programme has room to manoeuvre internally .
it goes without saying that the member states concerned are in charge and that it is up to them to envisage what type of measure they would like to see eventually financed by the structural funds when the conditions for intervention are fulfilled .
with regard to cooperation on spatial planning solutions to flooding problems , the commission knows that the interreg iii guidelines make specific reference to the possibility of formulating joint strategies for risk management in areas prone to natural disasters and drawing up and implementing integrated strategies and actions for the prevention of flooding in transnational river catchment areas .
the commission would also expect that flood prevention actions would form part of a transnational strategy which covers areas where flooding is a particular risk under interreg iii .
for its part , the commission will continue to give prompt and constructive consideration to this type of request .
let me just finish by underlying the support of victims .
the european parliament regularly asks the commission to intervene on behalf of the victims of these disasters .
the commission is obliged to respond that there is no longer a budget line which permits such measures .
however , the commission has not yet taken a final position on whether to propose a legal basis for measures in this area .
the second option would be for the commission to propose a legal basis but this would mean tying up significant sums within heading 3 of the financial perspective .
the commission would also need to take into account the resource implications of managing any new activities in this area .
thank you for your contribution to this debate .
no , mr davies , this is not something one can legislate for .
the debate is closed .
we know that they can cause deformities in the sexual organs , in both animals and humans , and we know that they can cause severe diseases , including testicular cancer and breast cancer .
however , at the same time , there is still great uncertainty concerning the collective consequences of the many endocrine-disrupting substances .
it could easily be slightly more ambitious .
in the report i have proposed that this should be done before the end of this year .
at the same time , it is essential for the most dangerous substances on the list to be identified so that initiatives can be taken immediately to intervene in respect of the most dangerous substances .
various measures may be taken : bans , phasing out over a shorter or longer period of years and other restrictions on use .
we must also do it through aggressive use of the precautionary principle , in which connection i also think it is important to give consideration to particularly vulnerable groups .
industry must be required to report on which chemical substances are being put onto the market , in what quantities they are being used and what the expected effects are .
we know that these substances can interact in a particularly unfortunate way .
as part of future legislation on chemical substances , i believe it would be a good thing if we succeeded in establishing a special framework , some special chapters on endocrine disrupters .
there must be a legislative framework that is based on the precautionary principle and on the principle of a reverse burden of proof .
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the various groups and thank the commission for the cooperation we have had in connection with the drawing up of the report .
it is ourselves in the commission , the council and parliament who must lay down the legislative frameworks , and not the scientific committees .
the eu scientific committee on toxicity , eco-toxity and the environment has noted that there is a potentially global problem with wildlife .
these substances can have excessively harmful effects on reproductive functions , whether they be human , animal or plant .
moreover , this is the meaning of paragraphs 3 , 6 and 7 .
better cooperation with american and japanese research authorities is absolutely vital .
this research alone will allow us to take into consideration the specific risks linked to these disrupters in future framework legislation on chemical substances .
the rapporteur - who has produced an excellent report - cites the precautionary principle as the basis for the relevant measures to be taken .
the precautionary principle not only leads to the implementation of legislative measures ; positive , non-legislative measures may also be introduced .
my amendment aims to make this reality .
i also hope that the opinion of the scientific committee on toxicity , eco-toxicity and the environment , which was expressed on 5 september , will be taken into consideration .
the expertise of this scientific committee is well known and it would be appropriate to take its opinion into account before any legislative decision is taken .
the precautionary principle also dictates that we should base our decision on the best scientific knowledge available .
it seems to me that this procedure is already a safeguard .
i agree with the rapporteur that our parliament must send a realistic and responsible message to the general public , to consumers , to the commission and also to industry in general .
their doubts and concerns are real .
we do not know the answers and there are more than 500 chemicals from which we could choose .
i have doubts about the use of the precautionary principle and of course , about the misuse of the precautionary principle - by its nature we never know when it is appropriate to use it or not .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to congratulate mr torben lund on a sterling report which can rely on my group ' s unqualified support .
in my own linguistic area , the term did not become an established concept until one or two years ago .
half of the 560 substances which are suspected of having an endocrine disruptive effect are pesticides .
in my view , this should be put right during the revision of the pesticide directive in 2003 at the latest .
this example shows that the harmful effects of various endocrine disrupters is a global problem that has affected even the most isolated parts of the world .
it is precisely now that there is reason for using this principle far more aggressively .
we cannot be too prompt in implementing the report ' s recommendations to the effect that future framework legislation on chemical substances should be based both on the precautionary principle and on a reverse burden of proof .
i think anyone listening to this debate who has never heard of endocrine disrupters would be forgiven for thinking that endocrine disrupters were more to do with some science fiction horror story than their own public health .
presently , community chemicals legislation fails to address the risk that endocrine disrupters pose .
it is a worrying fact that the human body contains more than 100 chemicals which were not present 50 years ago .
a further problem is the fact that it is almost impossible to set limit values for hormone-mimicking substances .
that is why this report is so important .
one of the reasons for this is the significant potential damage that such substances can cause to animals and human beings and , most importantly , to the unborn foetus and our reproductive capacity .
the area of endocrine disrupters is a complex one where there are still many questions to be answered .
what we do know is that a number of man-made chemicals that have been released into the environment , as well as a few natural ones , have the potential to disrupt the endocrine system of animals , including humans .
among these are persistent bio-accumulative compounds that include some pesticides and industrial chemicals as well as other synthetic products .
there are adequate quantitative data showing a causal link between exposure to these substances and a reduction in reproductive success in wildlife .
however , there are also many uncertainties since the nature and extent of the effects of exposure on humans are not well established .
i am pleased that parliament supports the commission objective to identify appropriate policy action on the basis of the precautionary principle in order to respond quickly and effectively to the problem of endocrine disruption .
this principle and the need to develop quick and effective risk management strategies in relation to endocrine disrupters was also stressed by the environmental council in its conclusions of 30 march .
regarding research and development , the commission 's main instrument is the fifth framework programme on research and development .
i am pleased to inform you that endocrine disruption has been highlighted as a priority research topic in the latest revision of the relevant programmes concerning human health and the environment .
the recommendations in the parliament motion for a resolution will be taken into account .
for this reason we believe that legislative action to reduce exposure in a comprehensive manner , on the basis of the precautionary principle , can be considered only when agreed test methods are available .
agreed test methods are also necessary to launch a comprehensive exercise in the search for substitutes .
at the same time we need to take into account existing scientific evidence .
that is why we make provision in the short term to act without agreed test methods on the basis of the precautionary principle and on a case-by-case basis .
parliament supports the commission objective to identify a first set of endocrine disrupting substances by the end of this year and to identify specific cases of consumer use and eco-system exposure for special action without awaiting further tests .
an analysis of existing legal instruments relating to endocrine disrupters will also be part of this exercise .
first , the commission objective of the end of 2000 is based on a two-step process : firstly a candidate list compiled by consultants and secondly prioritisation .
the second step of this exercise involves consultation with stakeholders in which we aim to achieve as wide a consensus as possible on priority substances .
i cannot give a commitment now that all 553 candidate substances will be on the priority list without pre-empting the outcome of the stakeholders ' discussions , which are under way .
in contrast , initial comments received from member states and ngos indicate support for the report as a valid starting point .
i would like to add here that some of the criticisms are based on the false assumption that a group of 60 substances identified in this report will be the priority substances .
these substances are in fact part of a candidate list of 553 substances on which discussions on priorities are still under way .
my second comment in relation to the priority list of substances concerns the request in the motion for a resolution for a decision on intervention on specific cases by mid-2001 .
in addition , the role of the scientific committees in providing independent scientific advice will be crucial in these specific cases .
finally , as you are aware , the commission intends to present a white paper on the overall chemicals policy by the end of this year .
one of the fundamental principles for this policy is to ensure a high level of protection .
clearly the endocrine disrupting strategy must be consistent with the overall policy on chemicals .
a number of specific elements in parliament 's motion for a resolution , such as the shifting of the burden of proof , a redefinition of the responsibility of manufacturers , a review of labelling legislation and grouping of chemicals for screening and testing , must be and are being addressed in the context of this overall chemicals policy .
the views of parliament expressed in the motion for a resolution will be taken into account in the white paper under preparation .
finally , regarding international cooperation and information exchange , the commission is organising a workshop on endocrine disrupters in the first half of 2001 with the sponsorship of the world health organisation among others .
this workshop will convene all stakeholders to take stock of progress and make further recommendations on the development of test methods and testing strategy , research and the establishment of monitoring programmes .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m .
in recent years , fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the dollar and other circumstances have brought the level of aid down to half the level it was at four years ago .
the commission ' s proposal , however , consists in stabilising aid at the reduced level and granting aid directly to producer organisations , with which the minimum price regime will disappear .
before the end of the year , the commission is to submit a report on the operation of the com on fruit and vegetables , possibly supplementing it with new proposals for reform .
the commission justifies the proposal we are now examining on the grounds of urgency .
the problem is that , after the 1996 reform of the com , the producer organisations became its main instrument .
currently , however , only 40 % of fruit and vegetable production is pooled within producer organisations .
a com that only covers 40 % of production does not deserve the name .
since this is an exception in the common agricultural policy and the producers themselves have to cofinance the operational funds , an increase in community funding is clearly the most obvious instrument for achieving this objective .
the agriculture committee has therefore proposed an increase in the percentage of community financing for certain joint schemes involving several producer organisations under certain conditions , especially in the regions most dependent on fruit and vegetable production , or for associations or mergers of producer organisations .
the differences in the figures between the commission ' s proposal and that of the agriculture committee , which was , in fact , passed almost unanimously , basically centre on aid levels and processing thresholds .
the agriculture committee ' s line is in fact limited to restoring pre-1996 aid levels .
a reasonable level of aid would allow producers ' incomes to be maintained in a particularly difficult situation .
you see , fruit and vegetables currently receive eur 445 million less than the ceiling set in the financial perspective .
in my view , budget neutrality consists in keeping within the limits set when the financial perspective was adopted .
our main concern should be to improve the effectiveness of the instruments that we have all built up together .
without a budget there can be no building of europe , and the budget for the fruit and vegetable sector symbolises and reflects many of the main social and territorial imbalances in the common policy .
madam president , commissioner , tomorrow parliament is to vote on the proposal for reform in the processed fruit and vegetable sector .
i believe this reform is necessary , but in its proposal the european commission is not moving in exactly the right direction .
therefore the approved amendments proposed by the rapporteur on this matter enjoy our full approval .
the list of products should be extended to include those that may be vulnerable to major falls in prices due to the weather or for cyclical reasons .
the commission ' s proposal to reduce the maximum citrus-fruit withdrawal ceiling from 10 % to 5 % is unjustified and i believe it should not be upheld .
with regard to dry fruit and nuts , especially hazelnuts , the request to extend the period of aid given to producer organisations that have implemented their improvement plans is still valid , as are the measures specific to this sector which are due to expire in the next round even though there has been no change in their circumstances .
these reforms mean a budget increase , but within the line approved at the berlin european summit .
the commission should do its sums again in view of the fact that this ceiling is not exceeded .
madam president , this debate is a consequence of the commission ' s proposed reform of three regulations : on fruit and vegetables , products derived from fruit and vegetables , and the aid scheme for producers of certain citrus fruits .
as has been pointed out , the commission has acted without awaiting the report on the operation of regulation ( ec ) no 2020 / 1996 , which , according to the commission , will be available by the end of this year .
the fact that it has not waited for this document - as would have seemed more natural - and has initiated the reform reveals that the commission either has little interest in the results of its report or could not care less about its contents .
in my view , if the question is whether or not the regulations need reforming , the answer is yes ; but , on the other hand , if the question is whether the reform they need is that contained in the commission ' s proposal , then the answer is clearly no , because improvements in the operating mechanisms of the sector must not be achieved at the expense of precisely one of the sectors that receives least support in community budgets .
we do not intend to oppose these agreements or criticise them , because they are an exercise in solidarity with third-world and developing countries , but it does not seem sensible that the price of solidarity should be paid exclusively by a sector that has never been treated well in community budgets .
moreover , i give this support in the belief that the council will be more sensitive than the commission to the reasoned and reasonable proposals of the european parliament .
we are convinced that the commission ' s proposal is restrictive in budgetary terms , which would mean major financial cut-backs in the sector .
it should be remembered that the fruit and vegetable sector is the first common organisation of the market to be financed by its own producers , so it is vitally important to encourage producer organisations and to support an increase in operational funds .
it must be stressed that the fruit and vegetable sector represents a considerable percentage of final agricultural production in the european union .
i must mention the predominantly mediterranean nature of this type of production , which affects several member states .
in general terms it is the main source of income for almost two million families in europe .
the fruit and vegetable sector , however , faces an uncertain future due in part to the erosion of community preference in the euro-mediterranean free trade area , which may wipe out all the work that has been done .
particularly serious are the measures designed to abolish the minimum price , which affects tomatoes destined for processing , the reduction in the limit for aid for operational funds from 4.5 % to 3 % of the value of the production marketed by each producer organisation , the precautionary reduction of 9.1 % of the amount of aid for the first marketing year following the reform of the com and a reduction in the citrus fruit withdrawal ceiling .
the amendments tabled by the rapporteur , mr jove peres , therefore deserve our support , since they seek to correct the unacceptable views held by the commission , specifically in its proposals against increasing aid to farmers , on increasing thresholds and on resetting ceilings for aid to producer organisations .
in the name of a global foreign policy , brussels has sacrificed our tree growers , our market gardeners and our horticulturists , who have become a currency of exchange in the free exchange culture .
the deal is well known : fruit and vegetables , flowers and wine in the southern hemisphere and , perhaps , industry in the north .
but if we do not put an end to the global drift in european integration , little by little not only will the farmers disappear , but the whole of europe will drown in the ocean of the global market .
madam president , commissioner , when developing any strategy , before starting to distort the past and adopt new operating guidelines , one must analyse how much has been achieved .
it would now seem to be irrefutable that since 1996 - the year which saw a complete revision of the com in processed fruit and vegetables - there has not been any form of discussion , even though it had always been intended , on the impact of the com in that sector , despite the fact that it has reached its third year of application : a period of time that has to be seen as long enough for introducing any reform initiative .
the interests of an entire industry are at stake , an industry which employs almost 2 million people in the central southern areas of the mediterranean countries , universally acknowledged to be among the poorest countries in the european union .
the fruit and vegetable sector is struggling between production quotas and world-wide liberalisation of the markets for want of a policy for research into biotechnological innovations .
it is the processing sector which feels the effects of the marrakech international agreements most of all , even though it accounts for 16 % of the value of european union agricultural production .
if the philosophy behind the new com is to promote the system of associations of producer organisations as an alternative and a complement to the european economic system of large-scale distributors , it would be appropriate for this policy to be bolstered with the financial resources needed to implement the operational programmes , ensuring real financial assistance of at least 4.5 % of the marketed production instead of the 3 % proposed by the commission .
in order to be able to continue to work , producers are calling for the adoption of legislation which will support the development of the fruit and vegetable sector , not hamper it .
madam president , commissioner , the market organisation in fruit and vegetables was reformed in 1997 and , three years down the line , the results have not lived up to expectations .
the reform has not brought the future we all hoped for at the outset because , in fact , as was highlighted by a previous speaker , the membership rate of the producer organisations has remained very low : less than 40 % .
under these conditions , the producer organisations have been unable to have a real impact on controlling and promoting products in the fruit and vegetables sector .
we are thus faced with a paradoxical situation where one of the most important sectors of european agriculture , which covers 20 % of production units , employs a great deal of manpower in production and processing , and accounts for 16 % of final agricultural production , is ultimately one of the sectors least taken into account by the common agricultural policy .
against this background , i naturally want to highlight the opportunity provided by the commission proposal that we are debating this evening .
finally , i hope that the council of ministers will make a speedy decision in respect of this reform so that it can come into force in 2001 with the appropriate funding .
the sector must secure a stronger market position .
i would like to make a number of observations with regard to the distribution of processing and threshold quotas across the countries .
but in this report , i am precisely in favour of strengthening producer organisations , also by way of responding to this report .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , on 12 july the commission presented a proposal for amending the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables , although we are expecting an evaluation report from the commission in december 2000 on functioning of this very market organisation .
furthermore , direct sales from the farm emphasise the regional nature of products and thus appeal to a certain type of consumer .
the result would be that the producer organisations ' sales volume would fall and that they would lose their influence over these producers ' direct sales activities , as regards complying with quality standards , observing production guidelines and pursuing joint market strategies .
commissioner , this sector seems to be the hard currency used in preferential agreements with third countries and in the subsequent reviews of their protocols , with the added disadvantage that these countries produce without the economic , social and environmental conditions we have in europe , but with the same timetables as our own producing areas .
thirdly , the level of operational funds is also completely inadequate .
i therefore feel that certain subsidies have been particularly depleted , not only by the general fall in the euro which we have witnessed recently - in which regard it would be appropriate to take action before the situation degenerates into a dispute with the european establishment as a whole - but also with regard to the attitude to be adopted in respect of mediterranean products .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i have great sympathy for the efforts being made by the commission and the commissioner to make savings , which is quite justifiable .
but without wishing to indulge in special pleading , the situation in the fruit and vegetable sector is visibly deteriorating .
for example , you can live very well from 40 hectares in the area i come from , the south tyrol .
so it is not quite that bad , but nevertheless ...
international trade agreements are to some extent at the expense of this fruit and vegetable sector and therefore benefit other sectors .
that was the reason why the commission to some extent anticipated the report and brought forward this proposal for discussion without waiting for the final report .
but the fact that we anticipated these four areas does not mean that we will not present the report required in the com .
in view of the budget situation and the berlin decisions , any proposal that would have led to substantial increases in budgetary expenditure in favour of a specific sector would have been unrealistic .
for tomatoes , pears , peaches and citrus fruits , individual thresholds for member states have been set in addition to the community threshold , and permanent aid is paid direct to the producer organisations .
the second group of amendments are specific requests relating to the functioning of the com , for example amendment no 5 on new raw manure , and amendments nos 27 , 21 , 25 and 34 on special support measures for severe crises .
amendment no 18 is intended to improve the scope for direct sales , and amendments nos 22 to 24 relate to the operational fund .
the third group of amendments does relate to the proposal actually being debated here .
amendments nos 6 and 25 propose an increase in community support via the operational funds .
the aim of amendments nos 31 and 32 is to strike out the reductions in market withdrawal ceilings proposed by the commission .
amendment no 39 proposes simplification of the procedure for adjusting new products in the processing sector .
amendment no 43 relates to transitional arrangements for tomatoes and amendment no 12 calls for a study on the abolition of the minimum price .
lastly , amendments nos 62 to 66 provide for direct aids for producers not involved in processing .
i cannot therefore accept these amendments .
of course the issue of the overall level of community financing for this sector is also to be discussed by the council on monday .
amendments nos 62 to 66 change the existing system in a way that would jeopardise efforts to develop producer organisations .
the commission regards this as an unnecessary disadvantaging of this sector .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m .
madam president , when i first started to consider drafting this report , i wondered whether it was a wise decision for any politician from northern ireland to agree to bring forward a report on box viia in the irish sea .
however , i believe that in politics you have to take on board some of the more positive aspects of life .
while this may have been a poisoned chalice initially , i hope that ultimately , i , parliament and the commission can together develop something that will be very positive and fruitful for the fishermen who depend on fishing in the irish sea .
perhaps five years ago if you told fishermen in that particular area that there was a need for this , they would have said there was no need for it .
now there would be a more positive response and a recognition that there is a problem , there has been a problem .
the real question now is how we resolve that problem .
i welcome the cooperation that has existed between the fishermen , their representatives , the commission and local , regional and national governments , on this particular point .
it is a very technical report and requires the cooperation of the fishermen with the commission and regional authorities to ensure that we no longer destroy what was considered a very natural resource in the past .
what the fishermen are asking is that the commission responds to them in a more positive way than it has in the past .
that is no easy task way for anyone .
i believe we can find a way through and a positive way forward , but only if everyone cooperates .
i hope the commissioner can be positive in his response .
it is not a burden that is easily carried so we require a review every 12 months .
however , this can only work if the problems of the origin principle and of recrimination , powers and responsibilities can finally be solved at all levels .
and it is quite simple to do that in the middle of the night in the irish sea .
that is why the committee on fisheries unanimously supported our feisty colleague james nicholson .
madam president , rapporteur and commissioner , this report is a tragic tale about a fish which one author has quoted as literally changing the world in the past thousand years .
this report outlines the technical measures which can be used to preserve juvenile cod .
it can provide short-term solutions for a longer-term problem .
this will enable us to vote tomorrow on a commission proposal which very much needs to be implemented .
i should like , however , to raise a series of questions that have occurred to me regarding amendments nos 1 and 2 , which ask that the changes in fishing techniques to be adopted under this proposal should be subsidised under the fifg .
although in principle i have nothing against aid to fishermen , i do think it should be granted within a specific framework and in accordance with unequivocal criteria , and this is the basis of my question : to clarify what these criteria are .
the rapporteur invokes articles 15 and 16 of regulation ( ec ) no 2792 / 1999 in support of his request for aid .
i think it is worth making this point clear , because it is obvious that any technical measure means an economic loss for fishermen , either directly or indirectly .
if this is the criterion that must be followed , it is also clear that if measures such as those proposed are subsidised , then subsidies will also have to be given to any others deriving from a modification of technical measures which would result in changes in the use of fishing techniques or methods , in other words virtually all the reforms under the technical measures regulation .
the major fisheries organisations in the uk - the scottish fishermen 's federation and the national federation of fishermen 's organisations - which , between them represent the interests of 1900 vessels , both support the concept of zonal management .
that is why again , zonal fisheries management which involves all fishermen working in a common fishery will ensure that the rules are applied fairly and squarely across the board .
this report is timely , as cod stocks are not only diminishing rapidly in the irish sea but are in spiral decline around all the waters of the united kingdom .
hopefully this report will mark the beginning of the recovery of cod stocks in the irish sea and will pave the way to the future .
there are two reasons why the commission cannot accept amendments nos 3 and 4 , which relate to compensatory aid .
second , and even more importantly , there are member states who have to decide under regulation 27 / 97 whether they will offer fishermen compensatory aid for temporarily withdrawing from fishing activity or not .
the other two amendments , amendments nos 1 and 2 , address a future review of the regulation and the commission finds them difficult for the following reasons : first , the fact that everyone - the commission , member states ' administrations and also fishermen themselves - want the regulation to come into force on 1 january 2001 .
in my opinion , any delay in this entry into force is to be avoided .
this could well lead to a review of the measures and conditions to be put in place now .
if you want to defend that to the fishermen you can do so , but i will not be part of it .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m .
the local loop unbundling regulation is an important piece of legislation which completes unfinished business from the past but also represents an important step forward into the future .
at the same time , by ensuring that access to the local loop - the last mile of so-called copper wire - is now open to all new market entrants and is not the exclusive province of the so-called incumbent operators , the regulation will act as a significant boost for increased choice of non-voice services for consumers .
as such , it will help fulfil the promise made in lisbon in march of this year when a number of ambitious targets were set , which , it is said , will help ensure that the gap that has opened between the european union and the united states in the information economy is closed as soon as possible .
the procedure we had to follow , in order to act as quickly as possible upon the conclusions of the lisbon summit and the proposal of the commission in july , has been unusual .
i am told that if we vote on the report tomorrow and adopt our report as voted in the committee it will be the fastest piece of legislation of this type ever processed by the european union institutions .
firstly , cooperation with the commission - and i would like to thank commissioner liikanen and all his extremely good officials who have been working on this for their assiduous help throughout the process .
i have had the privilege and the benefit of working with a number of colleagues of all groups who have pulled together in the committee to produce the report which we will be voting on tomorrow .
those of us who have worked on it all agree that if this sets a precedent for the future , we could perhaps consider promulgating some rules which will facilitate this kind of process in the future but also some rules on substance .
the european consumer has , in the worst cases , had to pay ten times more to connect to the internet than the americans .
on behalf of my group , i hope that tomorrow ' s vote has a positive outcome and then the ball really will be in the council ' s court , and we shall be able to apply the new regulations within the framework of new legislation at the beginning of the new year .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , my thanks go to mr clegg for his excellent work .
in just a few weeks we in the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy have dealt with this issue and have , under the leadership of the rapporteur , succeeded in negotiating this proposal with the commission and the council , a proposal that must surely be adopted tomorrow without amendment .
that is very important .
the argument that this will allow new services to develop does not stand up , given that these services can be developed by the telecommunications organisations equally well and , without the strain of having to make huge profits , certainly more cheaply .
i believe it is important to ensure that the changes take place in a controlled way , to allow all players involved the time to adjust and to guarantee the rights of all consumers .
i believe that the national regulatory authority should be able to play a fair and mediating role between existing operators and new networks .
madam president , commissioner , the lisbon extraordinary european council set a basic strategic objective for the european union : that of becoming ' the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world ' .
for this statement to become reality , it must be followed by measures to liberalise the markets , promote competition and thereby open up access for new suppliers of telecommunications services and in particular internet services .
in my country , italy , the conditions for the liberalisation of the last mile have existed for a long time , but the national telecommunications authority has delayed practical implementation , in particular with regard to fixing price charges for access to the local loop .
there are parties who have much to lose and , in italy , there is a conflict of interests between the state as regulator and the state as owner or controller of some of the main telecommunications services companies .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , as the previous speakers have already said , we are entering new territory with the regulation on unbundled access to the local loop .
the aim of this is to approve the regulation on unbundled access quickly , so that local telecommunications markets can be opened up to competition by the end of the year .
without nicholas clegg and all his commitment it would not have been possible to consider the regulation so swiftly in committee and here in the plenary and , i hope , to approve it tomorrow .
he has been able to reconcile varying positions and to present parliament 's views to the council .
the regulation is intended to provide for competition in this " last mile . "
according to the latest studies , at the beginning of 2000 only 400 000 europeans had access to broadband services , compared with 3 million in the usa .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , many thanks to nicholas clegg also for his hard work .
this initiative will ultimately also help to promote the information society .
but quicker and cheaper internet access without content is worthless .
above all , the information society must mean investment in people and their skills .
one important point is that the regulation regulates in the spirit of the original telecommunications liberalisation , that is in an asymmetrical way .
i hope that the council will not leave us in the lurch should one or other member state perhaps still have reservations .
mr clegg said in his speech that this was a controversial and complicated piece of work and i think therefore we chose well to appoint him as a rapporteur .
it will not surprise this house to know that , as a representative of the british conservative party - and it was the conservative government that privatised british telecom over 17 years ago , probably the first of the large-scale telecom privatisations in europe - i very much welcome this essential further action to deregulate and open up the market .
we want to see the new entrepreneurs , the new internet companies coming into the market .
can i start by congratulating mr clegg on the speed and quality of his work and also welcoming him to this rather exclusive band of members who so often are here late at night debating telecommunications issues .
indeed commissioner liikanen 's predecessor , commissioner bangemann described us once as ' we few , we happy few , we band of brothers ' .
parliament must be ready to look at new ways of working , imaginative and , as mr harbour says , adventurous .
others have mentioned the lisbon summit and it is of course right to stress that this legislation follows a commitment from the european union member states to support the growth and use of the internet in europe under the e-europe action plan .
much of this would not happen without this promise to provide affordable , high-speed internet access and we note the importance of unbundling in the success of the e-europe plan .
it is also true that the combined efforts of the commission , parliament and the council have brought about this legislation as part of an overall effort to modernise telecommunications law .
madam president , unbundling access to the local loop is intended to open up the level of competition , providing lower prices for the customer and easier , cheaper access to the internet , fostering technological innovation in the local access area .
but as the rapporteur mentioned , many of us have been made aware of the concerns of the local telecommunications provider .
the irish telecommunications provider , eirecom , maintains that it should be allowed a reasonable time period to implement the changes and that the 31 december deadline is practically unachievable .
also , charging for unbundled access to the local loop should be fair and adequate to ensure the long-term development and upgrading of the local access infrastructure .
when we combine this possible scenario with other measures that adversely affect rural areas , such as the liberalisation of the postal service , which threatens the survival of small rural post offices , and the recent closure of many small rural banks , how will the possible reduction of investment in long-term development and upgrade of local access infrastructure affect already disadvantaged rural regions ?
commissioner , madam president , ladies and gentlemen , behind the somewhat barbaric name of the proposal for a regulation which we are debating this evening , unbundling access to the local loop , an expression moreover which is totally impenetrable for the average citizen , there lies a simple yet serious decision regarding the liberalisation of the local network of voice telephony and data transmission services .
as we have heard this evening , for some in this house , the closing of the final chapter of a public monopoly can only lead to an automatic reduction in the costs of local communications and this can therefore only be positive for consumers .
for others , including me , this is far from being quite so obvious and , above all , quite so automatic .
if unregulated competition always leads to a permanent reduction in prices , and always benefits each and every consumer everywhere , this would have happened long ago .
our rapporteur and colleague , mr nicholas clegg , has certainly done a lot of work , and i congratulate him on that .
but he is very liberal and so he has naturally rejected anything that could lead to a genuine universal service .
mr clegg has correctly and very seriously set forth the commission 's proposal on unbundling from a technical standpoint .
but i am sorry to say that , as i see it , he has not adequately responded to the longer term risk posed for the weaker and the more susceptible players in a deregulated system , and to the risk posed by private monopolies .
it must be , and it can be , an objective in itself and , for us europeans , a value and an asset for balanced and sustainable development .
the environment and telecommunications will in future play a very special role in international competitiveness .
this directive in particular demonstrates that we have been very thorough in aiming for fairness , and this has been a model of how to legislate , with a review , with a proper and thorough examination , with all stakeholders being consulted , and , lastly , a good , efficient , swift and precise procedure in the european parliament .
i do not normally take a position in this house which is based purely on national considerations but it seems to me that we are attempting to put in place a regulation which is inflexible and does not take into account the position of the market in ireland .
the proposal that we have will oblige eirecom , a private limited company , a former state monopoly , to open up its local loop to alternative providers and will not oblige alternative providers already in the market place such as cable tv , satellite and wireless local loop operators to do the same .
cable tv companies in ireland already possess the network and are already gearing up their network to provide telephony , internet and other interactive services .
the regulation on unbundled access to local loop is by its very nature inherently flawed .
when we increase competition in the networks it will cut prices , improve quality and make the services more affordable .
it will help to create an inclusive information society .
if parliament were to accept tomorrow the clegg report we would show that we can .
we will have concrete proof , which would increase enormously the credibility of the european union , especially in the eyes of the younger generation which lives in this age of the internet .
none of this would not be possible without excellent cooperation between the institutions .
it really is a key part of the e-europe action plan to liberalise the telecommunications market to make the prices cheap and the quality of service higher .
insofar as the implementation of this regulation is concerned , yesterday the national regulators had a meeting with commission officials .
the commission can also welcome practically everything in the report .
the report is supportive of the objectives and draft measures included in the commission proposal .
first , the aim is to mandate operators not defined as having significant market power in the provision of fixed telephony networks to provide unbundled access to the metallic local loop from 31 december 2000 under transparent , non-discriminatory and cost-oriented conditions .
the commission accepts in full all 18 amendments to the clegg report .
they improve the commission 's proposal , providing for more accurate technical definitions and more specific requirements of the national players and national regulatory authorities .
these amendments are constructive and will ensure that the regulation is fully operational .
thus they guarantee that unbundling is rapidly and effectively implemented from 31 december 2000 .
the commission also hopes that the council will approve the text as amended in the report and hopefully accepted by parliament tomorrow .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.40 p.m. )
we shall pursue that action tirelessly . ( applause ) madam president , my intervention refers to the situation in the ivory coast .
the reply is clear .
last-minute negotiations have been held with all the groups and , in my capacity as rapporteur , i should like to table a number of technical corrections on five points .
here the groups have agreed to place 50 % against the budget line and to leave 50 % in the reserve , and not to put the total amount in the reserve as previously decided .
the same applies to line b3-306 for the prince information campaign .
these are lines b7-5211 and b7-547 .
the vote concerns an amendment tabled by the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party to increase the tobacco subsidy by eur 5 million .
before the vote on amendment no 929 madam president , mr maat may wish to make the same comment as me .
the honourable members can all read , mr heaton-harris .
i congratulate all our rapporteurs .
madam president , my name appears as a signatory to various amendments on this report .
the current common agricultural policy is not only expensive for the union , but also contributes to higher consumer prices .
in the matter of the external measures in category 4 , we have chosen to vote according to a line which does not require revision of the financial perspective .
no one in the european parliament would support discrimination or violence against women ; we must remember that to deny women a voice is a form of violence against them .
haug report ( a5-0300 / 2000 ) i voted against the haug report , just as i voted in favour of my group ' s motion to reject the general budget for 2001 .
thirdly : because the budget remains a mechanism for applying a policy which falls short on the social and development side and which has not been reorganised despite constant warnings of the fall in the euro . - ( sv ) as swedish and danish social democrats , we have today voted in favour of parliament ' s proposal on the eu budget for the budget year 2001 .
we are firmly resolved to find the funds required in order to be able to provide increased aid for reconstruction and democratisation in the balkans , including in serbia , now .
consequently , we call upon the council to react positively to parliament ' s initiative for a common and long-term solution before the final decision on the budget is taken in december .
the eu ' s agricultural policy is far too expensive .
we refer in particular to the new pilot scheme to finance information measures in the fight against paedophilia .
the budget for 2001 still comprises obscure items that shower funds on a host of associations and cultural centres , the actual need for which is still to be fully proven .
ferber report ( a5-0292 / 2000 ) - ( sv ) where travel expense refunds for members of the european parliament are concerned , we maintain our view that refunds must be made only for actual costs incurred for travel on official business .
the public funds that are being spent by the eu can be better used in the member states .
ruhle report ( a5-0251 / 2000 ) we have naturally voted against the budget for the ecsc , which until the ecsc treaty expires will continue to rain down subsidies on shareholders in the iron and steel industry .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the ecsc treaty will soon expire .
as the report states , unbundled access to the local loop allows new entrants to compete with notified operators in offering high bit-rate data transmission services for continuous internet access and for multimedia applications based on digital subscriber line technology as well as voice telephony services , using local network infrastructures that have already been installed by other operators , generally public service operators .
many have already anticipated this directive , like france telecom .
the regulation of the sector by the law of maximum return will result in the creation of profitable and less profitable areas in the territory covered .
if 20 or more competitors are allowed to hang around in the roughly 50 exchanges belonging to the former incumbent in my small country , then we can bid farewell to confidential telephone calls and security in these exchanges .
this persecution hits the produce of small and medium-sized farmers in the south particularly hard .
the growing dutch glasshouse horticulture , which yields a large volume of vegetables , fruit and flowers in a small space , is in a much stronger position than cereal or dairy farms .
the present report puts forward amendments on a range of points that address the interests of european production in general and of portuguese production in particular .
i abstained because i feel that in this case , as mr bushill-matthews and the english members have said , there has been a lack of subsidiarity .
johan van hecke report ( a5-0296 / 2000 ) madam president , it is very important for the european union to concern itself with the inhabitants of acp - african , caribbean and pacific - states .
personally , as the representative of the pensioners party , i am concerned at the situation of the elderly in these countries .
moreira da silva report ( a5-0270 / 2000 ) the problem of global warming caused by concentrations of gases in the atmosphere which exacerbate the greenhouse effect , such as carbon dioxide , is taking on explosive proportions .
we fail to understand how it is possible to create an entire market which trades in pollution as a commodity and on which , instead of reducing their own co2 emissions , some companies buy in surplus coverage from other companies which are within their limits .
despite this , the governments of the richest countries with the highest emission levels of fossil combustion products have failed to bring about a drastic reduction in these emission levels .
the member states themselves will need to drastically reduce their emission of co2 and other greenhouse gases by focusing on renewable energy , public transport and reducing traffic levels .
moreira da silva report ( a5-0271 / 2000 ) we are in favour of any tax or levy on the big industrial companies that are largely responsible for pollution in general , and atmospheric pollution in particular .
i am very keen to present my explanation of vote on this report , an explanation of what was in fact a vote in favour , because i would like to ask you , madam president , in much the same way as i am asking myself , whether we are entirely sure that the climate changes that we are seeing have been caused by man , by industrialisation and by the emission of substances into the atmosphere .
accepting the establishment of a market in carbon dioxide emissions at international level amounts to letting western countries duck their responsibilities by purchasing fictitious russian emission rights or financing projects in southern countries that are completely inconsistent with their development needs , without any means of checking actual reductions in emissions .
this money should be spent by bringing into line and coordinating expenditure on research policy in all the 15 member states of the european union .
in modern society , with all its consumer goods , such as appliances , we need materials and substances with very specific characteristics .
in my report , i have listed systems such as iban , swift , step 1 and ipi .
as i have stated in my report , this automation and standardisation process should be in place three months before the introduction of notes and coins .
the banks alone cannot reduce the total cost of transfers more or less to the level of the cost price for domestic payments .
they need the help of the member states .
after all , banks have so far been obliged by the member states to notify their central banks of any cross-border payments over eur 12 500 , for the benefit of balance of payment reporting statistics .
moreover , volume and number of retail payments only form a small percentage of the total number of credit transfers .
i hope that this report will encourage banks sufficiently to continue on their path of innovation towards better functioning , cross-border credit transfers .
madam president , since the borders between the member states of the european union were opened , an increasing number of firms have been taking advantage of the opportunities offered by this common market .
when the markets between the member states of the european union were opened up , our ambition as members of the european parliament was never to create access for large companies , which they had of course had for a long time already ; it was always to open up this large european market to small and medium-sized businesses .
what we wish to see is not just one single transfer system - which would once again be a monopoly - but competition between different transfer systems set up by different banks and groups of banks , competition which will at long last work in favour of the public and in favour of small and medium-sized businesses .
the monthly cheque to a daughter or son in another eu country , the cross-border transfers for books or services , hotels or trips are being subjected to additional charges , despite the fact that the logistics of cross-border trade are supposed to be less complex and less expensive .
in the european parliament in our work in committee , we also very much regretted the fact that the offer made by the european central bank was not accepted .
the european central bank could help by creating a single european data format for credit transfers and by supporting moves to create a uniform european bank sort code within the international iban system .
they therefore play a part in restricting freedom of movement in the internal market .
i believe that this report is of central importance if we are truly to succeed in integrating the public and small and medium-sized businesses into the euro area and for increasing public acceptance of economic and monetary union .
living in the monetary union also means counting on a reliable cross-border credit transfer system - this is the battle cry for the remaining 432 days .
madam president , i would like to concur with the rapporteur and her excellent report .
it is crucial for consumers to accept the euro .
the idea that transfers in two participating euro area countries will no longer be considered as an international transaction incurring international costs but as a national transfer , will need to become universally accepted .
the high bank charges involved in the completion of the internal market constitute a barrier .
in the free movement of capital involving the single currency , there should not be any restrictions or huge discrepancies .
it is a fact that banks throughout the euro area took a reserved stance before the implementation of the directive on cross-border retail payments .
this is not some fiendish ploy by the bankers , just a technical reality temporarily resisting resolution , but bound to evolve in the right direction in time .
in every case , it is really microscopic .
i have just explained why these two problems are not linked , at least not apparently .
of course , in the strict sense that is true , but the naive reader , the non-specialist , thought that all the costs of cross-border payments would disappear , when in fact foreign exchange commissions only represented a small part of those costs , just a small percentage .
this is excellent work on the part of the commission .
although we in the european parliament now criticise the banks we have to understand that cross-border payments account for only a six-percent slice of all payment transactions , so development of this area is an expensive investment in the eyes of the banks in relation to the benefits gained , from the point of view of the banks at least .
what we can do is compel or put pressure on the european central bank to invite banks to attend immediately a meeting of a working party on standardisation at which decisions could be taken regarding the technical circumstances under which costs could be reduced .
this promised benefit has not materialised ; and indeed , as the commission candidly admitted when this report was discussed in committee , no improvement is expected in the situation after the introduction of notes and coins .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i too should like to thank our colleague , mrs peijs , very much for her report and for being so persistent in her efforts to achieve results for the public .
on 1 january 2002 , the euro will also become a reality for the public , because then we will have the euro in our pockets .
today the average fee for transferring eur 100 to another country in the internal market is eur 17.10 , many times more than the fees for domestic transfers .
in the future , the euro area will also feel like a domestic area and the public do not understand why in this area , in which there are no exchange-related risks and in which electronic payments with internet banking are increasingly becoming a matter of course , transferring money from munich to salzburg is considerably more expensive than transferring money from munich to kiel .
i welcome the fact that the commission is maintaining its pressure on the banks and that it may increase the pressure further with the action it is taking against 120 banks .
the european central bank should also exert increased pressure .
the proposal by mrs peijs and myself also seeks to bring the banks together around one table , not to lay down the law , but because we simply cannot increase the pressure any further from the political side .
after all , on that fateful day , 1 january 2002 , all citizens of the euro area will have the same coins and notes in their purses and wallets .
this is why it is crucial that well before 1 january 2002 , a whole host of measures are taken , so that these are in place when the new coins and notes are introduced .
the commission will take a very close look at all the proposals made in the report .
the commission has sent declarations of objection to banks in six member states .
we will be exchanging ideas on this topic during the large round-table conference to be held on 9 november next in brussels .
in the summer of 2001 , the commission will also be presenting a report on the improvement of cross-border credit transfers .
even now , transfers take place within three days in 85 % of the cases .
we cannot , on the other hand , endorse the report by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , because this committee is asking us to take a legislative initiative to bring the costs of cross-border payments in line with those for domestic payments .
we can , of course , agree on the principle of this proposal , but not on the proposed working method .
the commission and european central bank are in constant , and often difficult , dialogue with the banking world to achieve tangible results , and your support in this is much appreciated .
the debate is closed .
the time when the defence of business , especially small and medium-sized business , was like a corporatist battle is long gone , not just because there is only a handful of diehards left who see the world of business through the distorting prism of the class struggle , but above all because , at the start of this third millennium , everyone knows that the issues of employment and social cohesion are crucial for our societies , and business has a pre-eminent role in those issues .
in fact , it is well to bear in mind that , at both the economic and the social level , business leads .
besides undeniably constituting the basis on which we must construct a policy on business which genuinely serves business , the charter has the great merit not just of limiting our action to small businesses , but of making them the central point in our thinking , our priority unit of reference .
that would send out the strong and clear signal the business world needs .
ladies and gentlemen , thank you in advance for supporting my report .
thank you on behalf of all enterprises , but also on behalf of our societies .
it really has been fun .
however , what is particularly important in this sector is that we promote a spirit of enterprise in society and that young people give more serious consideration to starting their own business or to going into smaller companies .
in this context the de minimis rule should , in any case , be re-examined and the group exemption regulation for smes should be revised .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , after eleven years in this house , i can bear witness to the fact that debates on small and medium-sized businesses in our parliament are neither new nor rare .
i have also asked that actions geared to specific groups like women , young people and the social economy sectors be encouraged , not forgetting employee participation in the life of these smes in general .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i would first and foremost like to express a word of thanks to the rapporteur who has indeed compiled her report with great care .
this care is more than needed if we want to establish ' enterprise europe ' by 2005 and if we want to make the european union into the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-driven economy in the world .
the amendment to the report in the committee , partly tabled at my proposal , emphasised that the multiannual programme must be used as an instrument to promote economic growth , full employment and social cohesion .
first , every business must be included .
so it is important to make sure our action here is positive .
we need operations in the field , regional delegations the commission , parliament or the council can control , as the majo report recognised just recently .
i really hope the commission will set up a working group on this topic , involving interested members of parliament .
but stoa is not really that kind of organisation and we have specific proposals to make on the subject .
mrs montfort , our group will give your report its wholesale support .
mr president , commissioner , small and medium-sized businesses , both in the manufacturing and in the service sectors , can only survive on the market if they have full order books .
your report is excellent .
mr president , this multiannual programme provides a european framework for the development of the innovative potential and the competitiveness of industry in the member states .
the rapporteur has listed a number of key points in a bid to strengthen the european entrepreneurial climate .
the question does , however , arise as to how the multiannual programme can help enterprises strengthen their competitiveness in specific terms .
you will see that the programme has been allocated around eur 230 million ; if you divide that by the 16 million small and medium-sized businesses in the european union the result is eur 3 per company per year .
my contact there is magister leitner , and if i come across a problem related to support programmes or a problem with the european institutions , then i can tell my employers that there is someone there who is competent and in the know , someone who can give information in the shortest possible time about public calls for tender , support programmes or research on infrastructure .
this is excellent for europe because help can be given quickly and competently in the form of technically correct information .
for small companies , the three or six months which they have to wait for a piece of information to be forthcoming or for a programme to start is an endlessly long time .
above all , when a one-man company or a company with fewer than 250 employees has a project , it should not need to provide 120 % loan guarantees in the form of land to receive financing ; it should also be possible for it to be funded on the basis of a good idea .
that is why associations such as normapme are very important , because this is another place where a small business can seek know-how quickly and efficiently , because tenders relating to this may be on the internet and because , quite simply , this is helpful for its everyday work .
the report does not breathe a word about that , because it would mean admitting that all the talk about small businesses is just a popularity-seeking justification for granting aid to big business .
i am the absentee boss of a very small enterprise , our family business in london .
i will not say what it does , that might constitute an advertisement , but it was founded by my father , francis chichester , and i am very proud of it .
i am reminded of what the commissioner said to us a year ago about the experience in the united states , where they are not afraid of failure and they believe in the old scottish proverb of " if at first you don 't succeed , try , try again . "
the nursery for small and medium-sized businesses contains several thousand experiments which feed large enterprises with manpower and ideas .
in many of the member states , people who set up their own businesses , rather than being viewed as having created at least one job - their own - are sometimes held to be delinquents , profiteers , thieves or tax evaders .
the more we get people from small and medium-sized businesses across parliament 's threshold talking to us about issues , the better we shall be able to do our job .
the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship will constitute a major instrument in support of european businesses .
it is primarily geared to small and medium-sized businesses .
that is why we should ' think small first ' .
we need advice from the business world and other interest groups in all our efforts .
the multiannual programme will be committed to improving the modus operandi of small and medium-sized businesses .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 6 p.m .
there is an urgent need , following the recent attacks on the greek minority in himara , to promote democratisation measures and measures to strengthen institutions and respect for human rights in albania .
another problem is the integration , using specific means , of albanians legally resident in the member states .
at the same time , we need coordinated action , with the maximum cooperation of europol , in order to put an end to trafficking and prostitution rings dealing in women and children and the actions of criminal gangs involved in trafficking in human beings , whom they then exploit through illicit employment and prostitution .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i really must express my surprise that the commission has allowed a high-level council working group to do the work that it should , in fact , have done after amsterdam .
a considerable number of albanians are leaving their homeland because of the instability in their country , because of the social difficulties and because of the pre-modern structures of society and family .
i should like to say just one thing , mrs karamanou : if albania is not a safe country of origin and we treat albanian refugees differently from others , then neither can albania claim that it wants to enter into a stability and association agreement with us .
albania is a significant country of transit and origin for immigration into the european union .
firstly , the positive forces in albania need to be supported ; secondly , legal instruments need to be created for immigration from this region , which restrict or stop illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings , as well as the diverse forms of crime associated with them such as illicit employment and prostitution .
anyone who knows anything about albania knows that it is somewhat undiplomatic to name the players in public life there , as much can happen in dealings between countries in the throes of change and an industrialised world that has cast itself in the role of aid donor .
i would particularly like to highlight the predicament of women and children in albania .
the people are , of course , hopeful of better political representation but at present , many people still live in fear ; fear of all kinds of things , fear of the outbursts of violence which flare up now and again .
new life must be injected into the economy and a sound ecological policy must be put in place .
persecutors must be punished .
mrs karamanou , congratulations on the extensive , wide-angled approach in your report .
the situation was exacerbated when action by political forces lavishly supported by the european union resulted in the pyramid scandal in 1997 and robbed the people of their savings and , at the same time , shattered any confidence in the structures and organisation of the albanian state .
the whole situation was made worse by events in kosovo and the nato bombings , which exacerbated the problems in the region .
the first concerns structures and procedures in albania and is even more important following recent events and incidents during the municipal elections , incidents directed mainly at the greek minority living in albania .
mr president , i welcome the fact that an action plan has been drawn up for albania and i also welcome my colleague 's - mrs karamanou 's - committed report .
on the basis of her analysis of the political and economic situation in albania , it is possible for us to reach a better understanding of the causes of the migratory movements and to develop corresponding measures .
the toughest possible action needs to be taken against trafficking in human beings - in particular in small children - and the exploitation of people for illicit work and prostitution .
the main area of focus must not be how the flood of immigrants and refugees may be brought under control , but how conditions in the region can be improved so that people can stay in their homes .
the situation of the kosovo albanians has long been very difficult , and it is a great relief that , at last , their rights are being recognised .
the eu cards programme is of the utmost importance in this situation , as , without a system of administration that functions properly , nothing works .
mr president , when about two months ago i proposed that paragraph 6 of the report should include a reference to the need to improve the security and protection of ethnic minorities and the rapporteur , whom i should like to take this opportunity to congratulate on her work , accepted my proposal , i was of course thinking of the generally poor record of this country in its dealings with minorities on its territory , especially the greek minority .
in all albania 's neighbouring countries - apart from kosovo , where the albanians are in a majority - we have albanian minorities , and we can demonstrate here what the eu 's standards on minorities are .
but the problem is that we have fought for this very point , and neither in this house nor in the european union have we achieved a majority in favour of a system of burden-sharing based on quotas .
since 1991 , albania has been granted a total of 750 million euros in multi-sectoral aid within the framework of the phare programme .
in the last two years the country has been granted an additional 250 million euros in humanitarian aid under the echo programme .
the general affairs council adopted the first five action plans last october , and they concern somalia , sri lanka , afghanistan , morocco , and iraq .
the european council at tampere urged the council and the commission to report on the progress of the working group ' s work in december this year .
the report will discuss the action programme for albania and its neighbouring regions in detail .
the commission is playing an active part in compiling the report .
i wish to raise three points for consideration , which the commission regards as particularly important .
we also want to thank the member states for their input with regard to this work .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 6 p.m .
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market explicitly calls on the commission to resist the legislative pressure to which it has itself objected .
we are helped here by the principle of subsidiarity which , in the view of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , should also be applied when deciding whether to make a particular matter the subject of internal market legislation .
we ask the commission here quite specifically to observe the clear demarcation of responsibilities both between the eu and the member states and within the institutions .
i would ask you to help us to send out this signal , and to vote in favour of this report of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
nevertheless , my group tabled a large number of amendments both in committee and in the plenary , and the fact that it did so is no reflection on the quality of the report , but because we are , after all - particularly on the issue of the scope of the principle of subsidiarity - of a different political opinion .
firstly because , in view of the forthcoming enlargement , we are in especial need of a strong european union if we want to help the future new member states and their peoples , and also if we want to overcome the many crucial tests facing us in our member states .
this is particularly true of the principle of subsidiarity , but it also applies to the quality of legislation .
instead of having abstract arguments about general principles , we should consider the necessity of individual projects more often in this house and we should also invest more time and resources in legislative quality .
all too often , however , we are forced to conclude that this european legislation is packaged in a language which is too technical , too legal and too complex , so much so that this european legislation becomes unusable , as a result of which the intended goal , namely to make legislation in the european union transparent and unambiguous , is not achieved .
i was delighted to note that amendments nos 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 , which i tabled myself , have been approved by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
but here two different traditions of thought come together .
for 2000 years or more people have been safely drinking the water from the burns ( the little rivers ) , and now they are prohibited from doing so .
it is , however , also true that there are some public goods that can be pursued only at the most general level and there are , indeed , aspects of environment protection , aspects of species protection , for example , aspects also of single market law , aspects of law against protectionism , aspects of law to govern the internet , which can only be approached at a level at least as general as the european level .
the principle of subsidiarity , properly understood , points us in both directions : take decisions at the lowest level possible , but acknowledge that the lowest level possible may be indeed a very high level , when general goods are at stake that will be lost unless protected on the same terms everywhere .
it is a constitutional principle and , like all constitutional principles , it has on the one side a political impact when we , the legislator , decide what law to make ; but it has , on the other hand , a legal impact when it comes to the question of how the courts should interpret and apply the law .
for 290 years , however , scots law , which remained a distinct body of law mid-way between the civil law of continental europe and the common law of england and the americas , retained a distinct system but was legislated only from westminster .
but it is important to bear in mind the interests of subsidiarity at levels below the member states , as well as between the member states and the union , and there is no reason at all why the constitutional principle that is at stake cannot be interpreted widely and generously at all levels of this great union .
mr president , i think we should be very pleased with the quality of this report .
in conclusion , i would say that while i find certain amendments very constructive , i wonder about the logic of certain others which seem to ignore the reality and importance of a principle enshrined in the treaties .
let us take , shall we say , six clear examples and look at how they have been transposed in detail , how they operate within the countries , how they are being enforced and make a really clear and transparent assessment of the effectiveness of the legislation , because if legislation is not effective , then we have all wasted our time .
the second paragraph of article 5 of the treaty establishing the european economic community is utterly unintelligible .
the poor commission has made a very commendable effort with the documents ' better lawmaking 1998 ' and ' better lawmaking 1999 ' , in which it tries to be tolerant with this nonsense approved by the governments in the treaty on european union and the added protocol .
the report by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market did not gain much enthusiasm from its members .
the proof is that , of the 17 members on the committee , 8 voted in favour and 9 abstained .
the subsidiarity concept as put forward in the report by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market is a concept which has been exalted to heavenly heights , and therefore as a theological principle it lies beyond the scope of the community .
we have submitted 12 amendments to the report by the committee on legal affairs .
we also support amendment no 13 by the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party .
i drew up an opinion within the committee on economic and monetary affairs which in principle was linked to this report , but it ended up referring to a different report on the slim project .
as regards the rest , mr president , the report deals with other issues that are not on the same level .
codification and simplification are important and laudable issues , but only a matter of good legal technique .
i would therefore ask the commission to provide us next year with a report on the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity with all its consequences , and another report on the implementation of good administrative and legislative techniques .
mr president , thank you for allowing me , as rapporteur for this report , to make one additional comment on amendment no 8 which was tabled by the group of the party of european socialists .
i also agree with the report and views expressed in the discussion here that enlargement will present a major challenge vis-a-vis the quality of legislation , owing to the economic , social and legal problems which the new member states will bring with them .
actually , this screening of the existing acquis communautaire is often a very useful exercise in showing that it is not always necessary to legislate at community level or whether a law is too detailed for legislation at the community level .
i will take a very personal position by saying that there can be new types of governance here , where regulation and self-regulation can be complementary and not alternatives .
there are also other areas of the internal market regulations which are very complicated .
