the commission can also accept amendment no 4 in principle .
the comprehensive approach that the commission intends to adopt on this issue will be brought forward as soon as possible under article 152 where parliament will have a codecision function .
we have accepted this but have proposed further approximations of the legal effect measures that affect this directive , in particular the adoption of a text - which has been approved by the commission overall - for the use and labelling of genetically modified organisms .
as a political force , we serve to guarantee that austria will continue to embrace european values .
we are honoured by the visit of this delegation which is taking place shortly before the entry into force on 1 march 2000 of the association agreement between morocco and the european union .
on this historic occasion we welcome these developments in our relations and the prospects for closer ties between our two parliaments .
it is in this spirit that the delegation for relations with the maghreb countries will be visiting morocco on 20 to 22 march .
in particular , the commission can accept in full amendments nos 6 , 16 , 21 , 28 , 31 , 33 , 34 , 44 , 45 , 46 , 48 , 52 , 53 , 65 , 67 , 68 , 75 , 76 , 78 , 80 , 84 , 85 , 88 and 102 .
the commission can accept in part amendments nos 8 , 18 , 27 , 29 , 42 , 43 , 47 , 54 , 60 , 62 , 93 , 94 , 104 and 105 .
the commission can accept in principle amendments nos 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 10 , 12 , 14 , 17 , 20 , 22 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 30 , 32 , 35 , 36 , 37 , 38 , 50 , 55 , 56 , 57 , 58 , 63 , 69 , 73 , 79 , 86 , 89 , 96 , 99 , 106 and 108 .
but the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1 , 4 , 9 , 11 , 13 , 15 , 19 , 23 , 39 , 40 , 41 , 49 , 51 , 59 , 61 , 64 , 66 , 70 , 71 , 72 , 74 , 77 , 83 , 87 , 90 , 91 , 92 , 95 , 97 , 98 , 81 ( rev. ) , 100 , 101 , 103 and 107 .
that concludes the vote explanations of vote- lienemann report ( a5-0014 / 2000 ) . ( fr ) i welcome the quality and the ambition of this report on life .
i shall briefly remind you that life is a financial instrument used to support environmental policies within the european union and also in third countries , whether they be neighbouring countries around the mediterranean , countries around the baltic sea or applicant countries .
in my opinion , the most important amendments concern the following : life ' s contribution to sustainable development within the community and also to the development of community policy in the field of the environment , particularly regarding the integration of the environment into other policies , as well as to the implementation and updating of legislation relating to the environment ; improving the efficiency , transparency and methodology of procedures for the implementation of life , procedures for information and the dissemination of such information to the public , and procedures for cooperation between recipients ; the objectives of life : this must have as its main objective sustainable urban development , in close association with the pilot projects carried out under the urban initiative , on which i have had the opportunity to speak elsewhere ; the contribution that the projects supported by life make to the sustainability of social and economic activities , and thus job creation .
i consider it crucial that the life instrument should remain open to the participation of candidate countries from central and eastern europe .
the stumbling block in the negotiations with the council lies , of course , in the amount of the total appropriation allocated for the third phase of the life programme ( 2000-2004 ) .
the commission proposal , ratified by the council , is for eur 613 million , whilst the committee on the environment , public health and consumer protection considers that the budget should be eur 850 million .
if the report is adopted in plenary session , then conciliation proceedings will have to be opened , in accordance with the codecision procedure , in order to solve the problem of the amount of appropriations earmarked for the programme .
this type of procedure is common practice since the programmes or legislative measures are too often allocated budgets which do not live up to their ambitions !
boge report ( a5-0023 / 2000 ) . ( fr ) as an mep and , more importantly , as a consumer , i welcome the european commission ' s proposal as a step in the direction of enhanced food safety within the european union .
this proposal has two objectives : first , to amend the 1991 council directive on animal health conditions by removing the provisions on scrapie and , secondly , to introduce a new regulation establishing rules for preventing and combating transmissible spongiform encephalopathies ( tse ) or bse-type diseases affecting sheep and other animal species .
what is interesting abut this new legislation is that a specific legal basis is being created in order to combat scrapie .
even if this proposal for a european parliament and council regulation to prevent and combat certain tse needs to be made more accurate and more effective , especially as regards detecting and fighting scrapie , it is still a notable improvement .
the european parliament has relayed their concerns and they have been heard .
as a result of the debates on the principle of precaution , traceability , responsibility and transparency , the european commission has presented a white paper on food safety .
in addition , there is a clear tendency , in matters of international jurisdiction , more and more often to obtain a pure eu jurisdiction .
graefe zu baringdorf ( a5-0015 / 2000 ) . ( pt ) food safety issues are in the spotlight following the bse and dioxin scandals .
in view of the montreal protocol on genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , i welcome the fact that the rapporteur has included these issues in his report , and i have therefore voted in favour of it .
stenzel report ( a5-0034 / 2000 ) mr president , i would very briefly like to give an explanation of vote , on behalf of the ppe group on the equal report .
it is regrettable that , due to the procedure , the report has received such unfavourable attention in this plenary session .
i am convinced that the rapporteur ' s nationality has played a certain role , which should not be of relevance in this parliament .
basically , we are opposed to programmes and structural funds of this type but , since the vote is only concerned with how - and not to what extent - these resources are to be used , we have simply adopted a position on the issue .
equal stands for " equality " .
the employment and social affairs committee adopted several of the amendments i put forward , concerning for example , the emphasis on access to start-up capital , how to exploit new business opportunities in cities , towns and rural areas and the criticism that under the previous initiatives there was inadequate participation by business .
there is a risk that the so-called aid measures provided for in the report will spread insidiously and with disastrous results : asylum seekers , of course , plus asylum seekers under temporary protection while their applications are being processed and asylum seekers whose applications have been rejected and who are threatened with expulsion should all , according to the report , be able to benefit from this set of measures , whereas their very status - after all , what is an asylum seeker who has been refused refugee status and who is threatened with expulsion if not an illegal immigrant - should , at least for the last category , exclude them from a policy to integrate them into a community which does not acknowledge their presence in its midst as legal or legitimate .
whether we like it or not , a signal of this sort would be a fearful invitation to immigrants who , merely by applying for refugee status , irrespective of whether or not it is granted , would be able to qualify for a range of aid measures designed to help them integrate permanently into the labour market , in a general climate of shortage , in which the legal population , both foreign and indigenous , is cruelly aware of the problem of unemployment .
consequently , despite its general approach , which cannot but be endorsed , i am unable to support a report which contains in it the seed of a new attack on the concepts of citizenship and republican legitimacy which i hold so dear .
lieneman report ( a5-0027 / 2000 ) mr president , some of us in parliament will remember the successful film , " cocoon , " in which some elderly people drank a special kind of water that made them young again .
in my view , it is , therefore , immensely important to exercise extreme vigilance over the water we all drink and , consequently , to study and approve the provisions referred to here .
particularly important issues are the following : the new indexes for water should be compulsory ; provisions should be made for protecting groundwater from pollution ; provisions should be made for purifying contaminated groundwater ; there should be a ban on the discharge of some 400 hazardous substances into water ; substances which are not currently monitored ; a system for determining pollutants in water is urgently needed ; the cost of water supply services should include the environmental cost of producing it ; whereas , in general , the provision of water should be priced at cost , special exceptions should be made for areas affected by permanent and extensive drought , in relation to their social and economic circumstances ( for example , impoverished regions or social groups ) ; a shorter timescale is needed for implementing the directive .
in adopting the water directive on wednesday 15 february , the european parliament confirmed its wish to protect surface water , coastal wasters , inland waters and groundwater .
europe now has a framework which will allow it to prevent any deterioration in the quality of water , promote its sustainable use , protect eco-systems , help fight floods and droughts and eliminate the disposal of dangerous substances .
the objective of this proposal for a directive , which dates back to 1997 , is to put an end to the fragmentation of previous water legislation and protect surface water , coastal waters , inland waters and groundwater .
a technical working party made up of council and parliament representatives met in january 1999 to try and reconcile the positions of the two institutions .
the council hopes to achieve good quality groundwater within 16 years , but the commission wants no further deterioration in the chemical status of groundwater so that good quality groundwater can be achieved in 10 years .
all the standards and all the objectives relating to protected zones should be achieved within 10 years , not 16 .
i likewise expect the european commission to make a clear declaration undertaking to submit a proposal to ensure that water pricing policies reflect the environmental costs and the costs in terms of resources by 2012 .
we have all agreed on the need to put in place proper controls for the protection of our water supplies and also for the users of water .
it is minimalist on a number of points , especially with regard to the dates of entry into force of far too many provisions and the number of , and conditions for , implementing the derogations .
however , the main problem is with the definition of the objective which the european union wishes to pursue with this text .
the objective is of course to create , first and foremost , a clear general framework which will allow the law in this area to be simplified .
from this point of view , the common position is weak .
i should like to see our parliament defend a more ambitious position than the council ' s position , but i should also like that position to be equally credible .
on the contrary , i object to this systematically applied strategy .
it damages parliament .
we all agree that ensuring water quality is a hugely important objective , above all , given the adverse effects of developing a model of accelerated industrial growth on the natural environment .
we have voted against amendments nos 25 and 72 which would require the achievement of minimal anthroprogenic pollution in all groundwater .
the framework directive on water policy will become the cornerstone of community policy in this area .
the legal obligation to achieve a zero input situation , i.e .
such provisions may well cause serious problems in cross-border areas and in candidate countries , thereby complicating enlargement .
it is also true , as it states in the explanatory statement , that harmonisation could be damaging as " it might place greater demands on weaker member states at the same time as competitive considerations might exert pressure on more socially developed countries to cut back on social security .
the starting point for the commission ' s communication is the implementation of emu which , with its demand for stability and growth , creates the basis for the member states ' being able to maintain their social security arrangements .
the report states that modernisation does not mean a reduction in the level of social protection but , rather , better use of available resources .
we also notice that , according to the explanatory statement , modernisation does not mean harmonisation of social security arrangements , either , and that harmonisation might be downright damaging as it might place greater demands on weaker member states at the same time that competitive considerations might exert pressure on others to cut back .
the policies of the european union also have much to answer for in this situation .
social protection should be based on the principle of national and community preferences .
we also believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions are to be taken as close as possible to those they affect .
numerous policies have already gone in this direction , albeit laboriously , and many more still need to do so before europe , in terms of subsidiarity , is seen as one house , not only by its own people , but also by those in the candidate countries .
the second concerns the management of welfare systems and those who operate them .
today , a common strategy for social protection is sadly lacking , and the current systems are , in the main , run according to the actions and unity of purpose of individual member states .
therefore , any modernisation process has to take account of economic , employment and social protection differences between the various countries , whether member states or candidate countries .
inhabitants of countries in the european union ought , nonetheless , to be able to benefit from a minimum network of social protection , irrespective of which country they live in .
we are therefore voting against paragraph 7 of the report .
the report emphasises the social dimension of european cooperation , which is something to be welcomed .
it is nonetheless important to clarify what role the eu is to play , and not to play , with regard to social security .
clarification of this kind is missing from the report , which is unfortunate . . ( el ) on reading the commission ' s statement on social protection , which is animated by so many good intentions , one wonders whether its authors and the working people in europe are living on the same continent and in the same social reality .
when social security has repeatedly , and in the words of many influential people , been characterised as a ' cost ' and an ' obstacle ' to greater competitiveness and when ways are being sought to transfer that cost from companies to working people - always , of course , on the pretext that this will create jobs - it would surprise us if the existing model of market economy without accountability , with its dismal monetary-economic approach to everything and total dependence on monopolistic interests , were to take under its protection the fundamental right of the citizens to social protection and care .
on the basis of these views , we wish to express our categorical opposition to the ' modernisation ' of the social protection system that the commission statement is promoting , and to make it clear that we cannot vote in favour of the report by the committee on employment and social affairs which is under discussion .
i think it is worth reminding you that the inclusion of this item on the agenda clearly reflects the need , which has been expressed by all the political groups , for parliament to hold a debate before the next meeting of the united nations commission on human rights in geneva , so that it may express its opinion on such a sensitive issue , one which is so dear to this house .
following the statement of the presidency-in-office of the council and the commission , i believe we can all agree that the current situation with regard to human rights is far removed from what we would all like to see .
at a european union level we must recognise that the situation is not completely satisfactory , since , for example , although the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is a common instrument in all member states , not all subsequent protocols have been ratified or signed by all of them .
another clear drawback in this area is the fact that the european union itself is not a signatory to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms , with all the additional disadvantages that this situation entails .
i hope that these problems can be tackled and dealt with in the context of the current discussion of the european union charter on fundamental rights .
mr president , in a world such as this , which is increasingly dominated by the phenomenon of globalisation , and not only in the economic field , our responses , in order to be effective , must be concerted and coordinated .
this parliament therefore advocates the principle that we need to participate in the commission on human rights and other international fora which deal with these issues and , mr president-in-office of the council , this parliament would like to be able to participate in this type of meeting as soon as possible .
soon , in may , the european commission intends to present a communication on the development of the role of human rights and democratisation in the union ' s external relations .
i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commission to take good note of this need for coordination , which i have just mentioned , and to seek new formulas which will strengthen the role played by the european union in the field of human rights and , in particular , by this parliament , especially from the point of view of coherence , recognising the good will of those third countries which accept the inclusion of the democratic clause .
lastly , i must recognise the important contributions made by civil society in this area , as well as the often underestimated role of the numerous non-governmental organisations who act on the ground .
i refer to the rome conference and the fact that 14 of the 15 member states of the union have still not ratified the treaty establishing an international criminal court .
we have often employed instruments which , at the formal level , make us feel comfortable , but which , in terms of practical results , are totally ineffectual .
all those aspects should be part of a rationale , a discourse and a contribution which the european union should bring to human rights .
two weeks ago , i received a letter from the chinese embassy in brussels .
nor are freedom of expression , freedom of assembly and freedom of organisation .
in recent weeks , china has done all it can to restrict access to the internet and to prevent citizens from communicating with , and receiving information from , other countries via the internet and e-mail .
it is nothing less than hypocritical to condemn the flagrant violation of human rights that occurs in non-eu countries if we are not prepared to extend a helping hand to those genuine refugees and asylum-seekers , whose position is now becoming more difficult in the eu .
mr president , commissioner , mr president-in-office of the council , in my view , the question which needs to be raised in geneva this year is certainly not the death penalty .
mr president , i would like to try to put a different perspective to this .
they see us killing each other .
the un convention on human rights 50 years ago was an attempt to correct this .
this question does not challenge the efforts made by the member states who wish to bring their viewpoints on foreign policy into line and to display a united front against violations of human rights elsewhere , for example in china .
no , mr president , i am talking about the lack of human rights policy within the european union itself .
a start is now being made on the drafting of such a charter , but we can no longer put off the question of legal status and the strategic significance of this document or pass it on to learned professional jurists .
the following spring to mind in this respect : the systematic collation of documentation and information , professional forms of observation , the development of information campaigns , the use of cash to support democratic forces in the country concerned , a more creative deployment of the resources which are available through multilateral diplomacy , such as organised dialogue and fact finding missions and such like .
but i am somewhat surprised that the resolution which should bring this debate on human rights to a conclusion has been prepared in the foreign sector of this parliament and that the aforementioned committee , of which i form part , has not been involved in this .
mr president , this parliament is fragmented and divided .
leaders violating these principles now face international criticism , sanctions and are even brought to trial , such as ex-dictators like mr pinochet have experienced .
the human rights policy is also too selective .
i would like to warn against a blurring of standards in the assessment of human rights situations in africa , where violations are viewed as a necessary evil .
the international community is sending conflicting messages to this country .
words framed in inclusive and liberating documents become treaties and conventions which are often paraded as a testimony to a country 's respect for and adherence to human rights .
the defamation of minorities in newspapers and other media fuels discrimination .
even within the eu citizens still suffer human rights violations and a breach of our conventions .
in our enlargement process in the eu we have rightly placed the emphasis on human rights and the protection of minorities .
together , we must re-establish the values which unite europe .
i wish to discuss two matters .
we must never forget to defend civil society .
however , it is imperative that the eu speaks and acts as one , and threats of trade sanctions should strengthen rather than weaken our resolve .
the financial resources of the united nations are spread very thinly and because of this many crucial programmes are dependent on voluntary contributions to keep them afloat .
we are also pleased that the situation in timor is slowly moving in the right direction .
numerous mps have been killed or have fled the country and only a few are left in burma .
mr president , mr president-in-office , commissioner , economic clout cannot be the only factor that determines the european union ' s status in the world .
the european parliament has been at the forefront of the battle to promote and defend human rights , and it has succeeded in overcoming the limits imposed by self-interest and " national interests " , which are sometimes reflected in the positions adopted by the member states and even by other european union institutions .
it is vital that when violations are committed , the perpetrators should not be able to act with impunity , whoever or wherever they may be - in indonesia or angola , in cuba , china or burma , whether the perpetrators are civilians or soldiers , humble foot-soldier or general or even a minister .
president wahid needs our support to cope with the difficult situation he is faced with .
i would also like to say that the european parliament ' s participation in the preparatory work is important in establishing coherent european union positions on various different issues , and that the presidency therefore naturally welcomes all the various suggestions and in particular all the contributions made through the resolutions which have been presented .
i would also like to stress , as many members have highlighted , that human rights policy is at the heart of europe ' s identity and that respect for human rights should be seen as a fundamental principle for international cooperation by the european union .
but we have also duly noted the concerns expressed by many other members about other countries , notably indonesia , east timor , the moluccas and burma .
one or two speeches have referred to specific issues which we are well advised to think about very carefully .
mr cashman said , which is right in a sense , that words are no substitute for real action .
there is also the question of our overall policy on human rights and the relationship between human rights and foreign policy .
i want to remind parliament that the commission will be publishing , before the middle of the year , a comprehensive , intellectual case for placing human rights at the heart of the development of the common foreign and security policy .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of the presidency of the council of the european union , i would like to present to you certain information about the re-opening of the intra-cyprus negotiations and recent developments in this area .
i think it will be obvious to everyone that the events in helsinki at the end of last year and the new era in relations between the european union and turkey have created a new backdrop , at community level , which we cannot ignore when it comes to relations between the two cypriot communities .
at the beginning of december 1999 , the first round of negotiations were held in new york , after an interruption of several years in negotiations between the cypriot communities in the north and south of the island .
it is essential for us to send the commission a message of confidence about its role in this area .
as i said at the beginning , the conclusions of the helsinki european council last december have had a visible impact on the way the positions of the various parties to this process have developed .
the nicosia government has expressed its satisfaction with the helsinki conclusions , which open up the way to accession to the european union without solving the partition of the island beforehand .
as far as we , the council presidency , are concerned , we will continue to follow these developments very closely , and we will certainly cooperate with the secretary-general and his personal representative on this matter .
firstly , i would like to say a few words on the financial regulation for cyprus and malta , which the commission put forward in october last year .
we need these instruments so as to be able to meet our financial commitments under the terms of the development strategy for malta and cyprus .
the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on budgets have put forward a series of proposed amendments .
the commission will propose a package of eur 95 million .
the council has also agreed on this figure .
the second important issue in this respect relates to the transfer of the financial means under line 7 of the budget .
in the case of cyprus , the draft regulation also provides for the financing of measures intended to support reconciliation between the two ethnic groups , and in fact this accounts for a third of the total amount .
now just a few brief comments on how the cyprus question has developed since the european council in helsinki .
the european council in helsinki reiterated that resolving the political conflict would facilitate the accession of cyprus to the european union .
the helsinki european council ' s decision on how relations between the european union and turkey are to be framed in future has given the situation considerable impetus .
i would emphasise that several political processes are running in tandem here and they are closely linked .
it also concerns the further development of relations between greece and turkey , and the peace process in cyprus .
the first thing we are able , and want , to do is to step up dialogue and communication between the two communities on cyprus .
for our part , we have made funds available for this purpose in the new financial regulation .
i believe it is very important for us to call upon both sides to at last break free from the shadows of the past and gradually develop a new form of cooperation and , ultimately , a new way of living together .
the talks held under the auspices of the united nations took place in new york in december and in geneva at the beginning of february .
i am sure that no one in this house doubts that it would be extraordinarily helpful in the process , if it were to prove possible to find a solution to the cyprus question , and it is also clear that the european union must play its part here .
on the other hand , we must also make it clear , of course , that there are other options , so as to avoid the possibility of creating something awkward that will ultimately land us in difficulties of the kind that will have us running into obstacles and remove our power to act in the overall enlargement process .
therefore permit me very briefly to raise those points that parliament deems important .
i believe it is important that the european parliament has made a positive contribution for this year nonetheless , because we do not want these countries to be disadvantaged in any way , and that is why we were prepared to make the necessary decisions for budget 2000 , but this can really only apply to this year .
i fully understand that problems of a mathematical nature may arise on account of agenda 2000 and the funding that might be at our disposal .
i would also like to state quite clearly that we could perhaps even discuss the figure of 130 million that was mentioned in my report .
parliament has also tabled an amendment for tomorrow based on a different amount , particularly as these countries are at a relatively advanced stage of development , as i said .
however , these countries must be able to feel secure for the foreseeable future ; they must know what is actually in store for them , and this must also be reflected in the european parliament ' s planning ability , as part of the budgetary authority .
mr president-in-office of the council , i know that you are still full of good intentions regarding cooperation with the european parliament .
that government has proposed a way in which the turkish cypriot side can take part , and i think it would be right for the council and the commission to urge the turkish cypriot side to take part institutionally in the framework of the negotiations conducted by the republic of cyprus .
this is a small political decision which would bring major benefits , especially in helping the two communities effectively to constitute one state , to achieve effective rapprochement - because the two communities were once close - and for the republic of cyprus , genuinely , to be rid of occupying forces .
mr president , we are required under the advisory procedure to debate a proposal for a council regulation on the implementation of operations within the framework of the pre-accession strategy for cyprus and malta .
this proposal is similar to the proposal submitted for other candidate countries and , once it is implemented , will replace the financial protocols which have now expired .
pre-accession instruments are designed to provide technical and financial support for efforts by candidate countries to meet the demands of the community acquis .
as far as cyprus is concerned , part of the technical and financial aid provided for in the instruments will be used to bring the greek and turkish communities closer together and solve the problem of the partition of the island once and for all .
since 4 july 1990 , when cyprus applied to join the eu , the european parliament has passed numerous resolutions calling for a political solution in accordance with international law and the relevant resolutions of the security council of the united nations .
in april 1999 , parliament again reiterated its position that the accession of cyprus should benefit the whole island , and help towards a political solution , but that accession should not be dependent upon such a solution .
in other words , accession should not be held hostage to a political solution .
we must therefore welcome the fact that the helsinki european council put an end to the speculation and stated in its conclusions , and i quote , that " if no settlement has been reached by the completion of accession negotiations , the council ' s decision on accession will be made without the above being a precondition " .
on the contrary , it will allow the interests of all concerned to be highlighted as and when cyprus joins the european union and prepares for a turning point in its history .
the main point is that the money for cyprus ' s and malta ' s pre-accession aid should come from category seven and that there should be a review of the financial perspectives for , if the council does not endorse this view , it is in reality acting in conflict with its own decisions in helsinki in december .
with regard to the amount which is quoted in the brok report ( eur 130 million ) , i also want to say , on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party , that we must negotiate our way towards finding a sum of money .
mr president , the group of the greens / european free alliance support the decision adopted by the european council in helsinki according to which the resolution of the conflict cannot be a prior condition for the accession of cyprus to the european union .
the conflict in cyprus will only be resolved through improved relations between the two communities with a view to establishing a federation in the - we hope - not too distant future .
the european union should be taking a more decisive role that goes further than merely providing financial support , although that is important , by promoting and guaranteeing reconciliation between the two communities through the setting up of fora and confidence-building programmes .
thirdly , we must not , in turn , allow the position taken by the helsinki european council to temper our efforts to resolve the cypriot question before cyprus joins the union .
mr president , there is a general consensus of opinion that financial aid to cyprus and malta is important .
the council and commission have suggested deleting the protocols under category 4 .
this is in line with the budget order issued by parliament in december last .
the rapporteur is now making reference to this and proposes classing cyprus and malta under category 7 .
the committee on budgetary control has even suggested postponing approval of the brok report until the council agrees to increase the financial ceilings for category 7 .
i would therefore advocate that the eur 15 million in category 4 be dropped , in line with the commission ' s proposal .
we all know that special care is needed to ensure that cyprus is brought successfully into the european union , and the decisions taken at helsinki give an added dimension to this debate , with the acceptance of turkey as a candidate country .
i hope that the decisions taken at helsinki lead to progress on the cyprus issue .
i hope this signals a new era of hope for cyprus .
i hope that turkey begins to play a constructive role in the cyprus issue .
i am delighted to hear the words of support from the council and the commission for the un and the work it is doing in encouraging proximity talks between the two communities to encourage reconciliation and the rebuilding of trust between the two communities in cyprus .
i welcome the renewed warmth in relations between the greek government and the turkish government .
we all , throughout the european institutions - in parliament , the council and the commission - should be doing our best to aid cyprus in its quest to reach a peaceful solution which brings together these two communities which have been divided for too many years .
for we all know that it is unacceptable that this island has been divided since 1974 and that approximately 38 % of cyprus has been occupied by turkey for more than 26 years .
but as you yourself made clear , we have just entered the year 2000 and may find that we are facing a new situation , possibly with new opportunities .
at the same time , it was decided that the accession of cyprus to the union would not be made conditional on the resolution of the cyprus question , which , as mr poos said , was actually already the clear position of the union and also parliament , and this was confirmed in various resolutions .
therefore , helsinki has left turkey in no doubt whatsoever as to the fact that it has no right of veto regarding the accession of cyprus , and that the further deepening of its relations with the european union are closely bound up with the resolution of the cyprus question .
i think we can assume that , where cyprus is concerned , the eu accession process is irreversible .
cyprus expects to have to spend around eur 850 million - which corresponds to almost 12 % of their own gnp - on adaptation activities between 1999 and 2002 .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner verheugen , the regulation on accession aid is not exactly an advertisement for coherent work on the part of the commission .
both the commission and the council have been making very optimistic speeches here today as well .
mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , the view of the greek communist party is that the main problem of cyprus is not its accession to the european union but the occupation of 40 % of its territory by turkey , which has continued for 26 years .
the only acceptable solution that guarantees the future , that leaves no room for foreign interventions , like those that led to all the problems of the last fifty years , is a unified and federal cyprus in accordance with the resolutions of the un ' s security council .
for its part , the european union , with its hypocritical professions of interest in freedom and human rights , has never been moved by the drama of the cypriot people , by the problem of greek and turkish cypriot refugees , by the enforced change of the population composition in the north of cyprus , or by the wholesale settlement of colonists by turkey in the occupied areas .
even in this chamber , the council ' s representative referred to the north of cyprus and not to the occupied territories .
the recent helsinki decision to grant turkey accession country status , even though it has made not the slightest concession over the issue of its occupation of cyprus , for example , by reducing its military presence there or giving back ammokhostos , is clearly encouraging turkey ' s intransigence .
it is not by chance that , immediately after helsinki , the turkish prime minister , bulent ecevit , stated that the cyprus issue had been resolved in 1974 .
on their course towards accession , the people of cyprus have already lost a great deal , but stand to lose even more .
mr president , malta and cyprus are very different from the countries of mainland europe .
the maltese in particular have been very good at surviving in hostile geographical and geopolitical environments .
their success has relied in great part on their enterprise , their dynamism and their flexibility .
the situation is more akin to a black hole in space , sucking in masses so powerfully that not even light escapes .
the eu should leave cyprus and malta alone .
mr president , this is one of the few occasions when , from what the speakers have said in this parliament , from all sides of the house , there is clearly the greatest convergence of views on the cyprus issue and , of course , on the pre-accession process for cyprus and malta .
at the same time , however , it means that both the council and the commission have a very strong mandate , so that the strength of opinion expressed by all the european parties , and all the peoples , can empower their political ability to address the problem .
to this end , the brok report is a good instrument and it is really a bit distressing that , because this is a joint debate , it is politically overshadowed by the political position of the council and the commission and we cannot therefore say more about this good report .
now , as regards the brok report , cyprus and malta are the last of the mediterranean islands , and , unless i am mistaken , the last islands anywhere in europe which have not acceded to the european union .
granted , it is an issue concerning two communities , but it is not mainlyan issue concerning two communities .
moreover , it was this situation and this interpretation which led the council to take the decision it took in luxembourg at the end of 1997 , when it decided to take the first steps in the accession process for the republic of cyprus to join the european union .
i hope that honourable members will realise that , regardless of the more or less emotional statements made about issues of this kind , the day-to-day reality of international negotiations normally forces governments to adopt a somewhat more flexible stance - and when i say governments i mean all governments .
regardless of who is to blame - and we are not here to apportion blame , the relevant united nations resolutions in this area are clear enough - i believe that we should take advantage of the opportunities that the new situation is opening up , in more of a rational way and less of an emotional one .
the european council in helsinki had the courage to take certain decisions , and i believe that various aspects of these decisions have already recognised the real value of these opportunities which , as i said at the beginning of my first speech , represent a window of opportunity .
the european union ' s position on this is crystal clear , and i do not think it is worthwhile second-guessing particular phrases in the council ' s conclusions or in any other statement .
we do not play at political correctness in this house : we are concerned with fairness at international level and with concrete statements on this issue consistently defined by the council over a period of time , and which the european commission has also followed carefully , attentively and pragmatically .
so when we talk now about the need to involve the northern cyprus community in exchanges of information , particularly with a view to the eventual accession of the republic of cyprus to the european union , we need to be aware that we are trying to find practical formulas that will enable us to overcome the obstacles standing in the way of a political solution .
we believe that helsinki was very clear in this respect .
the authorities of the republic of cyprus itself have clearly recognised that our relations with them regarding their accession to the european union have been positive .
there is no point in second-guessing or trying to second-guess our intentions .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to thank you all very much indeed for this debate , which all in all i have found to be encouraging and supportive , and it has also shown that there is a great deal of support in this house for the policy of the member states and that of the commission .
malta , cyprus and turkey were not provided for at this stage .
mrs schroedter described this as a lack of coherence .
she ought perhaps to take some time to ask the erstwhile president-in-office of the council , who is not exactly a stranger to you , how this presumed lack of coherence has come about .
nevertheless , i have said that i understand the arguments that people have been putting forward here and the commission will endeavour to take account of these aspirations , but since this is all about agenda 2000 and the financial perspective , we will not be able to do this without amending this financial perspective .
by way of clarification : if we transfer it across from heading 4 to heading 7 then this will have no effect on the overall balance of the budget .
if we do this , then heading 7 would be increased accordingly but heading 4 would be decreased by the same amount .
as for the peace process in cyprus and how it is linked with the accession negotiations , i would reiterate that there has always been a direct connection between the two .
the commission and the council have long endeavoured to encourage the two communities in cyprus to undertake joint projects .
mrs rothe , i would put it this way : i am convinced that there has been a distinct improvement in the framework conditions for reaching agreements of this kind .
after only a few weeks , mrs rothe , it is still too early to deliver a verdict on this , but in any case , i have no grounds for assuming that the new line will fail .
i met the turkish foreign minister in brussels a few weeks ago and naturally i asked if turkey could take a positive and constructive stance in relation to this issue .
the financial regulation is the legal framework we need to tackle the priorities established under the terms of the accession partnerships with malta and cyprus .
if the lamented lack of coherence should happen to have something to do with this point , then i am bound to say that this regulation is a legal framework and nothing more than that .
this legal framework is fleshed out in the priorities set by the accession partnerships that were adopted by the commission and the council last year and are now being implemented in the corresponding programmes and project management .
in any case , the question that this raises is an important one and the council will not fail to support the proposals that the commission has presented in this respect .
thank you very much commissioner verheugen .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0009 / 2000 ) .
the council was fully aware of issues of this kind and of the need to take additional measures in this field .
it emphasised the importance of the council taking new measures within a community framework and in the context of its own work with international organisations .
we are perfectly aware of the difficult and dramatic humanitarian situation in kosovo and of the problem of displaced people in that region - and i mean people who originate from kosovo - and of the particular effect of this on child health and on mortality rates .
i think it is well known that the european union has made a clear contribution to the humanitarian aid effort being made by the international community .
as you know , the european community has contributed a total of eur 378 million for the province of kosovo alone , and this has to be seen in conjunction with the contributions made by member states at national level .
i think that mrs karamanou is aware that , because of the need for division of labour between the international donors , the task of restoring health care in kosovo has been entrusted to the world health organisation .
mrs karamanou , i recognise the fact that all the efforts that have been made in kosovo in this field have not been enough .
i do not want to link this question with your comments about the period " before " and " after " nato ' s intervention , as we will probably touch on that issue at another point during this question time .
i would like to widen the debate and include the situation in mitrovica .
the situation in mitrovica is appalling , and involves very special tensions , and i believe that the measures taken over the last few hours to create safe conditions in that area are to be welcomed .
the council has already , on various occasions , stated its conviction that the severe measures taken by nato were both necessary and justified to deal with extremist and irresponsible actions involving clear violations of the united nations security council resolutions .
in my own country , the various parliamentary groups had differing views on this matter .
in any case , the council ' s position is clear in that it considers that the objective of the air campaign carried out by the north atlantic treaty organisation in the federal republic of yugoslavia was to put an end to the humanitarian disaster in kosovo caused by the belgrade regime .
this objective was fully and formally expressed in the statement adopted by the general affairs council in luxembourg on 8 april .
i must say that these nato measures were not taken lightly and were only carried out as a last resort when it became evident that all avenues for reaching a negotiated solution had been exhausted and that the belgrade authorities were concentrating their forces in order to expel the kosovo albanians from their land .
mr marset campos , you will be aware , first of all , of how difficult it is to select targets during a military operation , particularly an air-based one , and you will also be aware that there is a category of targets that , whilst they are not military targets as such , are infrastructure targets selected with a view to hindering the smooth running of the military machine .
unfortunately , and as everyone recognised during the military action in kosovo , there were civilian sectors , and in particular infrastructural sectors directly affecting the general public , and even inhabited areas , which were directly affected by nato air attacks .
this is generally recognised and this happens in all wars , and the kosovo war was not a clean war , nor a model war , but a war based on the art of the possible .
mr marset campos , regardless of how we may see things with hindsight - and it is easy to see things with the benefit of hindsight , if you take no action yourself - i believe that , if we look at what happened in bosnia and herzegovina , and at the impunity that the situation in bosnia and herzegovina led to , and the continuation of that impunity , then we might perhaps see the nato military action in kosovo in a somewhat less catastrophic light .
question no 4 by ( h-0028 / 00 ) : subject : turkish blockade of armenia given that the european union is actively promoting social , economic and political relations with armenia through the partnership and cooperation agreement , signed on 12 october 1999 , what steps is the council taking to persuade the turkish government to lift the economic blockade of armenia ?
nevertheless , as regards the relationship that interests us - the relationship between the european union and armenia - the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement in july 1999 and the first meeting that we held in october last year show how seriously the european union takes its relations with armenia .
the european union has been endeavouring to facilitate this process and we are of course also aware that turkey must adopt a constructive attitude towards this matter and play a major role in it .
in december 1999 , as we all know , turkey was accepted as a candidate for membership of the european union .
political dialogue with turkey will be stepped up in view of this new situation .
we provide partnership funding and there are cooperation agreements in place , in order to help armenia , and still the aid cannot come into play because turkey has imposed an economic blockade , and so many things cannot get through to the armenians at all .
we feel that precisely because turkey has embarked on a new type of relationship with the european union , and also because turkey now has to respond to the european union ' s positions on common foreign and security policy issues , we will , to be frank , be testing turkey ' s will as regards the european union ' s priorities in its foreign relations .
our relationship with armenia , as evinced by the agreement we signed with that country last year , is of course one element in these foreign relations .
we also feel that , if turkey wishes to move towards sharing the fundamental values of the european union and the general framework of the european union ' s relations , regardless of whatever special bilateral conditions may apply to its own relations with any other country , it must in general act in accordance with the basic standards demonstrated by the european union in its foreign relations .
we are , moreover , convinced that this issue will be one of the priorities of the bilateral relations between the european union and turkey in the near future .
as they deal with the same subject , questions nos 5 and 6 will be taken together .
as i have already said in response to another question , the latest outbreak of hostilities in mitrovica is just another example of the difficulty of overcoming the distrust which has built up over decades .
therefore , in response to the current situation , the council has resolutely supported the establishment of the united nations mission in kosovo , unmik , has contributed to its budget and has taken responsibility for the so-called " fourth unmik pillar " , which is concerned with economic reconstruction and rehabilitation .
in these circumstances , i think that unmik , together with the other international bodies and organisations involved , must have made some progress in relation to some of the objectives stated in resolution 1244 , although we are still a long way from a situation which is at all satisfactory .
the european union has appealed to the serbs in kosovo to reconsider their boycott of this structure so that they can contribute to a multi-ethnic region and assure themselves a place in the new administrative structures .
although we have already made a substantial contribution , we must recognise that , until now , as i have already said , the eu member states have not been able to detach officers to this police force , which has proven to be a very damaging factor for the operation of a public security structure .
as i have said , in accordance with the conclusions of the general affairs council of 24 january , the member states are doing their utmost to find additional police personnel , and the most recent general affairs council reiterated this position .
we feel that a large part of the solution to the kosovo problem - and there cannot be very much doubt about this - also relates to the problem of stabilising the countries involved .
these are signs of the european union ' s goodwill towards the situation in serbia .
we shall make appropriate gestures towards serbia , in terms of providing services , of lifting sanctions , when serbia ' s behaviour , both on the international stage and in its relations with its neighbouring countries , and its behaviour within its own borders , is in tune with what we consider to be the fundamental principles governing the international community and the behaviour of " decent " countries on the world stage .
should nato not at the very least acknowledge fault for its deliberate targeting of the belgrade tv tower and killing over 20 civilian journalists , which remains a severe moral blemish on the conduct of the war and now opens the embarrassment of a possible indictment for war crimes against our western leaders ?
in any event , i , on behalf of the council , do not wish to make a value judgement about any specific military action carried out by nato .
mr president-in-office of the council , since i know the history of the balkans , i should like to remind you that , for many decades , the peoples of yugoslavia lived in peace .
what i said and what i explained in a previous answer is that there are civilian targets linked with structures which are objects for military action , and you know as well as i do that some military actions not only go for military targets , but also for civilian targets and structures which are connected with military action .
as i said , we are not making value judgements about specific actions .
as you know , the charter stems from a decision of the cologne european council .
today , we are perhaps already thinking along different lines , or at least some of us are .
there have only been two meetings of the preparatory group for the charter of fundamental rights ; this group is now called the convention for the eu charter of fundamental rights .
i would like to say , as a member of the portuguese delegation , that we regard economic and social rights as a vital part of the european union ' s heritage , and understand that they must be part of any european union charter and of any corpus of european union values .
as i said , mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou , we are not in control of the procedure for drawing up the charter of fundamental rights .
you know that there is a parliamentary delegation chaired by mr mendez de vigo and a committee on constitutional affairs where these issues can be debated at great length .
i therefore ask that both questions and answers be very brief .
i am sure that the president-in-office of the council is prepared to answer everything , but i must ensure that this sitting consists of questions and answers .
mr rubig , as president-in-office , i cannot give you an answer for the simple reason that the statement by the portuguese prime minister on behalf of the fourteen heads of state and government of the member states of the european union was adopted bilaterally and not by him in his capacity as president-in-office of the council of the european union .
i do not wish to dwell on this subject on behalf of the council presidency , because my government intervened at the request of , and in conjunction with , fourteen member states and not in its presidency capacity .
the agreement on guidelines for export credit which enjoy official support have been in force within the oecd since 1978 .
the objective of these guidelines is precisely to see that officially backed export credits are used properly , that is in a transparent and disciplined way .
as you know , most oecd countries are already party to this agreement and the european community as such , and not the member states individually , is also party to this agreement , in accordance with article 133 , formerly article 113 of the treaty on european union .
with regard to the g8 , and in accordance with paragraph 32 of the cologne summit statement of june 1999 , it is stated that we will work with the oecd towards common environmental guidelines for institutions that promote export .
we aim to conclude this work by the time the g8 summit is held in 2001 .
as you know , the member states of the european union are playing a central role in this process and in this discussion .
furthermore , it was in this context that a representative of the united kingdom stated in 1999 that he envisaged guaranteeing that export credit insurance would take second place to safeguarding the type of issue that you mentioned in your question , mrs lucas .
it goes without saying that the involvement of the member states ' governments and official export credit agencies in the ilisu dam project has been in compliance with european union , oecd and g8 political and legal requirements and commitments , in the case of the g8 by those countries belonging to that group .
i ask this because of the issue of coherence , the subject of this morning ' s discussion .
i would like to say that the council will only be able to respond to that part of your question in writing , at a later date .
question no 9 by ( h-0044 / 00 ) : subject : environmental problems caused by the drogheda port company development project , and the role of the court of auditors a major conflict between environmental conservation and structural development interests has arisen in the area of the boyne estuary , ireland , following a development project of the drogheda port company .
i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the budget of the european union is approved by common agreement between the council and this parliament .
for years the council has been blocking the strategic development impact assessment of plans and programmes .
it is extremely important .
question no 10 by ( h-0053 / 00 ) : subject : statute for members of the european parliament the council and parliament are going to try to reach agreement on a statute for the members of the european parliament .
will the portuguese presidency clarify its position on this matter ? . ( pt ) the portuguese presidency is particularly interested in this issue , as i suppose that this is the first time a presidency has made resolving the problem of a statute for members of the european parliament a priority in its programme .
the portuguese presidency made reaching an agreement on this statute one of its priorities , as furthermore , did the president of the european parliament , when she stated this at the helsinki european council .
we are therefore in perfect and total agreement in our concern to achieve a positive outcome on this matter .
it is worth pointing out once more that this compromise will require the unanimous support of the council , in accordance with article 190 , and the assent of this parliament , to which it falls to approve this statute .
i myself had an opportunity to meet this group , for the first time , in parallel with the january part-session , and i am trying to arrange to do so again soon in order to continue these discussions .
these discussions have also recommenced more intensively in the relevant bodies of the council , and i think that i can say , in a spirit of openness and greater flexibility , and because we all recognise the importance that this has , particularly for the general public , that drawing up this statute is a vital factor in ensuring both the dignity of the functions of members of the european parliament and the necessary transparency and good management of public funds .
my basic view is that one ought to pay tax in the country in which one lives , in which one ' s family lives and in which one benefits from public services .
this sensitivity is reflected in the way in which the presidency of the council of the european union expresses itself in a specific context in relation to particular situations .
i am therefore perfectly aware of this problem .
i do not want to enter into this type of discussion because i think that it might , to use a french expression , prejuger the portuguese presidency ' s views in the course of the negotiations in which it is involved on the statute for members .
since the time allotted to questions to the council has elapsed , questions nos 11 to 35 will be replied to in writing .
you addressed plenary in strasbourg nearly six years ago , in march 1994 , and many of us , who were already european members of parliament at that time , still have a vivid recollection of your speech .
in fact , shortly after the maastricht treaty was ratified , you spoke in favour of strengthening european values , creating a european ethical dimension and opening the union to the countries of central and eastern europe .
in other words , for many citizens , and not just in your country , you personify the european values to which we constantly voice our attachment .
there have been extremely dynamic developments in relations between the union and the czech republic following two european elections and a major new reform of the european treaties .
the end of this artificial separation of europe marked the start of a new era .
you founded and signed charter 77 , the human rights movement which represented and called for fundamental values during a dark period in the history of your people .
a communist regime sentenced you to five years in prison for defending human freedom and dignity .
but you never lost hope and history proved you right .
ten years ago , the " velvet revolution " proclaimed havel na hrad .
the european union , for its part , will need to adapt its institutions and policies in order to prepare for enlargement .
our responsibility as members of the european parliament is to ensure that the process of enlargement takes place in an climate of optimum openness and transparency so that , when the time comes , the citizens of the european union and the citizens of the czech republic will approve the accession of the czech republic to the european union through their elected representatives .
there does not appear to be a great tradition of considered europeanism in europe .
moreover , if europe has thought so little about its own identity in the past , that is no doubt because it considered itself , wrongly , to be the entire world ; or at least it considered itself to be better than the rest of the world , because it did not feel the need to define itself in relation to others .
thinking about europeanism means asking what set of values , ideals or principles puts you in mind of the notion of europe , even what is typical of europe .
and , hence , quickly realising that numerous european traditions , values or principles are typically highly ambiguous and may lead to ruin if exaggerated , exploited or abused .
if the european union is shortly to open its doors to new democracies and , in my view , it is in its vital interest to do so , it is extremely important , if not of capital importance , that it help to reconstruct and develop the civil society in these countries .
it knew full well that it would never gain real control of the people while the various grass-roots structures of the civil society continued to function .
what remained of a genuine civil society lived and developed in direct or indirect resistance .
and european values survived in this milieu not thanks to the political regime , but in spite of it .
and in a supranational entity as big as the european union , which needs to function as an instrument of solidarity , the real civil foundations must be even more stronger and even richer .
the viability of the european union therefore depends mainly , perhaps above all , on the spirit in which its citizens accept a civil european identity .
the attitude of governments should be informed by the attitude of its citizens .
the concern for security is another expression of social solidarity .
this is the job of the state or of a supranational grouping .
the european union has started working intensively on a new concept for its security policy .
first , respect for life and human dignity and the concern for european security may , under certain circumstances , call for intervention beyond the borders of the european union .
however , one can also imagine the unfortunate situation in which there is no un mandate and yet intervention is in the interest of the whole of europe and human civilisation as we know it .
secondly , more effort needs to be made in the area of preventive security .
in kosovo and serbia , as in bosnia-herzegovina and other parts of former yugoslavia , tens of thousands of human lives and countless property could have been saved if the international community had been capable of appropriate reaction earlier , when the conflict broke out . ( applause ) unfortunately , despite all the appeals , despite all the warnings of possible or imminent atrocity , nothing happened .
thirdly , the united states played the leading role in this particular instance and it is highly probable that , without their intervention , the international community , not knowing what to do , would today still be witnessing the atrocities which led to intervention in kosovo .
the idea of two europes living cheek by jowl , the idea of a democratic , stable , prosperous europe on the road to integration and a less democratic , less stable and less prosperous europe is , in my view , completely illusory .
as a single political entity , europe has an opportunity today which it has never had throughout its turbulent history ; the opportunity to construct a profoundly fair and peaceful order based on the principle of equality and cooperation by all sides .
no more acts of violence perpetrated by the powerful on the less powerful ; instead , understanding and general consensus , however difficult they are and however long they take to achieve , should be the guiding principle behind the structure and stability of europe in the next millennium .
allow me to mention two more specific points which i have alluded to on several occasions and which could , in my view , help to achieve these objectives in the more distant future .
the second would describe the main institutions of the european union , their main powers and the relations between them .
it seems to me that one possibility might be to create a second chamber in the european parliament .
this would mean that the commission , for example , would not need to have one member per state and the national parliaments could be involved in a much more " hands on " manner .
whatever the process or outcome of institutional reform or the reform which i mentioned , one thing would appear to be certain : disagreement or the absence of consensus on institutional issues should not hamper the enlargement of the european union .
however , this responsibility should never take the form of forcibly enforcing its own values , ideas or heritage on the rest of the world .
it can make savings , impose hardships , respect - in the best spiritual tradition - the higher cosmic order as something which is above and beyond us and respect the moral order as the consequence of that higher order .
i have taken note of your words ; this is something which we all feel very deeply .
we find you faithful to the principles which have always guided you , which have always guided your actions ; your attachment to fundamental values .
and you very opportunely highlighted the role of the civil society , the importance of the civil society , not just in the candidate countries , but in all the countries in the european union , in restoring our citizens ' confidence , in restoring confidence in the social solidarity which we need .
however , it is normal practice that the report on the work of the acp-eu joint assembly is put before members of this parliament and i have the pleasant task of doing that tonight .
the acp-eu joint assembly is a unique organisation in world politics .
the strasbourg assembly was the last chaired by lord plumb .
in honour of the tremendous work he carried out over a difficult period the joint bureau in nassau made him an honorary president , and we wish him well in his retirement .
the two assemblies have been dominated by the negotiations on renewal of the lome convention and i look forward to the signature of a new convention and its rapid ratification by all the countries concerned .
well , he was wrong , and i pay tribute to philip lowe and his team who have worked so successfully behind the scenes to conclude a new convention in very difficult circumstances .
i also thank the working groups on the small island states and climate change and the follow-up group on fisheries for their excellent reports .
we have had question times to the council and the commission and to the acp council , and i would like to thank those institutions for their interest in our work .
the resolution passed went so far as to say that poverty amounted to a violation of human rights .
we had , as usual , many debates on countries where there are war situations .
this highlights the problems of coherence between the eu and the developing nations , which came to a head at the wto talks in seattle .
in nassau , we had two interesting debates on east timor and cuba .
on east timor , mr da costa , from the timorese national resistance council , gave a very moving address indicating that east timor would also like to join the acp when it becomes a state with a government .
a number of cases have been highlighted , including the child soldier issue in sudan , where many children have been abducted from neighbouring states .
secondly , the new convention allows for regional assemblies in the six regions , which would allow us to be much more specific in our work .
we are going to have one in abuja in west africa too .
the joint assembly should play a leading role in monitoring the enactment of good governance , human rights and democracy in cooperation with the commission .
our approach to development policy must always be based on respect for human rights and the fight against poverty .
in future , the eu must take a far more multilateral approach when it agrees development projects and , furthermore , must coordinate more closely with the individual states in order to improve efficiency and use the funding more effectively .
at the same time the number of partner states has increased considerably , now standing at 71 .
fighting poverty and promoting sustained economic , cultural and social development are important objectives in the endeavour to build up democratic societies , based on respect for human rights , in the acp states .
one special aspect of multilateral cooperation with the acp states is regional cooperation and integration .
for the same reason the european parliament has always called for civil society to be involved in the decision-making processes and in cooperation management , and emphasised the importance of decentralised cooperation .
i hope it does not take another 25 years before we finally achieve that too .
mr president , i congratulate mr corrie on his report .
but of course the new convention must be measured not by the fact that it exists but by the extent to which it can contribute to the eu commitment to poverty eradication and the achievement of the international development targets .
during a marathon negotiating session in december a compromise was reached which provided that , in respect of least-developed , landlocked and island states , assistance would be provided in the event of a minimum 2 % loss of export earnings rather than the level of 10 % for the other acp states .
yet it is quite clear that even after a transitional period a number of countries will simply be unable to open their markets yet to the chill winds of free trade without wrecking their own domestic economy .
we need to ensure that strategies for promoting regional integration within the acp are pursued in their own right .
finally , during any new trade round the eu and the acp states should press jointly for a reform of gatt article 24 in order to explicitly provide regional non-reciprocal trade agreements between structurally and economically dissimilar groups of countries .
that reflects the growth of inequality between eu and acp countries .
the lome convention essentially benefits a few large industrial or financial conglomerates , which continue to pillage those countries and perpetuate their economic dependence , notably on the former colonial powers .
my next contribution to the debate is to turn my attention to globalisation and the wto , which is seen by the acp countries as an enormous danger to their development .
thirdly , the european parliament - through a joint working group within the joint assembly - must make a major effort to achieve stability in acp countries ' budgets through the selection of budgetary items to permit economic and , above all , social development , and by monitoring income and fiscal policies in force in the acp countries .
i shall restrict my speech to one particular act which took place a few days ago , partly as a consequence of events alluded to in the report we are debating here .
a cuban delegation attended the last meeting of the acp-eu joint assembly in nassau , and vice-chancellor dalmau spoke in the plenary session , engaging in a lively debate , and afterwards held conversations with many of us .
secondly , we must bear in mind that cuba ' s application has the support of all the acp countries .
nor can we ignore the value of such a decision in demonstrating the consistency and autonomy of the european union and the fact that it does not bow to pressure from any quarter .
by accepting cuba into the acp community we will be demonstrating that our europe is not involved in the shameful process of ' playing but not paying ' , and that , when we get indignant about absurdities like the helms-burton act , we are not being hypocritical but are ready to act and take all the consequences .
the acp-eu joint assembly meets again in a few weeks time and i am sure this subject will be dealt with there .
it must also be made clear that cuba is not going to be asked for more than has been asked of our other partners .
the eradication of poverty was central to our work and many speakers highlighted the need to preserve an essential tool for achieving that ambitious aim , to whit , preferential agreements between the european union and the acp countries within the framework of the lome conventions .
so we can only applaud the conclusion of a new partnership agreement for development , and personally i am convinced that the work of the last joint assembly did have a decisive influence on breaking the deadlock in the negotiations , as did the new climate created by the events at seattle .
by refusing to allow the idea of good governance to become a tool , in the hands of technocrats , for imposing new sets of conditions , the european union is demonstrating wisdom and modesty .
mr president , commissioner , firstly , i too would like to congratulate mr corrie on the accuracy and rigour of the summary in his report .
the european parliament ' s opinion on the activities of the acp-european union joint assembly has always had a major impact , undeniably contributing to a consistent policy and role for the european union in development and cooperation .
the important role of the increasingly parliamentary joint assembly in strengthening relations between the european union and the acp countries needs to be stressed .
poverty has been the common denominator of all the debates in the joint assembly and its eradication is the priority for the european union ' s development policy .
in line with the resolution at the nassau meeting , we must concentrate on meeting the poverty reduction targets agreed by the international community .
the next lome convention must specify the investment in education and stimulate regional cooperation and the participation of local bodies .
people in the poor countries are beginning to despair .
i call on the commission to act on the rapid accession of east timor to the lome convention as one means , amongst others , of promoting the eradication of poverty and accelerating its economic , cultural and social development , in order to strengthen its internal democratisation .
the commission is pleased to see the joint assembly playing a larger role , especially in connection with promoting a more extensive political dialogue with our partners in development .
in order to be able to develop , the countries concerned must , however , become actively involved in the global economic system .
with regard to trade with our partners in development , the commission is quite prepared to guarantee that any new arrangement will take account of the acp countries ' special economic and social limitations .
it operates too slowly , and it therefore stands to reason that the developing countries should have said yes to the new system of the future , because this will operate more flexibly .
regarding the future accession of countries such as east timor to the lome convention , i can only repeat what i recently said to the european parliament ' s committee on development and cooperation , namely , that the door is open .
with regard to cuba ' s application for accession to the lome convention , the commission notes that , according to their recent declaration , the acp states support cuba ' s application .
the eu has always called for a constructive attitude to be adopted towards cuba , as outlined in the eu ' s common position , but it has to be recognised that the discussions will be complex .
in this regard , i am simply pleased - delighted , in fact - here this evening , as a conclusion to this debate , to be able , very appropriately , to inform you that south africa ' s president has today said yes to the solution which the eu ' s council of foreign ministers last monday agreed unanimously to propose with regard to the outstanding problems regarding south africa .
i think this rather nicely puts the finishing touches to a debate which has , on the whole , been quite positive , and i would repeat my thanks to the rapporteur and to parliament for the cooperation which has gone into our relations with the third world on precisely the work in question .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
mr president , commissioner patten , today we are discussing a country that really has suffered hard times , a country that is , however , moving in a very promising direction , thanks to its own efforts and resolve and certainly also thanks to the support of the international community .
so if the european union , the council and the commission are proposing - and i assume that parliament will support that proposal tomorrow - the first stabilisation and association agreement in south-eastern europe , in the balkan region - i am quite happy to use that term - it is primarily in gratitude for or acknowledgement of the fact that fyrom itself has worked its way into a good position , in economic and , of course , mainly in political terms , in face of the war in the neighbouring region and also in relation to its own minority .
that country and its politicians - no doubt with some differences here and there - have always done very good work , and we should recognise that .
let me make a few comments on aspects on which views may differ somewhat , although , even in this regard , i want to strongly emphasise and acknowledge commissioner patten ' s activities and interest in relation to fyrom and the region as a whole .
the problem is that , when we look at fyrom , we can see how very difficult it is to cooperate economically with some neighbouring countries , such as kosovo and albania , or to cooperate politically with , for instance , yugoslavia .
tomorrow morning i will therefore table an amendment urging that we concentrate the sanctions on the regime itself while easing them somewhat for the people and for the economy in a spirit of economic cooperation .
fyrom wants to be told here and now that , in principle , accession will be possible when the time is right .
as you can see , our macedonian friends have always played a very positive role and it is for this reason that it should be pointed out at this stage that macedonia is not just a pawn in our so-called strive towards stability , but actually took the initiative .
despite the obvious reasons for any internal tension , both population groups have struck a reasonable modus vivendi and the outlook for reaching a sound solution to the remaining problems is good .
with regard to the problems afflicting macedonia , higher education for the albanian-speaking citizens deserves our special attention .
i am more than happy to include bulgaria and romania in this , as it seems to me a tactical and psychological error only to talk about the five countries of former yugoslavia , plus albania .
in the meantime , we constantly need to start from the premise in our policy that it is desirable for macedonian legislation to resemble that of the member states , and our policy should reflect this , even in the naming of aid programmes for macedonia .
mr president , the name of the republic is still a problem on account of the greek sensitivities surrounding it .
we do so in the awareness that this decision , the very first relating to that area , is actually set in the context of an entirely new phase of our relations with the balkans .
our agreement to the negotiations , as set out in the rapporteur ' s explanatory statement , is born of the conviction that it is right for union policy to combine both a regional dimension and a more precise assessment of efforts made and results achieved by individual countries in moving towards the acquis communautaire .
on the other hand , the price macedonia has been paying for the war in neighbouring kosovo is very high , both in terms of logistic availability of nato forces and in terms of reduced exports to northern europe .
very rapid and direct involvement of south-east europe in the life of the european institutions has also led us to suggest that a limited number of observers invited from the national parliaments should be accepted into the european parliament , and that staff from those countries could work in the court of justice and the commission .
this is certainly true for the relations between the european union and the western balkans .
the debate on the stability pact , the debate on the cara programme and the financing arrangements in the short term are all pending .
mr president , we did not need to witness the end the kosovo conflict to reach the conclusion that , after various wars in the territory of the former yugoslavia , with their untold negative effects on the stability of the balkans , a global and durable strategy for the whole region is needed , aimed at guaranteeing peace and stability in south-east europe .
this strategy , which took shape in the stability pact adopted on 10 june 1999 in cologne , considers south-east europe as a whole , but simultaneously recognises the diversity and unequal development of the various countries that compose the region .
the evidence is that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is politically and economically capable of establishing new contractual relations with the european union , going beyond the cooperation agreement in force since 1 june 1998 , which in practice targets respect for the acquis communautaire , especially in key areas of the internal market .
it is true that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia still has a long way to go , but , given the political and economic reforms already made in the context of the cooperation agreement , and with transitional periods accepted for certain domains , the country will be able to fulfil the conditions for a stabilisation and association agreement .
we share the view that its development is a factor for stability in the region , we approve the terms of the negotiating mandate as proposed , emphasising that what is involved is a bilateral agreement with the european union , and we agree with the rapporteur when he stresses that this is the first concrete application of an integrated long term strategy for south-east europe , and that the issue is how the balkans can be structured in the long term in order to guarantee peace and stability .
the various references made to regional cooperation with the neighbouring countries in fact become politically relevant in this context .
this agreement can and must become an example to the other countries in the region .
we are aware that some of them are already undergoing processes of democratic stabilisation , that others still need to affirm the democratic authority of their governments , and that equilibrium in others depends on the military presence in the zone , but they are all countries which now know that , once they have overcome their difficulties , a bridge is available to provide an effective link with the european union .
i think this report is a small masterpiece of hypocrisy .
we know there are 13 applicant countries , from lithuania to turkey , and just one black hole in europe , the balkans , but because these countries are denied the opportunity to become applicants , we want to make them believe that this agreement is a miracle .
paragraph 11 indicates that symbolic measures can replace the shared political outlook represented by applicant status .
mr president , commissioner , the balkans are not purely a dark cave , politically speaking .
in brief , the european union knows what to do in macedonia : to help this local port of refuge - recently used by scores of war refugees - to fulfil its role properly as a catalyst for the planned stability pact in the balkans .
i believe that the opening of these negotiations on the stability and association process is the logical conclusion of a salutary and positive trend in that country .
let me name just two small ones : the rapid resolution of the problem of the frontier crossing with kosovo in blace and the creation of corridor 8 , from albania via macedonia to bulgaria .
macedonia remains a potential minefield and has a history to match .
the new government would like to tackle this matter and the agreement could be an agenda for reforms , including a direct role and equality for the albanian minority .
more than anything , the country needs peace and quiet now , in order to put its internal house in order and to find the road to greater prosperity .
external stability also means open borders and regional cooperation .
macedonia ' s stability is very much linked with the developments in the neighbouring countries .
the union considers it untimely to reach a stability and association agreement with this country .
fertile soil for the growth of democracy in this war-ravaged part of europe is best provided through trade and economic integration .
it is therefore with great satisfaction that we welcome the proposal that is now being made for a stabilisation and association agreement with macedonia , and we thank mr swoboda for a very good report .
we should do exactly the same for the other countries in the balkans .
all this , in exchange for the promise of future accession to the european union .
the report accepts these attitudes along with the more general policy of the european union on south-eastern europe .
finally , because we consider that both the stability pact and the stabilisation and association process the european union is implementing in countries in that area , will create new problems there , new tribulations for their peoples , and will reinforce the dominant role of the american and european imperialists , we will be voting against the report in an expression of our solidarity with the people of fyrom .
mr president , commissioner , one of the most basic aims of the european union ' s stability and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is to establish stability and peace in the area , and this , of course , presupposes developing and maintaining good neighbourly relations between the countries involved .
on the contrary , i think that this demand can only be considered satisfied by a de jure full normalisation of fyrom ' s relations with all its neighbours .
in that sense , the agreement we will be voting on tomorrow , which contributes towards stability in the area , is de facto a move in the right direction .
from that standpoint , the fact that so far it has resisted any influences from its wider environment is a very positive element and under no circumstances should any of us , any state , any policy or any view , impel that small republic towards external , disruptive movements in an effort to solve other problems , granted - let it be noted - that it has institutions which it can build upon still further and so become a real democracy .
you should know that the country which cooperates most with fyrom and has the best relations with it , in the entire area , is greece , and this has contributed greatly to the stability of the area .
the council adopted on 24 january this year its negotiating directives for a stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia .
they cover the prospect of the establishment of a free trade area between the european union and them within ten years of the entry into force of the agreement .
the agreement could enter into force in three to four years from now , given the time needed for ratification in member states ' parliaments .
on the provision of regional aid referred to in the report we agree that our technical and financial assistance should go in part to projects having a cross-border or regional dimension .
i hope that the other countries of the region will redouble their efforts to make similar progress .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m .
that is why , in accordance with declaration no 31 , annexed to the treaty of amsterdam , the union institutions have undertaken a complex task of negotiation and consultation , resulting in the new council decision , which revises the old system quite substantially , although we are not entirely satisfied with it .
essentially , the agreement deals with two points : one is the right of the european parliament to be informed , which is the sine qua non for the genuine exercise of its right to intervene pursuant to article 8 of the decision .
paragraphs 6 and 7 of the agreement confirm that , as a general rule , the european parliament will adopt its resolution , stating its reasons , at a plenary sitting and has one month to exercise its right of intervention before the commission adopts the draft implementing measure .
but we all realise that it is not always possible to wait a month before implementing a measure .
the procedures for exercising these implementing powers take the form of a limited number of committee procedures .
for the european parliament , the first step in the struggle for more transparency in this jungle of committees was to be informed , at least , of all that the european commission intended to regulate in the context of these various committees .
a further step towards transparency and the involvement of the european parliament came with what is known as the modus vivendi of 20 september 1994 , which granted parliament the right not only to be informed but also to intervene in certain cases .
in matters relating to the health and safety of the people of the european union , the european commission , as guardian of the treaties and the only institution with the right of initiative , must be in a position to react very rapidly , if necessary within a few hours or days .
the whole system will be more open and transparent - if still rather complex .
the council will no longer be able to block implementing measures indefinitely beyond the three-month period unless it has a qualified majority to block it , in other words , unless there is substantial opposition among the member states represented in the council .
but on our other two criticisms , we are less satisfied .
the first criticism is of the system whereby the commission is monitored , scrutinised , controlled if you like , only by a committee appointed by member states or the council not by parliament .
the legislative authority , council and parliament , should be equal .
we confer implementing powers on the commission , but then it is only a council or member state appointed body that can blow the whistle and say no to the commission and stop the implementing measure .
even here , we have renounced voluntarily - because this did not happen automatically - the plumb-delors agreement as part of the overall compromise .
mr corbett referred to that , but the new model is certainly much more complex , different because the situation is now different , and , in our opinion , much more coherent .
we hope that this new climate means we have achieved the result we were seeking , which is greater transparency and better information about the decisions of the commission as an executive .
thank you very much , commissioner solbes mira .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m .
to date , the member states have calculated this gdp in accordance with the criteria laid down in esa 79 .
we know the member states have done their duty - if i can use that expression - doing their calculations and preparing their national accounts in line with esa 95 , and they have already published their corresponding estimates .
these changes may of course alter the government deficits in terms of the member states ' national accounting .
i will now describe , very briefly , the five areas where the most important changes may occur .
the non-availability of precise criteria for the definition of government deficit would produce distortions in the estimates of the member states ' government deficits .
fourthly , government debt is defined in accordance with esa 95 , as are the flows or interest stemming from assets / liabilities .
to summarise , i consider that this proposal constitutes a satisfactory adaptation of the criteria laid down in the 1995 european system of accounts , and i therefore approve it in full , as did the committee .
we need that because the various european union bodies and all the member states within monetary union have to be able to depend on one another .
the regulation dating from 1993 on the application of the protocol must be brought into harmony with the methodology of the european system of accounts at national and regional level .
let me also briefly use this debate as an opportunity to urge all the governments and political parties to do their utmost to ensure that this procedure never has to be initiated for an excessive deficit .
in my country , austria , new elections had to be held in 1995 in order to meet the maastricht criteria and persuade our political partner to rethink his approach .
the stability pact is a given in europe .
strict compliance with the stability pact can thus contribute to a culture of stability within all emu member states .
various member states have taken one-off measures to be able to meet the criteria .
we are of the opinion that the member states ' budget policy should be strictly supervised , to ensure that the measures continue to be taken in the spirit of the prescribed criteria at all times .
the figures will be more reliable and more comparable and i think the concerns some members have raised about compliance with the stability pact can be better addressed .
this regulation is purely instrumental .
it does deal with the substance of the problem some of you have raised .
the stability pact is in place and we will continue to press ahead with monitoring compliance by the various member states , despite the fact that the results are clearly positive in all the member states where we have analysed the position as regards the stability of the government deficit .
we must press on in that direction because we know it is vital .
thank you very much , commissioner solbes mira .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m .
the ecb , ecofin , europol , olaf and the commissioner responsible for legal questions have therefore realised that common countermeasures must be taken quickly in order to close the loopholes left by the legislation .
it is easy to forget that it will be possible to exchange the old currencies for twenty years after the new currency has been introduced .
the council ought to have given parliament the stipulated three-month period within which to consider , too , the last document produced on this matter , but we are all aware of how urgent it is to have these measures put safely in place .
on 1 january 2002 the euro will be in circulation .
it is essential that the decision should now be taken in march .
the protective measures cover these countries too , and the views expressed by these countries have carried a lot of weight .
due to its importance on a world scale , the euro will be particularly exposed to the risk of counterfeiting and forgery .
this draft decision therefore lays down a set of minimum standards intended to harmonise criminal law in this field and make its application by each member state simpler and more effective .
it also provides for the euro to be protected even prior to its circulation , which will fill a gap in legislation in some member states .
the provisions of a timeworn international convention that is a good 71 years old .
so the council is naturally worried and is seeking to establish sanctions , primarily criminal , applicable in all the countries of europe , against offences of this kind .
no doubt the council could have been satisfied with a simple resolution recommending that member states adopt national legislation to that effect .
the draft framework decision before us today tries to cover up this lacuna by referring to articles 31 and 34 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the treaty .
article 31 only envisages minimum common rules for criminal acts in certain cases , specifically restricted to organised crime , terrorism and drug trafficking .
article 34 , a product of the treaty of amsterdam , only lays down the new form of a framework decision , and clearly this only applies to the existing powers of the european union .
in other words , the council has not succeeded in giving this text a credible legal basis .
in a way , this is deferred punishment for its lack of honesty , at the time , in presenting the maastricht treaty to the voters .
not so long ago we were dealing with one or more reports on questions of principle relating to the euro in virtually every part-session .
however , there are many underlying problems yet to be resolved .
do i also need to mention that investors who sold dollars to buy euros have lost 20 % since 1 january 1999 , 40 % if they bought bonds , and no less than 55 % if they sold yen to buy euros ?
criminal law is part of each individual nation ' s own cultural tradition , and it is very difficult to arrive at common definitions of what is to be understood by these basic legal concepts .
in my view , it is clearly in conflict with , and far exceeds the scope of , article 34 , paragraph 2 , point b where a legal basis is established for so-called framework decisions which are binding upon the member states in regard to the desired objectives , but in which it is left to the national authorities to determine the form and methods of implementation .
for the safety of the euro is not just a matter of the stability and external value of the currency but , in fact , also of protecting the euro against counterfeiting .
that too is a concern of the people , for , as has rightly been said , this will be a new currency for them , new in terms of how it looks and also how it is used .
as has also been pointed out , in summer 1998 the commission submitted a communication listing a very wide variety of areas where measures need to be taken , such as information , further training - an important area , cooperation between the euro-states and of course even beyond them , and measures under criminal law .
the framework decision will , however , have to be supplemented by other legal acts in future .
the commission will submit a proposal for a regulation on cooperation between all the responsible authorities and on cooperation with europol .
that proposal will establish a duty to cooperate , and a duty on the part of the national authorities to notify europol of cases of counterfeiting and to present any confiscated counterfeit money to the european central bank for identification and classification , so that effective measures can then be taken .
on the question of coordinating the various measures , since early 1998 , the commission , followed now by olaf , has been working with experts on the subject from the member states , the european central bank and europol on means of effectively combating counterfeiting of the euro in advance .
i believe that this debate shortly before midnight will also teach a salutary lesson to all those counterfeiters who believe their hour has come , because they think the eu is no longer awake at this late hour !
thank you very much , commissioner schreyer .
the debate is closed .
proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 85 / 611 / eec on the coordination of laws , regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investments in transferable securities ( ucits ) with a view to regulating management companies and simplified prospectuses ( com ( 1998 ) 451 - c4-0465 / 1998 - 1998 / 0242 ( cod ) ) ; ii .
proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 85 / 611 / eec on the coordination of laws , regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investments in transferable securities ( ucits ) ( com ( 1998 ) 449 - c4-0464 / 1998 - 1998 / 0243 ( cod ) ) . . ( sv ) mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it is my hope that parliament is prepared now to make a decision to extend and strengthen the financial market in europe .
the main purpose of the first proposal is to extend the investment opportunities of collective investment undertakings by allowing them to invest in units in other collective investment undertakings , for example units in funds , standardised options and futures contracts and deposits in credit institutions and in certain types of money market instruments .
the current situation is not good .
as the draftsperson for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , i also wish to place on record my thanks to the secretariat of both the legal affairs committee and the economic affairs committee for their cooperation on this matter .
i am speaking today wearing a number of hats : firstly , as the surrogate father of this report ; secondly , as the draftsperson of the opinion ; and most importantly , as one who sees the tremendous advantages which can be gained for the european union from a harmonised system of ucits investment to ensure that monies presently being earned in europe but invested outside the european union and not put to the benefit of the union economy can be retained within the economy for the creation of entrepreneurship , employment and also for guaranteeing future pension rights .
many members have been working on the basis of trying to protect their own countries ' national interests rather than improving the overall system for europe .
as indicated by the rapporteur , we are discussing probably one of the most important issues that we will ever have to discuss in this parliament .
everyone accepts that investments in derivatives must be legally limited in order to prevent a harmonised fund losing all its assets due to an investment in high-risk products .
as this issue will be returning to this house at some stage , i must highlight the working method used between the commission and this parliament .
mr president , the socialist group supports the commission ' s efforts to implement the action plan for financial services .
but the world of international finance is a dangerous one .
the capital markets are still at the mercy of their excesses .
in 1999 , the increase in the means of payment in the world resulted in over-stimulated stock exchanges and an explosion in the volume of transactions , pushing up the prices of long-term financial and real assets .
you do not need a nobel prize in economics to realise that the current working hypothesis of the financial markets , which anticipate annual growth in profits of the order of 15 to 25 % is quite simply unrealistic in the medium term .
by adopting these amendments , parliament will allow recourse to otc derivatives but will also limit the risk to private investors .
mr president , there is much talk at present of the principle of good governance .
this principle should not only guide the public sector , it should also guide the private sector , especially financial undertakings .
but even with a tailor-made derivative or otc derivative which would be cheaper , perhaps insuring you against a relative fall in your portfolio against the index , you would still have the portfolio and the shares , but you would have protected yourself against the risks of a collapse .
pension funds which suffered from rules on where they could and could not invest , as required by of our government bonds , made returns of 5.2 % a year , barely half the 9.5 % annual returns made by free funds between 1984 and 1996 .
do not confuse a real concern for the interests of investors with a populist fear of the new and the innovative and liberal approach that pays off .
mr president , the report presented to us today seeks to complete the free movement of financial investments in europe , including the most sophisticated forms of investment .
we shall therefore vote cautiously on all amendments limiting recourse to excessively derivative instruments and we shall vote in favour of all amendments which limit the excessive concentration of assets within a single financial group .
this attitude is turning europe into a machine which exempts investment income from tax and shifts the whole tax burden to commercial income , with all the social and even moral consequences which that implies .
mr president , the 1985 directive introduced a sort of european visa for certain types of ucits which could be marketed throughout the union .
this brings us to the two proposals for directives .
it is a step in the right direction , even if one wonders why in heaven , with what right and with what respect for our citizens , we are further bolstering the monopoly of the english language in all documents distributed throughout europe .
the same cannot be said of the first proposal .
we shall also vote against the abolition of the facility for the member states to increase to 35 % ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , this is a vital issue for europe .
ucits are a success story within the european union .
the radical step taken by this report is to allow ucits to use over-the-counter derivatives .
mr schmidt is to be applauded for having obtained the support of parliament for over-the-counter derivatives .
the report gives very adequate protection for consumers .
but a number of the amendments go too far in restricting the use of over-the-counter derivatives .
under the terms of the european passport for ucits , this means that national supervisory authorities have to apply uniform standards in monitoring products and management companies .
discretionary powers for national supervisory authorities must be restricted if we are to create transparency and people are to have faith in the products and management companies in the internal market .
it is therefore an important achievement of the ucits production line to have picked out as a central theme the association between derivatives and otc papers in the interests of efficient portfolio management , for one of the old directive ' s major disadvantages was that each regulatory body understood efficient portfolio management to mean something different .
the european parliament would be well advised to strengthen consumer protection in europe .
thank you very much mr kuckelkorn .
mr president , the ucits directive has been an enormous success since it entered into force on 1 october 1989 , mainly thanks to the excellent protection which it offers investors .
the directive and the reputation which ucits enjoy with investors have allowed the investment fund industry to multiply its assets in the european union fivefold .
there has been a strong increase in cross-border marketing of investments within the european union and the directive itself is used as a model for legislation throughout the world .
i share some of the concerns expressed here , especially by mr garcia-margallo y marfil , but this face-lift would be even more successful if the funds which simply reproduce a stock exchange index , and which are therefore managed either passively or not at all , and the funds which use an index as a benchmark for an actively-managed fund were treated in the same way , if only to allow medium-sized undertakings listed on the stock exchange but not included in the stock exchange index better access to the capital market .
in addition , investors often have better protection with an actively-managed fund .
my amendment no 47 is therefore a warning for amateurs .
at the end of 1999 there were almost 15 000 investment funds registered as ucits with a total value of in excess of eur 2 billion , thereby accounting for roughly 75 % of all funds assets .
hence the commission rightly cited the economic importance thereof in its proposals for draft directives , and i must say that i actually have every confidence in the commission ' s proposal .
why do we not take our cue from the minimum level of protection afforded by the trade in transferable securities directive , article 11 for example , which relates to good practice ?
mr president , commissioner , the proposal for a directive now under discussion brings with it several welcome reforms to the current legal provisions .
firstly , i am very satisfied that the proposal for a directive as a whole increases the scope of investment funds for targeting capital at different instruments .
now i have been told that if you have a difficult debate you know you are in trouble if half the luxembourg members are in the chamber at one time - and they are .
secondly , we consider proposal no 2 to be very confused .
in this we are combining the interests of these citizens with the interests of pensioners who want to live life in tranquillity .
inappropriate restrictions on such relationships should be avoided at all costs , for they fail to take account of the european-style universal banking culture . . ( nl ) mr president , could i first of all express my heartfelt thanks to rapporteur , mr olle schmidt , and the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , which has principal authority , as well as the rapporteur , mr brian crowley and the members of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , whom i would like to thank for their thorough and important work on the refinement and extension of the proposals .
the two proposals form a coherent whole .
the first proposal extends the number of instruments in which an ' undertaking for collective investment in transferable securities ' ( ucits ) can invest .
as already remarked in this session , ucits are key players within the modern capital markets .
since diverse types of investment are permitted , private investors can also benefit from all the advantages of new investment techniques .
the second proposal expands the role which these important intermediary organisations can play within the eu capital markets in terms of developing the investment funds sector .
the commission will adopt amendments nos - and i am now referring to the most recent numbering - 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 9 , 13 , 19 and 21 for the first proposal , and 23 , 28 and 32 for the second proposal , since these are really very useful clarifications and improvements .
i also value the ideas put forward in amendments nos 1 , 10 , 11 , 14 , 18 and 20 , although the wording needs to be adapted .
i can also accept the idea in the second proposed paragraph of amendment no 47 .
this amendment could also lead to different interpretations in the member states , which might well look for similar instruments in other articles of the directive .
amendment no 16 jeopardises the protection of investors because a blocked security deposit with a third party custodian is a contradiction in terms .
amendment no 42 relates to a provision which was not changed by the proposal and which has not caused any problems since the implementation of the directive .
i therefore cannot see any reason why article 22 , paragraph 3 should be omitted and reject the amendment for this reason .
amendment no 44 cannot be accepted because , if it is prescribed that non-harmonised funds are subject to rules which have been ' imposed by the directive ' concerning lending , borrowing , selling from an uncovered position and the third party custodian , this will indeed lead to a situation where very few funds , for example swiss funds , would be eligible for investment .
amendment no 47 is unacceptable as far as the proposed changes to the first paragraph of article 22a are concerned , because this proposal completely clashes with the spreading rules of article 22 , especially when the ucits are obliged to indicate a point of reference in their prospectuses , as discussed in the council .
it seems inconsistent to opt for an extremely prudent approach with regard to investments as non-harmonised funds or deposits and , at the same time , freely to allow investments in clearly more risky otc instruments .
by rejecting the rapporteur ' s amendment no 39 , the committee on economic and monetary affairs has aligned itself with the council .
the upshot of this amendment by parliament would be that funds are allowed , in theory , to invest in otc instruments and to trade the rights of participation in their funds across the entire internal market .
given this possibly negative effect on the internal market and the risks inherent in otc instruments , the commission cannot accept amendments nos 12 , 15 , 37 , 38 , 39 , 43 , 46 and 48 and parts of amendments nos 17 , 36 and 45 which pertain to otc instruments .
the application of the provisions of the directive concerning the performance of services in the field of investments in securities , better known as isd , is therefore unnecessary and could lead to difficulties or confusion .
amendment no 33 is ambiguous regarding ' the language ' of the guest member state , especially when there are various official languages , and it is questionable what will be gained from translations in two other languages .
amendment no 35 cannot be accepted because legally , it cannot command any authority .
management companies which are denied access to a member state would need to re-incorporate as a different legal entity in order to be permitted in another member state .
amendments nos 49 , 50 and 51 , which share the same basis , are not acceptable because they make substantial changes to the consistent approach of the commission regarding the regulations of third party delegation , and do not offer sufficient security to the competent authorities and investors .
but hedging operations are already allowed in the existing article 21 ( 1 ) of directive 611 / 85 on ucits .
the separation of these two proposals which deal with two different sets of problems would facilitate the negotiating process in the council .
these are the reasons why the commission believes , because of the prudence that has to be exercised in this field , that these various limits are necessary .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 12 noon .
some of these differences have already been ironed out , but others persist .
it will also be built on scrupulous respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and on the guarantee of fair trials in particular .
mr president , it is our opinion that one facet of the construction of europe hinges on the construction of a common judicial system , for the europe that we want to build , which comprises administrative law , civil law , both substantive and procedural , and criminal law , both substantive and procedural .
the convention on mutual assistance and criminal matters , which we are examining today , is but a stitch in the great fabric of the corpus iuris of europe , which has its natural foundation in fundamental human rights and freedoms .
it is a curious thing when italy ' s criminal prosecution authorities , which are affected by what goes on in this parliament , see amendments tabled by people who are being prosecuted in italy itself - rightly , as i see it .
the goal is , after all , to provide the judicial bodies - magistrates , in the first place , but also the citizens involved - with the instruments to fight crime without prejudice to the fundamental guarantees of defence and the general principles of human rights .
this condition of accrual is essential since , in my opinion , the principle of nulla poena sine lege , legality in criminal law , must be observed .
as such , any request for legal assistance concerning a hypothetical action which is not a crime in the petitioned member state contravenes this principle of legality and thus the fundamental principles of justice in the petitioned member state .
thanks to the agreement , it is possible to create a chain of legal assistance requests , whereby each link represents authorities and criminal law systems of different member states .
mr president , the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters that we are examining today contains the minimum requirements for efficient and rapid cooperation between the various judicial or investigative bodies concerned .
the fact that the convention has not been turned into a framework agreement also constitutes a defeat for this parliament .
it is clear that the justice sector , more than any other , cannot be handled in an inconsistent or contradictory manner .
we will , in conclusion , vote against this report , while stressing that the europe to which we aspire is a europe of rights and guarantees : rights and guarantees that call for gradual and responsible discussion , as well as very serious examination .
there are two reasons why we are saying no .
mr president , alarmed as i am at the prejudgement issued by 14 member states , i maintain that the planned agreement can only signify a first step in the right direction .
however , i believe that it could be substantially improved with the aid of amendments and i feel that in this case a little is more than nothing at all .
on the other hand , our police forces and criminal prosecution authorities are organised at national level .
that is a whole host of measures that will help us to proceed efficiently and on a joint basis in matters of criminal law .
the overall result is remarkable and i hope that the council will fully take it into account .
there is , as has already been said , one point still to resolved , which is also the most delicate one : it concerns article 18 of the convention , which relates to the interception of communications originating in one member state , but which are directly performed by another member state , without the assistance being requested of the state in which the interception is being carried out , something which is now possible thanks to the latest technology .
the most important thing will be the harmonisation of the laws of the member states , but for now let us content ourselves with this small step forward , as it is a step in the right direction .
article 18 allows interception in another member state without its involvement .
an initiative of the fbi drew up the user requirements which form the basis of the current legislation .
the council proposal containing those requirements , enfopol 98 was approved by this parliament last may in the schmid report .
we are very concerned about the direction we are taking here without proper public debate within the national parliaments or elsewhere and without the involvement of civil liberties organisations throughout europe which are extremely concerned about these developments .
mr president , i am neither a member of the legal affairs committee nor a lawyer , but like almost all of us , i understand the need for this single economic area of europe to have its parallel in a single area of freedom , security and justice .
the presumed killer , sid ahmed rezala , is also strongly suspected of having murdered the british student isabel peake , who was raped and thrown out of the train taking her to see her parents , and another young woman , emilie bazin , who was found dead in amiens under a pile of coal in the building where he lived .
he should never have stayed in france , having been reported to the transport police more than 40 times for offences , which should have been enough for him to be expelled back to his home country .
he should never have been free because 14 charges of theft , violence and rape had been brought against him , one of which was for the rape of a minor .
mr president , this agreement deals with a sensitive issue : cooperation in the field of criminal law .
the council ' s proposal must comply with legislation of the national member states in the field of criminal law .
mr di pietro ' s proposal to omit the current article 18 regarding intercepting telecommunications , amongst other things , is understandable , although very strict .
the text of article 18 is ambiguous : he is restricting the activities of the intelligence services but seems to allow interception activities by a member state in another member state without the latter ' s prior authorisation .
pursuant to article 29 of the eu treaty , the union ' s objective is ' to provide citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom , security and justice by developing common action among the member states in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and by preventing and combating racism and xenophobia ' .
i should like to stress this point because it is paramount .
mr president , as you know , all of our countries abolished the death penalty years ago , but with nearly a thousand suicides a year in our prisons , they have not really abolished it ?
mr president , co-operation in the field of law is without doubt essential in free market europe , but it must hinge on the strictest respect for those principles which lie at the very heart of our civilisation : the fundamental human rights and freedoms , laid down in the european convention on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms .
i turn to mr schulz in confirming that we always submit amendments not on a personal basis or for personal motives , but in connection with general political concerns .
according to the action plan to combat organised crime adopted by the council in april 1997 , the work on the draft mla convention should have been finalised before the end of 1997 .
even with the new rules introduced by the treaty of amsterdam , foreseeing its entry into force once at least half of the member states have adopted the convention , i would like to urge the member states to do everything in their power to speedily ratify this convention .
instead it aims at building on tried and tested mechanisms that have been in place for a very long time , such as the ones foreseen by the council of europe convention on mutual assistance of 1959 and the benelux treaty .
the draft that the council has elaborated contains provisions on a variety of matters that have been discussed by several members of parliament .
we must recognise that article 18 concerns what is clearly a controversial decision .
the commission is fully aware of the fact that the draft we have before us is not perfect or ideal .
the text we have is the result of the mixture of the institutional set-ups foreseen for judicial cooperation in criminal matters under both the maastricht and amsterdam treaties respectively .
the words ' issued by ' also need to be added after the words ' transferable securities ' .
the amended text will then read , and again i must read it in english , which is the lingua franca of our parliament : ' transferable securities issued by over the counter derivatives dealt with ' , etc .
madam president , my apologies , i was looking at amendment no 36 , which logically precedes amendment no 37 .
the text therefore reads : ' instruments with a high rating base on a recognised rating scale are subject to reliable and verifiable valuation ' .
amendment no 83 in italian , which is the original version , states that ' il minore deve essere assistito da una persona di sua fiducia o da un perito o legale esterno ' .
i should like you , madam president , to express to the council our wish that they be present at such votes in future .
we want to bring this across in parliament .
however , i do not consider it would be appropriate to do this before all member states have approved commissioner monti ' s proposal for minimum taxes on capital .
brok report ( a5-0029 / 2000 ) madam president , there has recently been much talk of the importance of enlarging the european union .
we have before us malta and cyprus , which are two states keen to become members .
the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to set up the first programme to implement the strategy for cyprus and malta , starting in the year 2000 and lasting for five years ( 2000-2004 ) .
the proposal therefore aims to facilitate harmonisation of their legislation with the acquis communautaire and the correct application of the acquis communautaire .
on a more general note , it is true that the socio-economic situation in these two countries is far better than in other candidate countries .
however , they have received technical assistance and financial aid from the european union in order to transpose the acquis communautaire .
until 1999 , this technical assistance and financial aid was provided under the fourth financial protocols ( b7-4011 ) .
both countries also qualify for financial aid under the meda programme ( b7-4012 ) .
during the first and second readings of the 2000 budget , the european parliament stressed that the new ' pre-accession ' heading ( b7-0 ) , proposed by the commission in the preliminary draft budget , should not be limited to the candidate countries of central and eastern europe and should also be extended to malta and cyprus .
however , because of the council ' s refusal to negotiate a review of the ceiling set for heading 7 ( pre-accession ) in the financial perspectives , the european parliament agreed , by way of exception , and i stress that it was by way of exception , that this expenditure should be financed under heading 4 ( external action ) of the financial perspectives for the year 2000 .
the package will grant around euro 15 million in total for the two countries in the current year .
the union should use every means at its disposal to guard against counterfeiting .
the purpose of the framework decision is to supplement the provisions of the international convention for the suppression of counterfeiting currency of 20 april 1929 and to facilitate its application by the member states .
these offences must be punishable even if they relate to banknotes and coins denominated in euros but not yet issued and if they are committed before 1 january 2002 .
it would also appear to be in the union ' s interest for all member states to help protect the euro , especially sweden , denmark , the united kingdom and greece , which will not be introducing the euro on 1 january 2002 .
nor , in the light of the international convention of 20 april 1929 , can there be any confusion as to which country should deal with any criminal cases .
when the notes and coins come into circulation after 1 january 2002 , everything possible must be done to ensure maximum confidence in the euro .
di pietro report ( a5-0019 / 2000 ) madam president , as the representative of the pensioners ' party , there have been many occasions on which i have stated , at the committee stage , that the european union must intervene in regulating the lives of the elderly , and in the measures and rules on pensions , as is already the case , in coordination .
i worked in africa 30 years ago , and it was poor and underdeveloped but the problems are now more catastrophic .
two million people died of aids in africa last year , approximately 200 000 died in wars .
there is a highly revealing passage on this point in the work programme for the year 2000 attached to the strategic guidelines .
i think there are three reasons for this : 1 ) in their endeavour to transcend the nation states , the european institutions have lost touch with the people and , in losing touch with the people , they have become putty in the hands of foreign interests ; 2 ) having lost touch with the people , the men and women working in these institutions have started to become used to reasoning not as the sole champions of the people , but as international officials in charge of regulating a global system ; 3 ) integration may afford economies of scale and productivity gains ; but it also causes far more to be lost because , when it breaks nations , it breaks subtle expressions of solidarity and , with them , the willingness to present a united front . . ( fr ) i share the overriding sense of deep and keen dissatisfaction expressed during the debate .
as for the future , given that the commission has shown itself incapable of taking action against fascism in austria , i am convinced that blocking measures to liberalise the single market is the only way of administering a salutary electric shock treatment to the heart of all the countries in the union . - ( it ) on behalf of the italian communists , i would like to express great dissatisfaction at the contents of the document , which was expected to define the strategic guidelines for europe up until the year 2005 .
employment : for many years now , the connection between economic growth and an increase in employment has not been borne out by reality , and yet , despite the fact that it has been proved to be useless , the same recipe is being put forward again as a solution to the acute problem of unemployment .
europe ' s role : we first need to emphasise that europe rejects war as an instrument for resolving international conflict : only then can we talk of the ' military ' role of the union .
we are also in the president ' s debt for adopting an appropriate stance in relation to what is going on the home political front in austria .
the president has recently set out his position vis-a-vis austria in connection with the safeguarding of eu fundamental values .
enlargement appears to be an end in itself , but unless decisions are made on a social policy , a common value and an institution to strengthen the cohesion and democratisation of the union , the europe bequeathed to us at the end of mr prodi ' s presidency may well be a simple common market area within the context of generalised globalisation , rather than the community of destiny which we hope for .
the nature of the eu has not changed .
since the beginning it has served the interests of a few dozen large financial and industrial groups and their pressure groups .
but the prodi commission now wants to transform the eu so that it can apply for joint global governance with the united states , which it also sees as its future competitor and rival .
we shall vote against these objectives , because we are fighting against this policy both in parliament and on the streets .
secondly , in terms of the definition of priorities for the next five years , we consider that the main question to be considered by the commission is its role in interinstitutional relations within the eu which neither the programme nor the motion mention .
the mechanisms used in the cooperation between the governments of the member states must therefore be reinforced and made more coherent , more transparent and more democratic .
corrie report ( a5-0032 / 2000 ) madam president , the work of the acp-eu joint assembly was coloured in 1999 by growing concern about the sustainability of the cooperation models derived from the lome conventions .
as paul-marie couteaux rightly said in his intervention yesterday and in his proposed amendments , one wonders exactly what political coherence this blank cheque represents .
it is most worrying , especially as a similar agreement with mexico appears to be taking shape .
the report comes just after agreement has been reached on the renewal of the existing lome convention , which expires at the end of this month .
the new agreement provides for a development budget of eur 13.5 billion over the next seven years .
civil society must be involved in the planning and implementation of these projects .
the decision to include a clause obliging acp countries to take back illegal immigrants entering europe is worrying and will have to be implemented with extreme sensitivity .
over 95 % of all hiv infected individuals live in the developing countries and sub-saharan africa is the worst affected region in the world .
the aids problem in africa is not only a private or public health issue but a development one .
the effects of the aids pandemic mean that any progress in development matters in the sub-saharan region is being neutralised or reversed .
it is incumbent on the european union and the united nations to address what is a social and fatal problem in a comprehensive and strategic manner .
on a separate matter altogether , i would like to support cuba ' s membership as an acp country within the framework of the new lome convention which will shortly be agreed between the european union and african , caribbean and pacific countries .
however , on this occasion , the european union will be insisting on introducing political criteria into the lome convention accord .
now , more than 30 years after the inauguration of an unprecedented partnership between north and south , the tool which has proven its worth and served its time needs to be adapted in order to meet new challenges .
which is why the new 20-year agreement due to be signed in fiji on 31 may represents more than the simple renewal of the conventions regulating relations between europe and the acp .
the joint assembly also represents the tribunal before which the countries of europe and the developing countries defend their common interests .
after the debacle in seattle , our duty from now on is to adopt a concerted position and ensure that the rules of world trade develop and are used to fight poverty .
apart from reducing the volume of exports from these countries to the community market , what we term ' development aid ' to the acp has fallen constantly , from 70 % of total european union aid in 1986 to 30 % in 1998 .
the european union prefers to send its funds to eastern europe , the former ussr and asia , where there is greater opportunity for profit .
whether through the minimum wage in manchester or debt relief in durban , labour ' s aim of poverty reduction remains the same .
for the best way to reduce world poverty is to help developing countries help themselves .
and the best way to help developing countries help themselves is to open up world markets to allow them to sell their products .
thus , whether through the new deal in newcastle or fair trade in freetown , labour ' s aim of opportunity for all remains the same .
swoboda report ( a5-0031 / 2000 ) . ( el ) the eu ' s stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia , in the form of a joint agreement as established by article 310 of the eu treaty , can contribute to the stabilisation and development of that balkan republic .
there are different types of agreements or relations or lack of relations - going even as far as the embargo on yugoslavia - which result in a fragmented and ineffectual approach .
symbolic because it reflects well on the fifteen ' s project to see the birth of a policy which is common to the five countries in the region ( bosnia-herzegovina , croatia , federal republic of yugoslavia , fyrom and albania ) and which would make economic and political stability a pressing and urgent requirement .
the community construction only makes sense if it creates positive discriminations alone , and the uen group hopes that this signal to fyrom and specific action in its wake will help us make a sustainable contribution to the development and peaceful coexistence of the nation states in this fully-paid up part of europe .
through the agreement , the european parliament will automatically be sent the relevant material in connection with decisions made in accordance with the rules under article 251 of the treaty .
it has economic implications and an impact on employment and social cohesion , but it also provides major new opportunities when anticipated , prepared for and managed .
the acceleration of technological progress and the increasing competitive pressure of globalising markets are pushing companies to rapidly adapt their production and company structures .
the commission is acutely aware of this situation and of the need for people to feel basic security in difficult times of change .
we have built a wide range of instruments which meet these concerns in recent years in the european union .
we have set minimum requirements at european level , which all member states and all companies must observe when contemplating job losses , especially when they are massive , or preparing other decisions likely to affect workers .
i wish to recall that it is , in principle , up to national courts to deal with possible violations of these rules , if and when they are brought before them by national representatives .
however , even when existing rules or arrangements are formally respected this does not mean that management ' s attitude is socially irreprehensible .
in a world characterised by permanent change and in the context of high levels of unemployment , the rules in force seem to us to be outdated as they do not allow or promote the key ideas behind our employment strategy and our approach to change , anticipation , risk prevention and employability .
i hope that this debate contributes to reminding member states of the importance and urgent nature of this initiative .
the forthcoming french presidency also seems willing to give this dossier the high priority it deserves .
the commission sincerely hopes that parliament and the council quickly finalise this important dossier which constitutes , in our view , the most effective answer to the concerns raised by cases such as the ones which brought us here today .
as for the transnational level of employee involvement there is some indication that at least in one case the companies may have breached transnational information and consultation agreements which they had concluded with their european workforce .
the commission will contact the relevant national authorities to check this .
nevertheless , as my colleague , commissioner diamantopoulou has already underlined on other occasions , when deciding whether or not to revise the directive immediately , different considerations must be taken into account .
secondly , an immediate revision would make things much more complicated as regards progress in respect of the other pending dossiers in this field like european company statutes and the national information and consultation proposal .
the successful outcome of these other dossiers could greatly facilitate the subsequent revision of the ewc directive and even provide some degree of a solution to the problems identified above .
that is why we tend to consider that it might be more appropriate in this context to proceed with the revision of the european works council directive only after the conclusion of those two dossiers and following a more complete evaluation of the application of the directive .
as for the enforcement of the links between competition policy and social policy , let me remind you that there is a provision in the merger regulation which enables workers ' representatives to be heard by the commission in the framework of the relevant procedure .
i know we will be coming back to these issues again in the future to see how we can best make sure our policies are adapted and reformed to underpin economic and social progress in europe .
mr gorostiaga atxalandabaso , i understand you have a point of order .
mr president , the problem is one of public honour in this parliament , it is not a personal statement .
the subject in question is of great political and social importance .
free enterprise , free movement and free competition are essential pillars of the political and economic structure of the european union .
company restructuring is part of the principle of free determination of investments , and must therefore be defended .
in italy , commissioner liikanen , goodyear is not carrying out restructuring but closing a plant whose production covers 14 % of the market and which goodyear itself defined as , ' having the most highly-skilled workforce of all its plants ' , a plant which was opened with a total of eur 85 million of european capital .
commissioner liikanen , we expect an authoritative intervention .
the goodyear case is not localised and limited to the industry in question : it concerns a thousand families who have lost their jobs overnight , and are left without income or prospects for the future .
an example is the directive on the information and consultation of workers which you mentioned , that has been awaiting a solution for years and upon which the european parliament gave its opinion very clearly in april last year .
i believe that the european union and the commission must ask the council and the member states to consider the procedures for implementing these directives in the different states as well .
this makes it possible for companies to relocate , even within the european union , from one country to another where directives are less strictly applied , companies have greater benefits and workers are less well protected .
all this confirms our conviction that something like sanctions , which we reiterated were very important when we gave our opinion on the information and consultation directive last year , can on no account be abandoned .
it appears that goodyear in italy received italian and european subsidies to the tune of approximately eur 40 million .
this is why the liberal group will vote against paragraph 8 and the second section of paragraph 9 .
we are all aware of the fact that restructuring , as we know it today , contradicts the stated objectives of the european union on employment and social and territorial cohesion on all counts .
first , draft a very accurate report on the implementation of the collective redundancies and european works council directives and use all the pressure , warnings and sanctions needed in order to ensure that they are applied to the letter .
we must strengthen our legislation in order to close these loopholes ; we must reform it and guarantee workers new rights , especially the right to contest the economic justification for redundancies .
yet the current situation in europe provides us with clear examples of how jobs are being destroyed , particularly , and most seriously , by companies which are making huge profits .
yet again , workers are likely to lose their jobs .
this time , i am referring to the workers of the company goodyear in cisterna di latina .
as has already been pointed out , in one month ' s time , 600 people and as many families could be deprived of their sole source of income .
the european commission and the council must , at last , assume all the necessary responsibilities , both with regard to the adoption of a common position on the information and consultation of workers and with regard to community and national aid , which must only be granted to companies who undertake to establish long-term agreements to protect jobs .
today , we ask the commission to start by protecting the workers at goodyear in cisterna , and therefore to put as much pressure as possible on the company for it to come to an agreement as soon as possible , thereby ensuring the continued existence and operation of the cisterna plant .
the various recent announcements referred to by previous speakers , be they by michelin or goodyear , are symptomatic in this respect .
mr president , last month in the uk , in a region that neighbours mine , the michelin group announced significant redundancies at its stoke-on-trent plant due to company restructuring and increasing global competitiveness in the world market for tyres .
we need multinational companies to base their businesses within our continent .
we meps speak often about smes and have now come up with a unique way of creating them .
but maybe next time , we ought to discuss corus , the merger which has now taken place between our nederlandse hoogovens and british steel .
the government is talking to trade union and goodyear delegates in italy as well , in an endeavour to find a solution to the closure policy unilaterally adopted by the north american multinational in cisterna di latina , an area of central italy which has already been affected by other restructuring operations .
the goodyear workers are putting up a magnificent fight , in the knowledge that they are defending not only their own interests but the interests of the goodyear workers in the different european countries as well , and there are many of them : france , germany , the united kingdom , poland , luxembourg and slovenia .
the european union , in all of its aspects , must use all of its powers to resolve this and other disputes .
he acknowledged that 15 million europeans are currently looking for work and that unemployment is the main source of poverty and social exclusion .
the new company has announced its intention to initiate a restructuring plan with the aim of making savings .
in my region of the uk in particular the employment consequences of this merger have been severe as a result of abb-alsthom having announced that it was cutting 270 jobs in britain with 95 jobs being lost in stafford and 112 in rugby .
it is especially important in the case of large international companies where decisions are taken far from the employee .
point 17 of the community charter of fundamental social rights of workers stresses the need for consultation , adding that this shall apply especially in companies having establishments in two or more member states .
eu legislation on this issue could not be clearer .
the commission would do well in this sort of situation to make its decisions not simply on the basis of whether a merger will distort competition but also on the basis of the social and economic consequences .
what we also need urgently is an impact assessment study on the effect of merger in every situation .
this is the only way of respecting article 127 of the treaty .
i welcome the statement made by commissioner liikanen , but i also look for the support of this parliament to ensure that the legislation which we have passed on workers ' rights is implemented rigorously and to ensure that impact assessments on the workforce for proposed mergers are undertaken as a matter of course .
these events , which are unfortunately overshadowing the political decisions in this area , confirm without doubt that the development of the tampere agreements and title iv of the ec treaty must be an urgent priority .
today ' s problems cannot be solved in five years .
the legislation of the member states must be brought into line with the agreements of the governments in tampere , as paragraph 7 of the motion states .
this is a very important social debate in the creation of a european area in which the right to freedom , security and justice will be recognised in the future charter of fundamental rights .
the proof of this lies in the fact that the groups in this house have reacted and tabled several motions for resolutions .
we do not want africa to become our cross , in fact quite the contrary .
secondly we are conducting a programme of social integration .
mr president , last week , in the andalusian town of el ejido , we saw scenes which were inappropriate to the european union in the year 2000 .
this was acknowledged by the commission president , romano prodi , on 9 february when he confirmed that what had occurred in el ejido went against the very principles of the european union .
however , instead of producing these events which we are condemning , migration must generate social , cultural and economic enrichment .
in particular , local authorities and mayors have a direct responsibility to prevent any demonstration of racism or xenophobia , especially when this involves violent and aggressive acts against people and their property .
these authorities must also help to achieve difficult agreements between the parties involved and must not hinder these , as has happened with the mayor in question .
finally , as our nobel prize winner , jose saramago , has said , we are all in each other and as jesus christ said , although saramago disagreed with this , we should not just love one another , more importantly , we should respect one another .
all these factors have unfortunately been accumulating over time and are now allowing those who are cruel , intolerant , racist and destructive , of which all our countries have some examples , but thankfully a minority , to light the fuse of xenophobia .
mr president , this resolution expresses solidarity with the democratic forces in spain fighting for human rights .
what happened at el ejido is the result of inadmissible racist and xenophobic practices in europe today .
what happened in spain could happen in any country in the union if we are not careful .
i support this proposal for a resolution , especially the points which refer to the application of article 13 of the amsterdam treaty , and point 11 of this resolution establishing a link between the structural funds allocated and the fight against exclusion .
it would be to our credit were the european parliament to roundly condemn these events and support all proposals tabled in order to ensure that the rights of immigrants in spain and throughout the union are respected .
finally , and i think this is important : why not have the honesty today to relay what was disclosed in a recent un study explaining that , if spain wishes to preserve its work , retirement and pension potential , it is no good just giving 30 000 immigrants a year legal status ; it needs to be prepared to accept 12 million immigrants between now and the year 2050 ?
we must insist today as a matter of urgency on the right to education and the duty to remember , to recall the dates in history when our countries teetered on the brink of horror .
mr president , since the signature of the treaty of amsterdam , the european union has had responsibility for combating racism and xenophobia .
outside the community arena , some governments are making efforts to renew their immigration policies .
this is occurring in my country , despite the government , the party in power being the only one which does not like the new law on aliens .
the objective of combating racism and xenophobia , explained in the treaties , should be the objective of all european institutions and politicians .
president prodi and commissioner diamantopoulou have both issued separate statements .
of course progress has been made in recent years but we still have to work together towards a climate of tolerance in which racism and xenophobia are regarded as completely beyond the pale , completely unacceptable , while at the same time we deal very robustly with incidents such as the ones we are discussing this afternoon .
the european union has already laid the basis for community legislation on combating discrimination on the grounds of race .
the insertion of article 13 , which was referred to during the debate , dealing with non-discrimination in the treaty establishing the european community , is one of the most significant changes of the last revision of the treaties .
since the treaty of amsterdam came into force the commission has presented a package of proposals for the implementation of article 13 including , in particular , a proposal for a directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic origin .
the european council also considered it important to step up the prevention of illegal immigration .
those rights are , by definition , universal .
the el ejido incidents were shocking , as several members have said in their speeches .
but trying to take something positive from them , i hope they will spur us on to translate our aspirations about tolerance , fairness and freedom into real and effective policies that will help to transform the lives of all those families and individuals in the european union who cry out for our understanding and our help and who deserve it , not at some indefinite moment in the future , but here today .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 6 p.m .
the other reason is that this text does not , unfortunately , go very far .
i also doubt that any of you can believe that milosevic could resist for very long if the international community eventually resolved the question of the final status of kosovo .
finally , i do not think that any of you believe that the present status quo will bring minimum stability and hence minimum development to kosovo .
they declared that this war was needed to uphold human rights .
but the violations of human rights go further , and supporters of the milosevic regime were not the only ones to trample human rights underfoot ; sadly , those whom nato set out to defend are guilty of the same .
the kpc , the kosovo protection corps , must be investigated following suspicions that some members are involved in criminal activity , and appropriate steps must be taken .
if the representatives of the council had sons , brothers or fathers in the prisons in serbia then i feel there would be a more rapid response .
the albanian doctor , flora brovina , who was sentenced in nis on 13 january , is now in a prison hospital and is extremely ill .
in the joint resolution , we ask the council and the member states to double their efforts to ensure respect for minority groups and to work towards the creation of democratic structures , giving a voice to all those forces which still believe in peaceful coexistence .
what she has said here is completely justified .
needless to say , the situation in mitrovica is very dangerous and we all know why .
the people are holding demonstrations , they are sending us e-mails .
the case of flora brovina is just one of many .
the fact that they are locked up in serbia also fuels the unrest and violence in kosovo .
as for serbia and the thousands of abducted albanians who continue to languish in prisons in yugoslavia , i would like to make the following point quite plain : it is absolutely scandalous that the council is beginning to lift sanctions against rump yugoslavia , that those on the left of this house are demanding that more sanctions be lifted , yet not one of these motions states that this is inextricably linked by way of a condition with the release of political prisoners in serbia , including kosovan albanians .
mr president , in the present joint draft resolution , paragraph 10 urges the council and member states - rightly so - to double their efforts so as to make the necessary manpower and resources available for the un police units .
this request is fully in line with the vision held by the special representative of the un in kosovo , mr bernard kouchner .
moreover , half of this group is from the united states and germany .
paris is leaving its fellow-countryman completely in the cold with a handful of policemen , not more than 37 , in the crisis region .
for this hardly honourable position , mr kouchner blames none other than the minister for home affairs , mr chevenement .
so i think that we urgently need to get to the point where we can pass a general political resolution in which we can get to the heart of the matter , especially the worrying things which we are discussing , particularly logistics support for the information services by the united states and great britain , generalised corruption in the regime linked to multinational oil companies and numerous other extremely ' spicy ' matters which we need to go into .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the european parliament has rightly led the way in promoting human rights in the european union .
clearly , governments are often more sensitive to the interests of realpolitik and to commercial , geostrategic or economic interests .
yet the latter cannot exist without free and unrestricted social communication which itself cannot exist when journalists are persecuted , detained , threatened or put under pressure .
human rights are being violated consistently and have been for a long period of time , not only by unita , but also by the government itself .
for example , i have today received information directly from rafael marques , whose situation we are discussing , according to which two correspondents from portuguese television have been imprisoned in angola .
the problem considered by the motion is a major one but , as has already been touched upon , could be regarded as minor in light of the even greater problem of the general situation in angola which is experiencing a terrible humanitarian disaster .
the international community and the european union must spell this out very clearly .
these journalists are professionals who are trying to inform the public in their country and denounce the corruption existing in this regime , for which they are being persecuted .
the cause of these journalists is therefore one which we must embrace , although bearing in mind that the problem goes much wider and much deeper and is much more terrible .
the people of angola deserve better .
we would , at the same time , like to insist on other things .
the so-called civilised world should hang its head in shame .
mr president , the facts are well-known .
on 24 december , the angolan court sentenced a correspondent of the portuguese paper , expresso , to a year ' s imprisonment and a fine of usd 20 000 .
another journalist was threatened with his life during a parliamentary debate last month by a member of parliament of the mpla government party .
these are only two examples of a trend in angola to silence any government critics .
there is indeed a great deal of hypocrisy regarding angola .
on the basis of a report , the human rights organisation global witness concluded that the western world is turning a blind eye to the activities of dos santos because it is fishing for lucrative oil contracts .
native americans in the us - dineh mr president , the american leaders do not seem to have learnt a great deal from the criticism of how they treated the indians and other indigenous peoples .
once again , the individuality , dignity and health of a people are being sacrificed to the higher economic interest .
once again , we are losing a piece of our planet ' s cultural and ecological heritage , despite the many treaties and resolutions on human rights , on the protection of minorities , rights of indigenous peoples , etc . , which have already been ratified .
it is of key importance that the american authorities provide greater clarity regarding the way in which they are trying to offer these families a dignified alternative in keeping with a traditional way of life .
it is also important that a debate is held where the long-term effects of mining in this region are discussed and weighed up in economic , ecological and social terms .
mr president , as mr van hecke rightly pointed out , this is about human rights and about the rights of indigenous peoples , and parliament must speak up , especially vis-a-vis good friends , and the united states is a good friend .
it is important to point this out .
the area where the people in question are now being taken - and this is also the reason for this resolution - is a polluted area which is economically not suitable .
we need to continue to stand up for these rights , especially in our own member states and societies , but also elsewhere .
the area in arizona which is to be the new land for the dineh indians was hit in 1979 by the worst nuclear disaster in us history .
the fight of these indians is being backed by more than 250 ngos and , thanks to the efforts of the belgian ' mother earth ' organisation , we are being kept informed of this situation .
today , the dineh indians are facing their final fight for their right to land , for their right to dignity and , above all , for their right to their way of life .
the dineh people belong to the north-american navajo indians .
this relocation is , of course , unacceptable because human rights are being violated in economic , social and cultural terms .
the relocation act was pushed through in congress by a group representing the coal mining industry .
the united states administration , the coal industry and all of us need to acquit ourselves of our responsibility and provide a sound alternative : either the soil is cleaned or the dineh indians are allocated a proper place where provision is made for all kinds of support , be it in the psychological , social , cultural or budgetary field .
we would ask the council and the commission for clear and prompt action and a political initiative which does not overlook the issue of human rights .
we insist that these violations of human rights are investigated .
the fate of andrey babitsky , the correspondent in grozny of radio liberty , who was arrested by russian troops , is a dramatic example of russian policy .
it contravenes article 3 of the geneva convention of 1949 and is a flagrant violation of the freedom of the press .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the tragic case of the courageous russian journalist andrey babitsky illustrates once again the depth of the democratic crisis into which russia has sunk .
without any hesitation , the russian minister for internal affairs , vladimir rushailo , earlier this week confirmed the answer to this revealing question .
the victim of this exchange is said to be the 35-year-old war correspondent of radio free europe / radio liberty , andrey babitsky .
cambodia mr president , commissioner , it is because of my experience in the balkans , when i was there on duty , that i call on you today to support the efforts of the secretary-general of the united nations to bring those responsible for the genocide in cambodia to trial before an independent court under the aegis of the united nations .
if we want to help the cambodians with the task of reconciliation on which they have embarked , we need to try and sentence those responsible at the highest level and thus exonerate the simple underlings and all those who were willingly or forcibly dragged along behind them .
in march of last year , a member of sam rengie ' s party was killed by a group of men in military uniform in the province of kandal .
mr president , there is a new doctrine taking shape in international law , according to which no country can treat its citizens or the people living within its territory in any way it likes , and the sovereignty of the state can no longer prevent outside intervention when there are gross violations of human rights , not even when the government is legally or even democratically elected .
at the same time , the struggle against impunity is under threat .
first of all , on kosovo , the commission fully shares the concerns expressed in these draft resolutions as regards general policy towards kosovo , as regards the continuing ethnic violence and as regards the prisoners in serb jails .
our efforts in kosovo , as elsewhere in the wider region , are directed at short and medium-term recovery and long-term stabilisation .
our assistance programmes in the fields of democratisation and human rights should continue to build confidence in general and , in particular , to try to build confidence between the various communities .
the plight of kosovar albanians who have been missing since the end of the war is particularly distressing .
we call on everyone , within and outside kosovo , to support these common aims , to support unmik and kfor in their efforts to achieve them .
we fully support the work of the un through unua , given its specific responsibility to monitor the human rights situation in angola .
an essential element will be support for democracy and human rights , including specific initiatives to strengthen democratic institutions and civil society .
the european union has condemned the use of anti-personnel landmines and we are supporting de-mining operations through an international ngo .
on the question of the indigenous peoples in the us , i am sure that the resolution which was primarily addressed to the us authorities will have been noted by them .
the commission delegation in moscow participated in a european union troika demarche on the eleventh of this month .
in the meantime , the conclusions of the general affairs council earlier this week have confirmed the message which i have given today .
the european union underlined its full support for the efforts of the united nations on the need for a tribunal to prosecute former khmer rouge leaders .
the commission will continue to raise issues regarding the rule of law , democratic principles and human rights with cambodian authorities through the ec-cambodia cooperation agreement which entered into force on 1 november last year .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 6.00 p.m .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the tisza and danube rivers are currently experiencing an environmental disaster on a huge scale .
this disaster has raised a number of important issues which concern us as a european union .
after all , this is a candidate country we are talking about , and this disaster is in addition to the existing concern about whether all candidate countries will comply with the eu environmental rules in time .
the delta of the danube is in danger .
as in spain in april 1998 , as in brittany and the vendee since last december , once again an exceptional natural site is under serious threat .
the european parliament is constantly drawing attention in its resolutions to this sort of danger , which threatens our environment , upsets our ecosystem and again weakens our populations .
this new disaster raises the problem of the integration of the environmental acquis communautaire in candidate countries .
the authorities in these counties , which are still very frail from an environmental point of view , need to overcome numerous obstacles .
the efforts already being made need to be stepped up .
mr president , when the donana disaster occurred , the non-governmental organisation , the world wide fund for nature , gave us a report on the number of reservoirs of this type in europe .
mr president , the commission ' s white paper on environmental liability , which was put forward several days ago - on 9 february to be precise - cites the tanker accident that contaminated and poisoned the french coast as the most recent incident in the series of environmental disasters caused by human beings .
in addition , i believe it is imperative that we draft and implement a directive on comprehensive environmental liability within the european union with all speed .
but early reports suggest that the poisoning of the lepos , tisza , somes and danube rivers is a very serious environmental tragedy .
as with all such disasters it is the long-term consequences that are the most pernicious .
that is certainly the view of my colleague , commissioner wallstrom , who i know would have wished to respond to this resolution in person today .
the reason she cannot do so is because , as some honourable members have pointed out , she is in hungary and romania to see for herself the extent of the damage and how best we can help the hungarian and romanian authorities to tackle the crisis .
the polluter-pays principle is a cornerstone of european union environmental policy .
it is mirrored in the international convention for the protection and sustainable use of the danube river and it should be applied in this case .
the union has mobilised some eur 20 million over the past seven years to support protection of the danube river basin .
the incident reinforces the case for a strengthening of european civil protection , along the lines suggested by president prodi in his recent speech and as suggested by one or two members today .
the debate is closed .
however , the measures set out in this resolution are derisory in terms of combating the policy of the major industrial groups which are shedding jobs and exacerbating unemployment .
moreover , it is all just words , because the socialist governments , which are now in a majority in europe , are just as incapable of taking action to prevent redundancies as right-wing governments .
the real problem is not finding a legal way of slightly complicating redundancy procedures , but banning them .
the swedish christian democrats would emphasise the value of the european union ' s and the european parliament ' s concentrating on their basic tasks and not undermining the value of their actions in these areas by also acting in areas outside their jurisdiction .
it would be appropriate , therefore , to begin by summarising the impact of tourism on the lives of union citizens and the desirability , in both economic and social terms , of promoting the european tourist industry .
it is an obvious truth , and one that is measurable by other economic and social indicators , that thanks to tourism , many mediterranean regions have undergone a radical change for the better in their economic and social system and the way of life of their inhabitants , and achieved a drastic reduction in the numbers emigrating .
this reminds us that tourism cannot be regarded as the poor countries ' petroleum industry , because it requires huge investment in structures , infrastructures , entrepreneurship , professional expertise , social services and training ; that the tourist industry is essential for the equilibrium of many regions as it provides a direct source of employment and a market for all local productive activities : agriculture , small firms in the industrial and craft sector , transport , services , retail sector , training , etc ; that the development of the community ' s tourist industry is closely linked to its sustainability with regard to the community objectives ; that the varied geography and historical , cultural and environmental heritage must be protected and exploited .
those figures are incomparably higher for some countries .
you see , the world tourism market is influenced every day and directly by the liberalisation of transport , its reduced cost , and competition from new centres of tourism outside europe .
furthermore , 90 % of businesses active in tourism are small or medium-sized , the very enterprises which form the living cells of our social and economic tissue , which are called upon to tackle the new obstacles and respond positively to the challenges of this global development .
the introduction of these new technologies is not a threat , but a new opportunity for our tourism because it offers the potential to provide new and innovative tourism products and services , which our tourism needs for an ever-lengthening tourism season , so that it can attract new customers and offer new and alternative forms of tourism .
the committee on women ' s rights paid particular attention to the issue of education , because according to official figures women account for 53 % of those engaged in tourism services , and in parallel , they form a majority among the working people most easily affected by social and economic change .
we must not forget that people working in tourism , especially women , encounter particular problems such as seasonal work , the need to renew contracts from one year to the next , social protection , lack of interest in continuing education , and reduced possibilities for development .
this does not follow automatically : often in the past a great deal of wealth has been accumulated thanks to the promotion of the tourist industry , without this being matched by an increase in employment .
we fully endorse the community measures which were recommended in the commission communication : advantageous taxation , that is , fiscal measures that offer conditions that are truly competitive in this market to the production sector - 95 % of which , i would point out , is made up of small and medium-sized businesses , which is equivalent to 2 million small and medium-sized businesses in the european tourism sector ; it awards special attention to vocational qualifications in the european union , and therefore to investing in training ; finally , it undertakes to make the job market transparent .
finally , we consider that tourism can , in addition to being a growth factor , be a factor for democracy , and in this regard we are asking the commission for a clear , conscious commitment .
the first is the inclusion of a legal base in the treaty .
this is something i favour , but currently as part of a minority in my own group .
the resolution contains many excellent ideas for the promotion of different types of tourism and for its increasing professionalism .
at the same time the commission is currently concerned about confining itself to core tasks .
mr president , i too believe that tourism has a very important role to play , not just in our european regions , but throughout the world , because it is a great asset when it comes to economic and social development .
but it is also a very vulnerable sector , as we recently saw with the oil slick .
but these regions need to take real account of positive and negative experiences in other tourist sectors .
i know that action is being taken against this so-called tourism elsewhere , but we must remember the european union ' s responsibility at this level .
finally , i should like to refer to the tourism which gives citizens contact with the outside world and democracy .
and eu funds have also made a considerable contribution to this in the past .
within these regions , a huge range of problems have their part to play .
as has already been said in this debate , three million potential new jobs within the next ten years is something well worth going for .
europe can no longer refuse to give the recognition - both political and in terms of policy-making - that the fastest growing sector of its economy deserves because of its economic and social position .
the importance to the economy of tourism and its growth potential is obviously one .
tourism contributes to regional development - in rural areas that are maybe trying to diversify - and tourism contributes to urban areas that aim to raise the profile of their own cultural heritage .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , today we are addressing a very important sector that directly involves over 10 million jobs in the european union and helps the more or less disadvantaged , island and remote areas to stand on their own feet .
and of course , tourism creates more jobs and contributes to the stimulation of employment , especially among society ' s more sensitive sections : women and young people .
in our view , the axes which could create a basis for its support are : the addition of material capital for tourism in the new review which will also constitute a legal base for the sector , the framing of a community tourism policy to support the sector without disturbing the operation of the tourism market , coordination of the tourism policy with other , parallel community policies which affect it directly or indirectly , a study of the sector , and the adoption of medium and long-term measures to enhance the competitiveness of tourism as a product .
mr president , commissioner , the new attitude adopted recently by the commission on this important economic activity is striking to those of us who , in recent years , have kept an eye on tourism and its place in the community framework .
tourism is a social , economic and cultural phenomenon which affects most european citizens , either as the recipients or the providers of a wide variety of services .
moreover , europe is still the main destination for tourists from third countries , even though it faces increasingly stiff competition and an increasingly diversified and attractive range of products .
since the treaties contain no specific legal basis for a real community tourism policy , the european union must help to improve and encourage cooperation in this sector , in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity , in order to take practical advantage of the potential which tourism offers in terms of employment .
vocational training and a mobile workforce are important tools in the strategy to fight unemployment in europe especially , as far as tourist service providers are concerned , in meeting multicultural demands and ensuring that services are tailored to customers .
it is therefore even more urgent that we acquire and disseminate managerial and technological skills in order to promote new means of production and a supply of tourism which reflects market developments as closely as possible .
as the report notes , the adoption by the member states of tax incentives for smes in order to reduce labour costs would be an excellent way of promoting growth in employment in labour-intensive sectors and , consequently , in the tourism sector .
the income and employment generated by tourism help enormously in reducing imbalances and encouraging their economies to converge with the average rate of growth in the community .
in addition , tourism can promote a certain cultural and economic rapprochement , insofar as it makes us more aware of other european cultures and thus helps respect for european ways of life to develop .
bearing in mind the failed efforts of the last decade , as highlighted by mr koch , does commissioner liikanen believe that he can do something during his term of office to ensure that the community dimension of tourism becomes a proper policy , given the importance that all the previous speakers have given to tourism in terms of employment ?
senior citizens are always on holiday , all year round , from 1 january through to 31 december because they do not work and do not have just one month off during the year .
on the other hand , we are aware that in practically all developed countries there is a lack of manpower in the tourism sector , which cannot be completely overcome , even in times of high unemployment .
in 1998 alone , total income from tourism and leisure activities was 450 billion schilling .
the dialogue with the two sides of industry , as well as with local authorities , must be stepped up .
i am glad to see that the commission and parliament are converging towards the same goal in this area .
an essential condition in order to make good progress in the work in this respect is that the cooperation with member states and the industry and with other partners be as fruitful as possible .
coordination of community tourism activities with other important issues such as regional policies , transport , employment , environment , culture and competition must strongly involve member states and the tourism industry itself .
quality products in order to improve competitiveness , sustainability in order to protect resources and innovation in particular through the use of information technologies .
direct business to consumer contact will supplement , and sometimes also reduce , the currently , nearly exclusive business to business relationship .
the implementation of the directive on statistics aims at improving the knowledge of market structures and trends in european tourism and its industry .
a report on the work to be undertaken , together with the member states and the tourism industry should be available in about two years from now .
mr medina ortega asked me some very concrete questions .
as regards the role of tourism policy in the communities concerned , we must understand that many policy sectors have a huge impact on the framework on tourism .
i have been working now in all industrial and service sectors , but when you look at the organisational structure in tourism it is almost impossible .
it is very difficult for a commissioner to try to work in an area where there are dozens of different organisations whose representativeness needs to be ascertained every time .
to strengthen the role of tourism in europe , the organisations should do what has happened in most economic sectors : seek better focus , better coordination and concentrated activities .
then we could have a solid dialogue in our everyday work .
tourism is also in the list of subjects which do not figure as new areas of competence for the eu .
the general agreement between both institutions in this field must not keep the commission from following the most pragmatic approach in achieving our common objectives .
the debate is closed .
adoption of the minutes of the previous sitting the minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed .
strasbourg , 17 february " .
mr president , i would like to request a correction to the minutes regarding the vote on amendment no 5 of the swoboda report .
in any event , the bureau will consider your suggestion . ( the minutes were approved ) vote mr president , we should like to request that the last sentence of amendment no 2 which reads : ' also calls on the member states to promote tourism for the elderly ' be incorporated into paragraph 25 , which deals specifically with social tourism , after : ' tourism for organised social groups ... ' .
i believe we need more decentralisation , more regionalism and less bureaucratic and centralist decision-making , especially in tourism policy .
mr president , the subsidiarity principle is one of the fundamental principles underlying cooperation in the european union .
it is of inestimable importance that people in europe , as well as in the rest of the world , should have the opportunity to experience each other ' s ways of ordering their lives and their societies .
the commission is firmly convinced of the need to prepare a new proposal on developing the postal sector .
the date set for completing the next phase , which the commission intends to keep to , is 1 january 2003 .
the proposal will take account of the studies and , in particular , the need to maintain a universal service , to develop efficient safeguards for consumers , to create a climate favourable to new jobs and to solve any problems relating to competition .
the role of liberalisation in modernising and improving postal services throughout the union with the help of new technologies will be examined in order to identify potential benefits for the industry as a whole .
the aim is to ensure that the internal market in postal services functions smoothly in the interests of consumers and businesses throughout the european union .
it is alleged in a circular that the price of postage has gone up by 59 per cent since liberalisation in 1993 .
that is true as long as account is taken of the 20 per cent of the total postal services market where , in practice , there is still a monopoly , that is where the state is the only player .
however , since commissioner monti is here , i would like him to take a message back to commissioner bolkestein telling him what the postal services directive was about .
these issues were fundamental in that report and they should be fundamental in any forthcoming directive .
the postal service is also the bus service .
the postal service is also the social service .
the postal service is also the doctor .
mr president , we are in favour of liberalising the union ' s postal services .
i have found a number of studies which were commissioned by the european commission at the time , and i am also coming across documents from post-europe which claims that these studies are inaccurate and that the basis on which these were carried out is incorrect .
the commission is committed to a universal postal service , as the european parliament has shown on several occasions , the postal service is actually , as some speakers have already mentioned , a key factor in social and territorial cohesion .
in this connection i should like to ask one of our swedish meps for an opinion of the study which has been carried out and which shows that in fact in the most remote areas of sweden the postal service was rather poor in terms of distribution .
the economic value of the postal service was recognised by the treaty of amsterdam and we consider that it goes far beyond the distribution of mail .
this resolution of 14 january 1999 required that , prior to undertaking any liberalisation of this key sector , involving 1.7 million employees after all , the commission should provide impact studies for this liberalisation .
we shall not accept a date for the liberalisation of all activities in the postal sector until the commission has offered us a guarantee that the universal service will be integrated into this directive and that the public postal service will be maintained in the states which consider this service essential to the citizen .
it is really not possible to see how the commission could by the end of 1998 , as stipulated by article 7 of the directive , have evaluated the effects of a text which came into force in february of the same year .
for its part , the european parliament , which had fought hard to ensure that the 1997 directive was balanced and respected the requirements of a universal public service , is rather satisfied to see that the compromise it obtained then is proving to be tenable .
today , following the 1997 compromise , member states can give public monopolies responsibility for the postal service involving mail and parcels whose distribution cost is less than five times the basic tariff , with a weight of less than 350 grammes .
it may be supposed , for example , as commissioner bolkestein gave us to understand during his hearing on 6 september last year , that the commission might propose reducing these limits to 50 grams and two and a half times the basic tariff .
in fact , article 86 of the ec treaty , formerly article 90 , stipulates that services of general economic interest are subject to the rules on competition only insofar as the application of such rules does not obstruct the performance of the particular tasks assigned to them .
mr president , we are currently in the first phase of transposition of directive 97 / 67 / ce on postal services and i am terribly afraid that a new phase of liberalisation might be reflected in a significant reduction in the public service offered .
as you know , in our country , each village has its own local post office or at least a post box , with a collection every day .
but the 200 grammes that make up the difference will be seized upon by many private and therefore profitable bodies .
so , once again , why not leave things as they are and allow the public service to fund itself and to guarantee the annual excess cost of its operations in the public interest , valued in france , by senator larcher , as it happens , at ff 8 billion ?
a small segment of our market has been taken over by private operators .
in rural areas , for many years , even before the irish free state came into existence , we sometimes had this service of a post office .
it should go hand in hand with our postal services in rural areas .
the scottish parliament too recently had a debate with particular reference to the role which post offices , especially in rural areas , play in service provision and the sustainability of rural communities .
post office outlets in scotland , as we have heard , handle much more than just mail delivery .
if a rural post office closes , usually with the only local shop attached , then a major threat to community sustainability and to social inclusion can result .
we know that until the year 2002 it will not be possible to fill some 1.2 million jobs in the field of electronic commerce because we do not have the skilled workers needed for this market .
of course the existing rural post offices also have a strategic advantage , because they are so densely distributed throughout europe .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , postal services , just like any european public service , contribute to the social cohesion of community territory under the terms of article 16 of the treaty of amsterdam .
the european parliament was confident of reconciling openness to competition with the obligation to provide a universal service in a manner which safeguards jobs .
by defining a sector reserved for public postal services , on the basis of weight and price limits , the postal service directive would clear the way for controlled liberalisation in phases .
the sudden reduction of these limits poses a threat to the balance between the obligation to provide a public service and economic viability for postal services .
mr president , i rise as other scottish members of this house , representatives of scotland , to protest against anything that lead to a decline in the quality of rural life in remote parts .
the postal service and the post office are a vital feature of life in rural communities throughout europe and not least in scotland .
the message that is coming very clearly from all sides of the house to the commission today is that the commission should tread warily .
the commission should not , for example , take a stepwise jump from 350 grammes to , as some have suggested , as low as 50 grammes .
mr president , the only way to guarantee a high-quality universal postal service is to keep this as a public service .
i think the consumer can decide for himself and define in advance what he needs .
what has happened over the past 200 years is that the time it takes for a letter to go from munich to brussels has increased fivefold .
so , yes to liberalisation , but let us also think about the limits to liberalisation , rapidly create reasonable conditions in europe and submit the appropriate study to the commission .
for the moment , it appears that , in the only country where liberalisation has taken place - sweden - there has been a 59 % increase in the price of postal services .
we do not know what will happen in each of the countries where liberalisation is going to take place .
it is likely that postal liberalisation will lead to greater cost differences between countries , which will no doubt have implications for competition , which will not only affect the cost of the postal service but also the establishment of installations .
i would therefore advise commissioner monti to deal with the issue of postal liberalisation , taking strict account of free competition , because i believe that this will probably become a very worrying issue in the future .
mr president , the postal service is not a normal service provider like a hairdresser ' s or a fitness centre .
the common market in postal services will be created on the terms of the marketeers .
in the hills and glens of scotland and the rural borders and central belt , on the beautiful but fragile islands of the hebrides , orkney and shetland , there is real concern at possibly losing this essential service .
it has been calculated that the actual cost of carrying a letter from edinburgh to the central highlands is about ten times that of carrying the same letter across london .
it is not to oppose liberalisation to ask that it be done in a way that takes account of these factors and allows the continuation of a universal and affordable postal service .
mr president , i consider it a privilege that i am replacing my colleague , commissioner bolkestein , on the occasion of such a high-quality debate on postal services .
i will try to respond to the debate on the basis of information provided by commissioner bolkestein .
the scheduled date of 1 january 2003 for implementation of the next steps remains feasible .
we can see in the incumbent operators , in public post offices , a change of culture that i believe nobody can consider negative if the current trend towards concentrating on customers ' needs continues .
we are all aware of the extremely important aspect of social and structural cohesion , especially in the sparsely populated rural areas , one of which has been particularly strongly and overwhelmingly represented in the debate this morning .
in the postal sector the first phase is already in progress , as the universal service providers have embarked on a process of modernisation .
they have all been available on the commission ' s internet website since august 1999 and the commission is willing to provide copies to anybody who is interested .
the studies have been the object of some criticism , especially on the part of the public postal services .
the examples of liberalisation and competition in air transport and in telephony services in europe show that citizens have benefited from this .
i can only say again that commissioner bolkestein will be able to address all the concerns on monday , in the appropriate committee , more competently and in much more detail .
the debate is closed .
postal services do not provide simply a postal delivery service but also a social service .
liberalisation of postal services would mean that the state could give each pensioner an extra itl 10 million a year so that a million pensioners would see their pensions doubled .
mr president , i voted in favour of the resolution on european postal services with all the more satisfaction since it reiterates once again the position i have always defended in this house , which is the need for a high quality universal service , particularly ensuring this service in the least populated regions and rural regions , and there are some even in my small country , the grand duchy of luxembourg .
nonetheless , liberalisation , which has a lot to offer to the consumer in terms of the price and the quality of the service , especially in the telephone sector , must cease as soon as the service provided becomes inadequate or disappears , when the firms profiting from liberalisation are not making money .
if they cannot be obliged to provide what the state monopoly was able to guarantee , particularly thanks to its obligation to provide a universal service , then the public service must be protected .
statement by the president ladies and gentlemen , as you know , on 22 february , eta struck again in a brutal attack in spain with the murder of fernando buesa blanco , the general secretary of the socialist party of vizcaya and the spokesman of the socialist party of the basque parliament , and jorge diez elorza , his bodyguard .
these men paid with their lives for their commitment to democracy .
i would ask you , ladies and gentlemen , to observe one minute ' s silence in memory of fernando buesa blanco and jorge diez elorza . ( the house rose and observed a minute ' s silence ) madam president , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , i want to thank you for your statement last tuesday and for your words today in memory of fernando buesa blanco .
this process may take a long time but it is unstoppable and , what is more , desirable .
in a debate within the socialist party on the irish process , someone said : " in the end , the key to the irish solution was that everyone involved had the following thought : does it really matter whether we are irish or british ?
on the contrary , we must take strength from knowing that the only social division which exists in the basque country is the abyss which separates those who kill , and those who support and express understanding for the latter , from the vast majority of the basque people who simply want to live in peace and freedom . ( loud applause ) madam president , on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party , i must indicate my complete and categorical condemnation of the terrorist attack on 22 february in vitoria which took the lives of the socialist mp and spokesman in the basque parliament , fernando buesa , and his bodyguard , jorge diez .
we pray that these are the last victims in a process which , as you said , madam president , has seen much barbarism .
we are not just confined to brussels or strasbourg .
let us all go back to our respective nations and shout from the rooftops that our belief in democracy and our indignation are not just words , but a demonstration of our actual political commitment .
fourthly , we express our repulsion at the fact that this dual assassination was intended to directly destroy the political process aimed at achieving peace in the basque country .
we , euskal herritarrok , have regretted many times the loss of human lives .
twenty years have passed since the northern ireland question was first raised in this parliament .
may i ask : quousque tandem - noiz arte ?
madam president , thank you for giving me the floor .
i wonder if you are now in a position to confirm to parliament that the quaestors have agreed in principle that the register should be published on the internet and , if so , whether you will personally set them a deadline - perhaps 1 april - for doing so .
in this context , activity-based management is the key to ensuring coherence between objectives , actions and resources .
we are going to create a management and control system in every directorate-general .
in fact , the commission desires this reform in order to become a model of excellence for the whole of europe and the world .
i would stress that this style of debate is something very new and , in my opinion , it has forced us to radically change our way of thinking as well .
we may need to come back to you and ask for additional resources to fund the new tasks which have been assigned to us and those which will be assigned to us in the future .
the commission wishes to be judged on results and results alone - on what we achieve .
parliament and the council are also called upon to take up all the challenges presented by these reforms .
i am glad to be here together with president prodi and my colleague , michele schreyer , to present the white paper adopted by the commission this morning : " reforming the commission " .
together with romano prodi , i express my gratitude to this house and to the very large number of people who have put time and effort into giving us their constructive responses .
the white paper puts reform in its proper political context .
the treaties have been revised , new managerial tasks have been attributed by this parliament and by the council to the commission , and many other changes of great significance have occurred in our union , in our continent and in the world .
all institutions in the european union will have to face up to the issues posed by the reform and face up to them honestly and responsibly .
i do not make this point because of any desire in the prodi commission to retreat from activities or responsibilities .
that means closing any significant gap between obligations and operational resources either by reducing activities or by increasing means or by a combination of both .
in each of the three pillars of reform , the active support and cooperation of this house will be absolutely vital .
and finally , in the crucial area of financial management where the court of auditors , the committee of independent experts and other external and internal analyses have strongly advised radical change , the support of this house in implementing the recommendations for full security of money and value for money will be of prime importance .
i have no doubt that we will do that on several occasions in the coming months and years , and i certainly look forward to the questions of honourable members this afternoon .
recently , the immunity of a former commissioner was lifted and proceedings are currently pending before a judge in brussels on the basis that brussels is the seat of the community institutions .
in the particular case that the honourable member has in mind , not only did the commission easily and quickly come to a decision to waive the immunity of a former commissioner , but the former commissioner herself advised the commission of her desire that the immunity should be lifted .
i can see the complexities that concern the honourable member , but i say to him that in the last five years there have been ten cases in which there have been requests from national legal authorities for the immunity of 26 officials to be lifted , and every single one of those requests has been met , and met with alacrity .
and i make the point , before i move to my questions , that what happens concerning the staff regulations in the commission has a fundamental role on our responsibility also as employers of staff because , of course , the european parliament staff operate under the same conditions .
and if we look at the original proposals - and i suspect that we will see the same in the new ones - it was not until 2002 that we were going to complete overall reform of the staff regulations .
indeed , it was not until 2001 that some of the key elements of appraisal were going to be introduced .
on the second part of mr harbour ' s question , he will see in the course of this year how with greater precision we will be showing how the application more extensively of information technology will facilitate change , not only in terms of the working practices and conditions of the staff but in the operation of the commission , as the president briefly outlined in his statement .
i would like to make one last point in answer to mr harbour .
i wish i could honestly say to him that we will be compiling and providing in the form of proposals communications before 2001 and certainly be putting them into effect before 2002 , but he will be aware there are legally required consultation procedures and periods which we must respect .
i would like everything to happen much more quickly .
i hope that , in terms of the degree of cooperation and partnership that we can enjoy in all aspects of this policy with the council and with parliament , not only will we get rapid implementation of policy development in the most effective way , but that we will be able to do it by coordination at the right time which will produce the maximum benefit for the union .
secondly , on the question of ex ante and ex post auditing and procedures , do i understand correctly - and i have not had the opportunity to wade into the detail of the paper - that the unanimous decision of the commission is indeed to empower the directorates-general to liberate them from the ex ante visae system but to put in their place a strong ex post and independent and centralised audit system ?
it will not be just one of the screenings that the commission has periodically undertaken but a very thorough and sharp review within directorates-general and across the commission for which we have established a mechanism for reviewing the demands on us and the means that we have to meet those demands .
i would emphasise , too , that the intention is not only to liberate the personnel of the commission - that is certainly an objective - but it is simultaneously to " responsibilise " - it is an appalling word but we all know what it means .
in undertaking such a development in our organisation i am certain that we can match or even advance upon the success and increase in job motivation which has come as a consequence of similar developments in several administrations , both in the public sector and in the private sector , in the last decade or so .
i think that the end of the centralised system will certainly not result in any relaxation of effective financial control but will increase its effectiveness and its relationship to operational tasks .
so , the changes that we seek to make - as i say consistent with the very strong and clear recommendations of the committee of independent experts - are not negative in any way at all .
there will also be evidence of the fact that we have taken heed of the representations made in this house particularly in the committee on budgetary control , and that is significant in respect of the use of ex ante visas in directorates-general .
if that is felt in a directorate-general to be a relevant and effective way of enhancing financial control , the ex ante system can be used .
but , on this issue , i do not see any room for soft law which is why in the transition period there will be total adherence to the current financial regulation until that law is changed by due democratic process in this house and in the council .
two other points i must make , because this is an essential question central to reform .
irresponsibility because the feeling exists in some quarters that there will not be sufficient control and discipline .
in the course of the coming years i will be continuing the practice i have already started , together with several of my commission colleagues obviously , of very profound discussions with the administrations of the incoming new member states .
the other question i would like to ask is on the audit progress committee .
in order however to strip back those obligations to their minimum , we are not just talking about it ; we will be appointing in the very near future a deputy secretary-general , an additional deputy secretary-general with the specific mandate and mission of identifying best practices and spreading them throughout the commission and of ensuring a radical reduction in the procedures which generate so much paper , so much bureaucracy and i must say so much frustration , not only for the citizens and businesses of the union but for the people who work for the commission too .
much has happened since the last time i was here to talk about foreign and security policy issues in our continent .
this afternoon i should like to share with you some ideas , particularly on the common foreign and security policy .
in recent months , since the last time i appeared before you , important events have occurred in this house and also in the european union .
chechnya has also been one of our main concerns and i will speak briefly on this at the end , in the light of an important conversation which i had this morning with the council of europe representative , mr alvaro gil-robles , on his recent visit to the region .
however , i realise that you asked me here to talk to you more specifically about foreign policy and particularly security policy in europe since helsinki .
this basically involves relations between the european union and the atlantic alliance and relations between the european union and those countries which , although geographically in europe , are not part of the european union , or at least not at the moment .
i will restrict myself to these three points in order to bring you up to date with events .
firstly , with regard to the decision-making bodies , the political and security committee met for the first time this morning , 1 march 2000 .
therefore , two months after the helsinki declaration and decision , a political and security committee meeting has taken place for the first time within the european union .
the fifteen countries have appointed diplomatic experts at ambassador level in order to tackle one of the most important issues which we will face in the coming months .
secondly , the military committee , which represents the various chiefs of staff of the fifteen countries , will hold its first meeting on 7 march which will be just over two months after the helsinki declaration .
mozambique is surely an excellent current example of how intervention may be required in terms of military logistics , not for military purposes , but with strictly humanitarian ends .
in less than two months we have established the mechanics for cooperation with the commission .
i must thank commissioner patten who is here today for his support and the tremendous energy that he has also invested in trying to ensure that all these issues could be settled in such a short time .
this is a major operation and an important objective but i can say that we are in a position to meet this challenge which the heads of state and government posed in helsinki .
on monday , just two days ago , in sintra , a beautiful city very close to lisbon , the defence ministers of the fifteen member states met and took some important decisions towards implementing this headline goal defined in helsinki .
the proposed timetable is tight but essential and will require great determination from all of us , including this house .
before 24 march we will therefore have established this timetable so that the general affairs council can , on this date , do its job and do it well .
secondly , we must look at the capacity which each country has so that this total force of 60 000 soldiers is distributed in an orderly and efficient manner between the fifteen countries .
thirdly , we must look at the differences between the headline goal and what each country can provide .
i would like to say that in the meantime there will be at least four european councils , those in lisbon and feira and two during the french presidency .
the european union must carry out this whole operation in collaboration with the third countries to which i have referred which , although geographically in europe , are not members of the european union .
in this respect we are also working closely and positively with the commission .
however , before this happens , i must tell you about a telephone conversation which i had a few hours ago with the council of europe representative on the subject of chechnya .
madam president , this is the second time we have had occasion to enter into discussion with the high representative javier solana , and i would like to begin by addressing a few words to the commission ' s representative , chris patten .
i hope , commissioner patten , that you will still have the opportunity to evaluate our discussion .
mr solana , you mentioned sintra .
however , the rhetoric our governments in the countries of the european union are using must be followed up with deeds .
several governments are cutting back on their budgets and also their defence capability .
please encourage the governments in the countries of the european union to put their money where their mouth is , so that we are not left with rhetoric and less security at the end of the day , but rather we have a more secure europe . ( applause ) now our american friends have expressed some concerns , and i emphasise " our american friends " for we do want a north atlantic alliance between the usa and europe that operates in an amicable manner and on the basis of equal rights .
for only if we pull together within the european union and live in harmony will we also be able to set an example for peace and the peaceful resolution of conflicts outside the european union .
my friend jacques poos will be talking about this on behalf of my group .
the kfor forces have made , and are making , an invaluable contribution , but tanks and fire trenches cannot deal with political problems and ethnic conflicts in the longer term .
this is therefore a test of credibility for the union ' s common foreign and security policy .
when it comes to the balkans and kosovo , i also hope that the council will comply with parliament ' s and , as i understand it , also the commission ' s demands for a multiannual budget for operations in kosovo .
mr president , mr solana , you have the full support and confidence of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party , but we would remind you of the huge responsibility which now rests upon your shoulders .
you are building castles in the air and your route map up to the year 2003 calls for 60 000 soldiers .
i am not a warmonger , but if we do not have soldiers to stop the criminals in kosovo , then what is the point in having soldiers at all ?
he is not always right , but in this case he is .
if a civilian task force can , at the same time , intervene before and during a conflict and if we fail to take that step , we are behaving like children who like to play at sending in soldiers , but who are incapable of sending in civilians .
as long as we do not have a balance between the military and the civilian elements , we shall not be credible .
what my group deplores , however , mr solana , is that you seem to wish to fulfil your important responsibilities in far too unilateral a fashion .
first of all , you only deal with the security considerations in their military dimension , by making virtual deadlock with regard to what we believe is essential , that is to say , a major policy of prevention , very much upstream of the risks of conflict , that would in itself deserve a common strategy at union level .
finally and in particular , we hardly hear you speak at all about the other part of your mission : the foreign policy of the union .
in the balkans , a year after the nato bombings started and in the light of the significant crisis in mitrovica , are you prepared to carry out a critical evaluation of the whole strategy implemented in this region in order to learn some useful lessons ?
they call into question the ambitions that we set ourselves with regard to this part of the world and , consequently , the changes to be advocated in the current world order , or rather , disorder .
my group would like our dialogue , our cooperation and , where appropriate , our political confrontations , to be included too , and primarily , among these issues .
we believe that poor old europe can only speak with one voice to say nothing or , and this is possibly more serious , that it can only resolve its diplomatic contradictions by simply tagging along with american politics .
in short , what purpose can an armed force have in the absence of any policy ?
on behalf of the combined european right , i must say to you , mr solana , as high representative for common foreign and security policy , we do not have confidence in you .
you say that you are against war , but as secretary-general of nato you started a war .
today , even mr cohn-bendit - and that is saying something - can gauge the results of the disastrous policy that he so wished for .
we also have several questions to ask you that show our concern , that is the least one can say .
first of all , in your view , does the common foreign and security policy aim to protect the security of the member states of the union , as one might think , or do you recognise their right to intervene anywhere in the world ?
in kosovo , it was for humanitarian reasons that we systematically destroyed all the civilian infrastructure in serbia .
finally , you spoke about using the great resources of crisis management .
not to make war , of course , but to protect peace .
mr solana , these questions convey our concern .
mr president , i too welcome the presence of the high representative and his availability to answer members ' questions this time round .
the portuguese presidency has made great progress in establishing a series of provisional or interim bodies .
in record time it has organised this informal meeting of defence ministers and has highlighted a whole series of milestones on the long road towards this common foreign and security policy .
this meeting was based on two documents , one being a british document on the headline goals and the other a document on the permanent military bodies of the european union .
mr solana , as the rapporteur of the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , i shall limit my speech to those subjects .
you have , mr solana , heard the force of the criticisms made by the members of parliament who do not accept the appalling situations in kosovo , chechnya and elsewhere .
and today , as far as you are concerned , i acknowledge your efforts to build a european security and defence policy that is worthy of the name and which has not hitherto existed .
but i do give you credit for your intense work , the number of meetings held , your efforts to create a rapid intervention force , your specific efforts to prevent crises , to manage them or stop them through civilian means and , if necessary , by military means .
i should like to take advantage of your presence here today to ask you two questions of the " what is to be done " variety .
i believe that the italian president of the council mentioned this point at your meeting on 24 february .
mr solana can play an important role in this .
mr solana must keep europe awake without nodding off himself .
in kosovo , we stepped in with military means , having been unable to prevent the war in ex-yugoslavia .
as representatives from the group of the greens / european free alliance , we all come from nations and regions which have never gone out to war with foreign countries , but we always needed to fight those who came to oppress us .
at the moment , europe does not have a foreign policy to speak of .
mr president , allow me to start with the conquest of kosovo .
all the signs point towards a second round of attacks on yugoslavia and this is confirmed by the kla attacks on serbs in mitrovica , the attempt to annex three towns in southern serbia to kosovo , the promotion of the independence of kosovo , the fact that two thousand men have been channelled into kosovo via greece , despite the objections of the greek people and , at the same time , intense efforts by nato and the european union to overturn the legitimate government of yugoslavia .
commissioner , mr solana , there is no doubt that you are acting quickly and forcefully and that you have made great progress in certain areas .
my first question , mr solana and commissioner , is to establish whether , together , you have framed strategies that will , at least gradually , lead to the creation of a process that integrates the common foreign and security policy within the community process .
we know the strength that they have acquired over these forty years of building the community .
at the same time , an appeal has also been made in broad terms to increase the defence budgets .
i think that this is to be welcomed , but this appeal does not really distinguish very clearly between petersberg tasks and wider , collective defence tasks .
high representative , you have efficiently drawn our attention to the progress we made in this field between amsterdam and helsinki and to certain decisions which have already been taken since helsinki , such as the establishment of the three committees and , of course , the decision to provide for the deployment of a 50-60 000-strong military force .
however , this increase in pace accentuates the lack of coordination between these decisions and the on-going intergovernmental conference even further .
mr president , mr solana , commissioner patten , the most recent steps taken by the council on the european security and defence policy front are , to my mind , in flagrant contravention of the principle of democratic control with regard to military operations .
the second way in which the sintra meeting fell short was that although there are now efficient military decision-making structures , the concept of non-military crisis management is still completely nebulous .
mr solana , the war in kosovo and the continuing crisis , have served to reveal a european public opinion that is aware that defending the fundamental values that gave rise to the european union , throughout the world , should no longer continue to rest solely on the shoulders of the president of the united states of america and that the time has come to share the burden , which our american friends have constantly been demanding since europe became a world economic power .
over the last year , the member states of the union have , naturally , decided to implement specific measures designed to strengthen the operational capability of their armed forces and the informal summit in sintra , held the day before yesterday in your presence , has just confirmed the main trends .
the first question concerns the training of this rapid intervention force of 60 000 men , which , as you have said , is likely to be deployed to perform peace-keeping and peace-building missions and be capable of maintaining them on a long-term basis , if necessary .
my first question , mr solana , will be simple and more direct , perhaps , than those of my colleagues who have spoken before me .
my second question is of a more technical nature , but it is important for the responsibilities of the atlantic alliance and the western european union to be transferred to the european union as harmoniously as possible .
you have told us , in this regard , that three committees are being set up , a political committee and a security committee , which started up today , and a military committee .
you then spoke of their relations with the third country members of the atlantic alliance or associate members of the western european union but which are not members of the european union .
mr president , secretary-general , as you can tell , the members of this house have listened with great interest to your information on the result of the informal meeting of defence ministers in sintra and its significance in the european integration process in terms of security and defence .
accordingly , i would like to make a few observations , not about the security framework of tomorrow , but about security in the balkan region today .
coordinator hombach and commissioner patten are working hard to push through the solidarity pact .
two weeks ago in strasbourg , we also talked extensively to commissioner patten about relations with macedonia .
i think that the new government can also be of help in the political relations with belgrade .
if this happens , the united states ' government and the british government have given it to be understood that they will resort to military intervention .
i would also like to know whether , in this context , it would not be possible to do something to induce the iraqi government to take a humanitarian step and to release some information regarding the 615 missing kuwaitis , or to set them free if this is within their power .
mr president , high representative , there is an interesting debate going on in france at present about some of the things the prime minister said when he visited israel .
the debate is interesting in that one of the questions it addresses is : who is a terrorist ?
surely a point of controversy between a prime minister and a president about an issue as important as this , at a flash point so close to europe , ought to be irrelevant in view of the fact that europe as a whole should have a position in this regard .
therefore , i would also like to ask you in this connection , what you intend to do , for example , when it comes to the middle east - unfortunately peace will be slower in coming than we would like it to be , particularly a lasting peace - in order to expound and assert a european position , and to make it plain for all to see in this important region .
i therefore believe that the european union - in addition to the military aspects , which i would like to place great emphasis on , particularly when it comes to peace in this region , which is not a million miles away from us - should have a clear and unequivocal position .
i hope that , once the other important issues have been dealt with , you will also find the time to see to it that a common european position is enunciated .
as we sit here , hundreds of thousands of people are in enormous peril from the floods in mozambique .
the level of practical assistance from the community and from the member states has been pathetic .
of course , there is a relationship between military resources and humanitarian assistance , and there are serious military deficiencies in the armed forces of many european countries .
i have not yet heard a convincing security-policy explanation of why the european union needs to establish autonomous , decision-making capabilities for the use of military forces outside of the nato structures unless it is to create bodies which will rival nato .
after all , the eu member states are either full members of nato or sit around the euro atlantic partnership council table .
finally , mr solana , i would just like to ask you what point there is in having the much heralded policy planning and early warning cell in the council secretariat if still we are taken by surprise by yet another humanitarian catastrophe .
mr president , high representative , commissioner , with regard to the war in chechnya , we have all noted the particularly restrained and almost accommodating reaction of the international community in general and of the european union in particular .
the war in chechnya proves , if proof were necessary , that the duty or the right to intervene stops at the borders of the great powers .
some of us here are passionately in favour of creating a distinctly european security organisation to defend peace in the world .
however , we note that you have said nothing to us about the fact that the role of the security council , as referred to at helsinki , was contested recently .
mr president , i seem to recall from my study of european history , that the 1809 convention of sintra was a controversial peace agreement which probably lengthened rather than shortened the napoleonic wars and nearly cost the duke of wellington his job .
that said , i would like to congratulate the high representative on the progress that has been made so far .
to what extent are we going to get some form of convergence on defence expenditure , because some member states spend considerably more than others .
they are very static in their military forces , and unsuitable for this sort of warfare .
i strongly support the decisions taken at sintra .
the creation of the interim structures and the plans that are now being put into place to provide the military capacity for achieving eu policy objectives are positive steps in the right direction .
however , while all these developments are indeed welcome , i would like to address a matter which i have raised in this house on previous occasions .
we have a lot of proud talk about 60 000 troops being prepared in 60 days to be available for a whole year , but we currently have crises in europe and on the borders of europe and elsewhere which this union is failing abjectly to deal with .
mr president , mr solana , i don ' t want to repeat everything that has already been said here .
kfor could step up its presence in mitrovica and be stationed in crisis areas of kosovo if its current tasks were to be taken on by policemen .
i believe that is what our task ought to have been , and you could play a part in this !
i tend to think that maybe mr van den bos is right that i would need the capacity of the angels to answer so many questions in such a short period of time , but i will try .
we are in the business of creating capabilities that , put together in case of need , can avoid tragedies such as those we have recently experienced .
it is very important to be talking about prevention .
i can tell you , and you know , that prevention capabilities exist already in the union .
the european union is going to be , at the end of the day , the most important group of countries able to face problems related to crisis matters , from the humanitarian crises to force deployment .
in a very few days eurocorps built up by european countries is going to be deployed to kosovo not to walk around , but to prevent people from killing one another .
military personnel in our countries are waiting for a crisis .
policemen in our countries are working 24 hours a day , and for governments it is difficult sometimes to find the appropriate police force to be deployed .
now , mr haarder asked about the risk of a rift between the european union and nato .
i do not see why we should become estranged or split or damage the capacity that we have to continue working together .
the people who are there already with their white uniforms , the white uniforms of the european union have been deployed in bosnia for many , many years and are now deployed in kosovo .
let me say two things only .
the troika visited the middle east at the beginning of the year .
the european union , the european countries are doing their best to continue cooperating in the peace process and offering to help all parties when it is required in order to implement the agreements that will be reached .
many questions have been asked about what i think about the igc , security , defence , etc .
i do not know how to answer that question .
let me answer the specific questions about the statement that has been made by the minister for defence of france about 0.7 .
i think this is an objective that the countries have to decide if they want to do it or not .
in reply to the question about article v , we have two article vs as you know .
one article v for those countries that belong to the alliance and the other article v for the countries that belong to the weu .
the weu is going to transfer its assets to the european union , or certain parts .
as you know , there are countries in the european union which are not ready and they will not accept a transfer of article v , brussels article , into the european union framework and therefore we cannot do it .
it is much more important to see what the country has done .
i would like to say that as regards the status of those countries which are not members of the european union but which are members of the alliance and eventually will be members of the european union , we would like to get them involved .
mr galeote quecedo asked about the diplomatic corps in the european union .
it is working well and i very much hope that it will be a great success for the countries of the region and also for the european union .
you know very well that helsinki took a very important decision , a very important decision concerning chechnya .
we will have again a meeting with the united states the following day and then we will have a trilateral meeting , the united states and european union and russia together in which , as you can imagine , the number one item on the agenda is going to be chechnya .
let me end - i do not want to take up your time any longer - by saying that i am ready to come here whenever you want but i would prefer , if it is possible , to have sessions in which we concentrate on some topics and develop them to the fullest , because if not , we have so many topics , so many issues that it is very difficult to really treat them in depth .
helsinki was in december and our prime ministers and our heads of state asked us to do something very important for the first time .
i would just like to say a word or two myself on that particular subject .
many people will argue that of course all that is required in europe is for us to make better use of our existing resources but i suspect there will be a growing debate in our own countries in the member states about whether that really is enough , about whether that is going to secure the sort of security policy which we wish to be more responsible for in our own union .
i would just like to say a word about the non-military aspects of our security policy , of conflict prevention and crisis management .
we will be bringing forward to the council before lisbon our proposals on a rapid reaction facility so that we can provide assistance where it is required , not in months or years , but in days or weeks .
additionally , and this is for me the most important area of all , an area where we are breaking new ground , we will , soon after we have put forward our proposals on a rapid reaction facility , be bringing forward proposals as well on non-military headline goals .
it is , i repeat , breaking new ground but it is very important that we do it for a number of reasons and policing in kosovo , policing elsewhere , is the most dramatic and obvious example .
i grew up as a kid hoping i would be allowed to stay up on saturday evenings in order to see a television programme about a community policeman called dixon of dock green .
i have just been writing a report before i came to this job , and writing a very good report , just to respond to my honourable friend , on policing in part of my own country .
but that sort of approach to policing alas is not what is required in kosovo .
we have armed forces , we have all got experience of training community police officers .
one thing i would advise him to do is to listen to radio 4 at the end of march to the first reith lecture where he will hear the commissioner for external relations giving an extremely moving and convincing lecture on this whole subject .
we will be producing a communication shortly on an issue which this parliament feels passionately about , that is , how we can ensure that election observation is conducted as comprehensively and sensibly as possible without diminishing the integrity of the institutions which do it .
i would very much hope that we can all live on a planet which is also inhabited by the european council , the general affairs council and ecofin .
all on the same political planet together and making sure that there is some harmony between what we promised the world and what we can actually deliver .
i have heard promises that we will establish a stability pact in the southern caucuses .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the scholars of ancient greece bequeathed to us the assumption that there is a natural link between equality and justice .
as man is given to excess in everything , when he can be , he is excessive in his inequality " .
modernity and the system of democracy in which it exists is based on the idea of a social contract , a form of association which , in the words of rousseau , " defends and protects the person and property of each member with all common force and according to which each member , in association with the others , nevertheless only obeys himself and remains as free as before .
in post-modern society , now that we have declared that rousseau ' s social contract is no longer sufficient , we must call for a new form of contract , one which is richer and more enriching because it is more in tune with human nature , with its natural polarity between men and women .
we are living in an era in which politics has become debased and in which democracies suffer from a lack of political commitment on the part of their citizens .
globalisation has various implications for democracy .
under the portuguese presidency , and bearing in mind the efforts and the contributions made by the various member states , the lisbon special summit , which will be held on the theme ' employment , economic reform and social cohesion : towards a new europe of innovation and knowledge ' , seeks to counter these risks , which have historically always been more serious for women , particularly in those areas most directly related to the specific theme proposed .
we are therefore seeking to overhaul the european social model and at the same time to increase employment and social cohesion .
this will only be possible if there is a new social contract in which reconciling family life and professional life is given strategic importance and in which " sharing " is the key word .
it is obvious that the lack of real equality betrays a lack of legitimacy in our political structures and demonstrates how unrepresentative they are .
humanity is divided into two sexes , and we need a system in which discussions and decisions are undertaken by men and women on an equal basis .
that is why i believe in parity , the new face of sexual equality , which gives universality back its true meaning and its rightful place in a politically organised society .
from what we know of this process , it seems obvious that it is crucial to pursue and strengthen the policy of equality between men and women at community level because , despite all the progress made and all the work done , we still see significant examples of disparity between men and women in economic , political , social and civil terms .
the first period was a period of institutional change , change in the legislative framework and huge constitutional victories in all the member states as a result of the fight by the women ' s movement , as a result of major decisions by progressive parties and as the result of action by enlightened men and women .
there were women everywhere .
the composition , or rather the change in composition , will also bring about changes in policies - policies which need to take account of the merits and experience of both sexes .
ladies and gentlemen , the first few months of the new millennium have been marked by two important events : the first was the election of the president of finland , mrs halinen .
a great deal has been said and numerous policies have been implemented in the member states .
the number of women on committees who wield power and frame policies is very small .
we need a policy mix which includes long-term political commitments , as in sweden and finland ; they now have governments in which women account for 56 % and 44 % of members respectively .
the recent initiative by the finnish presidency to develop indicators recording and reflecting the representation of women in the decision-making centres is extremely important .
a decision has already been taken on quotas of 40 % for each sex on all teams and on all research and technological development programmes .
we in the commission are obliged to set a specific and clear example and all the commissioners are working together , as can be seen from the reform of the commission , to achieve 40 % representation of women on all the committees of the european commission .
the various political groups generally agree on the easily verifiable observation that women are under-represented in the decision-making process , in both the political and the economic and social spheres .
nobody nowadays disputes that women should participate in political life , in the parties and in the institutions but it is not easy to agree on how this participation should be achieved .
we are convinced that the participation of women in the decision-making process will be beneficial to society as a whole .
the difficulty lies in finding the right solution to allow women to have a greater presence in positions of responsibility and therefore in decision making .
in some countries of the european union a compulsory quota formula has been adopted which immediately produces a more equal presence of women .
the real percentage is much lower and it is this participation at the grassroots which we must promote in order to ensure a greater presence of women .
there must also be a clear and real will to allow more women , who are ready and able , to assume responsibilities and commitments in political life and therefore in the decision-making process .
it happens to be today that finland ' s newly elected president , tarja halonen , takes up office .
and so the women in finland have also set down a marker , for this is the first time they have had a female head of state .
they did not follow the council recommendation of 1996 on equal involvement for women and overcoming the under-representation of women .
we need this new social treaty , we need the fight for power , money and distribution of work , which must favour women .
men have never wished to surrender positions of power when they had them , but there are also very few women who have been willing to give up their positions of power , and i am thinking here , in particular , of positions of power in relation to children .
inevitably , we should like , for the same reasons of power politics , to be allowed to have this debate more or less to ourselves .
in fact , 45 % of the danish government is made up of women , and that is , in reality , a touch more than in finland .
i think that this field offers some quite distinctive opportunities for women , specifically because it is characterised by flat , rather than hierarchical , structures .
we all know to what extent women are under-represented in decision making at all levels because we have the statistics and they speak for themselves .
if we believe in the principle of equal representation of women and men in decision making we need to commit ourselves to the actions that are necessary to make it happen .
in my own country , sweden , a number of political parties have , in recent years , voluntarily introduced quota allocation by gender as a feature governing the ways in which political assemblies are constituted and run .
in anticipation of this request being met , i now want to take the opportunity of wishing all socialist women success with the " women ' s world marches " which are to begin this spring on international women ' s day .
the vast majority of them are not members of any party .
our group wants to encourage the fair representation of men and women in the institutions of the european union .
that is why we reject the policy of quotas and positive discrimination , whether it is in favour of women or supposed social minorities .
the policy of minorities , while neglecting the deep-seated unity of the human family , to establish superficial divisions , is a dangerous threat to the cohesion of the social fabric and the equilibrium of our democratic system .
the establishment of social quotas in favour of the very smallest categories would be no more ludicrous than establishing quotas of women .
on the other hand , such a policy shows a deep contempt for women .
women deserve more than a quota .
it is by reviving the principle of meritocracy that we shall improve in quantity and quality the presence of women in the decision-making process in quantity and quality .
i know from experience that many women share this view .
minister , commissioner , everything you have just said has been very well expressed , even if a few male colleagues , if there are still any in the chamber , perhaps gnashed their teeth .
i know that there are also some women who do not wish to hear of quotas or even of positive action , because they believe that this positive discrimination humiliates them and marks them forever in their careers .
but the statistics prove it : the positive action , even the quotas , - if they are not applied blindly , without distinction - have increased the number of women in the decision-making process .
first of all it concerns our report , which was adopted last year on the occasion of international women ' s day in strasbourg , which requests the commission to submit to us a new proposal to amend the 1976 directive on the implementation of the principle of the equal treatment of men and women .
may i just remind you once again of our request for an amendment to the 1976 directive which has been watered down and misapplied with regard to the equal treatment of self-employed people , including assistant spouses .
the presence of women in decision-making bodies , in particular , is a question of democracy .
the price paid by women for following their desire to be protagonists in all spheres is that they never have enough time .
if this is true , and it is , any appropriate policy which aims to find positive solutions to these problems must start from this point .
finally , i would like to say that it is now essential that we also raise this issue at the intergovernmental conference .
we know that this area is proving more difficult to resolve , both because women still bear the main responsibilities in family life and because there is still prejudice and personal interest standing in the way of genuine participation by women in various areas which involve greater responsibility .
the truth is that the scant participation of women in centres of political representation and decision making demonstrates a democratic deficit which is incompatible with genuine democracy .
it is therefore essential for the various directives on equality to be complied with and for the council , the commission and each member state strictly to respect the commitments they have made , particularly at the beijing conference .
madam president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i am a right-wing member of parliament but i have the same battles as my colleagues in supporting and assisting fellow citizens in my country to gain power and access to decision-making posts , which should be feasible not only in the political arena but clearly also in all sectors of society .
it should have existed for a long time because women represent more than half of society and it seems quite clear to me that it is natural for them to represent at least 50 % , if not more , of those within decision-making bodies and , inter alia , in the political arena .
an important part of such a plan would be a benchmarking system to guarantee women ' s full participation in power structures and decision making .
the call for women ' s participation in decision making on an equal footing with men is not only a demand for social justice and democracy ; it is also essential if women ' s experience and knowledge are to be utilised to the full .
we want this opportunity to bring substantial changes to our lives in society at large , we want democracy to be synonymous with equality between men and women , and we do not want women to be excluded socially or economically as is still happening today .
the rate of employment in europe , which is much lower than in the united states and japan , must be increased .
we must therefore have many more women in work , and working in the new jobs in which the eu has a shortfall .
i would therefore like to ask the council and the commission what proposals they will be presenting at the forthcoming lisbon summit to ensure that the new economy and the new europe we want to build will definitely include equality between men and women .
mr president , commissioner , the reason why i was so pleased with your intervention was that you had the courage to list the member states where the political representation of women is a success , such as , for example , in finland , france and sweden , and equally , you had the courage to list the member states where things in this respect are not going so well , such as , for example , my own country and greece too , which you forgot to mention .
the electoral system which corresponds most closely to this model is the one-for-one system , as is being applied in sweden on a voluntary basis .
i hope that in the fifth action programme , minister and commissioner , benchmarking will enable the best practices of those countries to be carried through , for it is time that our groups gained an understanding of this .
mr president , i too should like to congratulate the commissioner and the president-in-office of the council for their solid recommendations and , above all , for their proposals .
there are , therefore , serious grounds , over and above justice between the sexes , for distributing public offices and political and economic power fairly and evenly between men and women .
these female virtues can offer an alternative to today ' s culture of violence and institute a new political culture and a fairer and more prosperous society for everyone .
that is why the intergovernmental conference must introduce into the treaty the principle of balanced representation of women and men in all the institutions of the european union and in all democratic institutions and political decision-making centres throughout the community .
it is a demand for simple justice and for democracy and , as such , a condition for political legitimacy .
in my opinion , though , the state should not and must not use coercion to interfere in the internal affairs of political parties , at the risk of jeopardising democracy itself .
in other words , the means which we employ to give women their rightful place within the political democracy should not lead to a system of gender apartheid .
to my mind , quotas will - as was stated here , moreover - be merely a provisional instrument .
i can tell you what happened in portugal last year when a law on quotas for party lists was discussed .
if a political party holds a meeting in the evening and the man cannot go home because he has to attend as he is a member of the party ' s executive , that is seen as a good reason for the man not to go home to play his part in the household chores , which are also his responsibility .
therefore , until there is a change in this idea of sharing , sharing the responsibilities that the right to have a family implies , obviously nothing will change in terms of women being able to participate in the political process .
however , in order to find these solutions , we need measures for positive action which contribute to them .
i therefore fail to understand what the problem with quotas is , given that in principle , they will only be used as an instrument in countries where women are under-represented and where these draft laws have been approved in parliaments where , by definition , men are in the majority .
these measures for positive and balanced action respecting people ' s dignity must be adopted in various areas .
the presidency is therefore extremely keen to support initiatives designed to radically change this situation , even if it has to use transitional instruments which have already proved to be the only way to achieve the objective of balanced representation in decision-making processes .
the presidency is extremely anxious and entirely committed to support these methods , not as objectives in themselves but as a means to an end .
we have entered a new period in which there is a fairly full institutional framework and in which women are well represented in all sectors , education , work , culture .
the problem which we have to deal with is how to change the composition of the decision-making centres .
the first is a policy of persuasion .
as far as europe is concerned , as far as the european parliament is concerned , where there is a quota for the involvement of women , it will take 25 years to achieve balanced representation .
thank you , mrs diamantopoulou .
the debate is closed .
floods in mozambique the next item is the commission statement on flooding in mozambique .
the government of mozambique has appealed for humanitarian aid from third countries .
my colleague poul nielson is literally on his way to mozambique this afternoon and evening together with the portuguese secretary of state to assess the situation on the ground .
if ever a country deserved help from aid donors it was mozambique .
secondly , that feeling has been confirmed by the real efforts which mozambique has made in the last few years to build a strong and prosperous economy and a stable society .
thirdly , we spent much of this afternoon in this chamber discussing conflict prevention , how one could prevent crises happening or how one could respond to crises more effectively .
a third decision will be considered in the light of the mission of commissioner nielson .
the commission is also preparing a medium-term community response combining ngo co-financing with european development fund operations to help mozambique to respond to the crisis situation in re-establishing the rapid pace of growth that mozambique had worked so hard to achieve .
mr president , commissioner , mozambique is a young african country which has made heroic efforts to recover from the underdevelopment resulting from two decades of civil war and to adapt to democracy .
the eu and some of its member states , including my own , have provided emergency financial aid , perhaps a little later than they should have , but they have done so , as have the united states and various countries in the region , particularly south africa .
it is therefore now becoming urgent for us to start considering how we can find financial resources to rebuild the infrastructure that has been destroyed and without which mozambique cannot continue on the path towards development on which it set out a few years ago in such a promising way .
if nothing is done now , we will be letting all the effort that we have made in the past to help mozambique in its development go to waste .
mr president , it has already been said that , after a war which engulfed the country in misery , mozambique is now facing a natural disaster of terrifying proportions .
the dipecho agenda includes south-east asia , central america and the caribbean .
the pse group has always supported the commission ' s humanitarian aid policy .
in view of all this , we also believe the time has come to demand a redoubled effort by the commission and the member states , on behalf of those who are now drowning in mozambique .
mr president , the situation in mozambique is of the greatest urgency .
it is as if the whole world is looking on , helplessly .
it is therefore vital for the eu and its member states to intervene in a way which will enable us to provide this country and its people with rapid and exceptional help .
thousands upon thousands of human lives are in danger at the moment , and only international solidarity can save them .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , there remains , however , one immediate problem : the need to provide help for all mozambicans who have been afflicted , many of whose lives are in danger , in their flooded villages , hoping that they will be rescued .
we are also under an obligation to help because of another fact , the fact that mozambique is one of the few african countries to have used democratic means to recover from the bloody civil war by which it was consumed for several years after it gained independence .
but given this situation , which is so tragic for the people of mozambique , we must not fail to provide an effective and appropriate response to the appeals of mozambique ' s leaders , both those in the government and those in opposition , who , out of a sense of responsibility , have resisted from resorting to violence again as a means of solving their problems .
children have lost parents , families are bereft , hopeless , helpless and they have lost absolutely everything .
but of course , as others have said , this whole thing was predicted and predictable and the slow and very inadequate , woefully slow and woefully inadequate response is something that should dictate now that we actually do invest seriously in disaster preparedness .
there is a case as the commissioner mentioned for the implementation of a rapid response facility and rapid response force in situations like this to deal with crises such as we have there because we simply did not have the strategies or the logistical preparations in place .
most of us here would not wish to boast about eur 3 million .
we need far more and i hope that the commissioner will come back with those promises and also with an initiative to coordinate some of the efforts there .
thank you , mrs kinnock .
in europe , in your rapporteur ' s opinion , this is exactly the attitude that has served us badly over past years , not just once but repeatedly .
these risks involve a correction in the us economy and the future trend in oil prices and in long-term eu interest rates .
should any of these risks materialise in a negative fashion , what will be our response - more laissez faire or shall we have prepared ourselves better than in the last downturn ?
it has been my proposal that parliament must recommend an activist economic policy consisting of two main parts .
one is to adopt the commission ' s own excellent , outstanding econometric analysis , and ask the council to transform it into a programme of action involving certain interconnected quantifiable targets of levels of investment growth and employment that would make our commitment to a policy of full employment operational and credible .
a central plank of such a programme should be the raising of the level of investment of capital formation from 19 % , to which it has fallen over the decade , to at least 23-24 % of gdp , both in the private and in the public sector .
the second pillar consisted of embracing a large number of structural reforms , privatisation , de-regulation proposals , as well as suggestions facilitating the transition to a knowledge-based economy which , as we know , constitutes the backbone of the proposals of the presidency for the lisbon summit .
it has been repeatedly stated by expert opinion that the programme of structural reforms combined with an expansionary programme of investment and growth is capable of pulling the european economy out of its state of inertia while one-sided policies are condemned to fail .
unfortunately my colleagues of the people ' s party aided and abetted by the liberals in the economic affairs committee found my approach unacceptable .
i believe that the political message of this parliament should consist of something more original than a mere rehash of the neo-classical economic mantra .
mr president , firstly i would like to say how pleased i am that my friend giorgos katiforis is still able to muster so much enthusiasm for this very important subject so late in the evening .
the european central bank has all the instruments at its disposal that a central bank could wish for .
the european central bank is headed by convincing personalities .
price stability in the european union is better in the eleven member states than it is in the united states .
the real reason why the european countries are not finding favour is the fact that we are too slow in tackling the structural reform europe needs .
we are aware that unemployment has fallen more quickly in those countries , including eu member states , which have made their labour markets more flexible , than it has in other countries .
for example , if there is currently demand in germany for electronics experts to be brought into the european union from other countries , then this only goes to show that our own training systems have failed and that they have not been equipped to deal with the requirements of the information society in good time .
in other words , things are moving too slowly .
but now perhaps a few words on the fundamental difference between our opinion and that of the rapporteur .
the rapporteur believes in growth and stimulating demand .
at the end of the day , there are , for example , indicators here in the european union that show that growth and its prospects are by no means as solid as they were in the 80s .
an independent evaluation of european economic policy will be of importance to the european union and to structured growth .
yesterday , when speaking to the committee on economic and monetary affairs , commissioner solbes specifically indicated that the prospects for this year and next for the european economy are excellent .
we are inclined to believe that a solid basis exists for this economic growth in the union , now and in the coming years .
furthermore , the member states refused to contribute more funds when we discussed agenda 2000 which means that there will be little available over the next few years at union level .
however , we must stress the need to continue developing the construction of the european internal market which still has some serious flaws .
there are still sectors such as air transport , energy and telecommunications in which , if we compare our unit cost with that of the usa or other countries which are equally competitive at international level , the cost supported by our companies is very high .
this report contains information which shows that in order to create a new company the bureaucratic cost in the usa is eur 500 and in the european union , on average , it is eur 1 600 .
first of all , the affirmation that there is room for a europe of growth , but a europe of sustainable growth , that particularly respects the commitments of the european union at the conferences in kyoto and buenos aires .
a tremendous amount of work remains to be done in the field of transport , energy saving and even in substituting travel by communication via the internet .
secondly , even the growth rate of 3 or 4 % , something we consider eminently feasible , will not be sufficient to reduce unemployment if we do not improve the job content of this growth .
thirdly , we fully agree that it is necessary to reform labour relations in europe , but that clearly means for us that we must protect and enrich the human capital .
our committee emphatically rejected any attempt on the part of the rapporteur to use his report to introduce a different dimension into the debate on the economic situation in the european union and to send the commission and the council the sort of message which the european parliament should send out as the parliamentary body elected by the people of the european union .
indeed , it is good to note that the forecast of 3 % growth for the year 2000 , which could have seemed rather bold when the commission announced it in november 1999 , now has a serious chance of being achieved , even in the context of continued inflation , since the peak of 2 % for the euro zone in january , nevertheless remains quite minor compared with the past .
in fact , the unification of monetary policies and the gradual alignment of other policies imposes additional inflexibility on the different countries in the euro zone by making them behave in ways that are not necessarily suited to their structures and to their respective economic circumstances .
if member states do not do anything about this , there will be even fewer means for care , education and other important public amenities in the future .
high unemployment in the european union concerns all of us , especially now that the downward trend does not seem to be persisting .
the very brave step taken by the reagan administration in the 80s showed how a dramatic reduction in the level of taxation , from 70 % to 28 % that is , was able to stabilise the usa ' s budget with lasting effect .
surveys carried out at european universities have shown that 60 % of students intend to seek work in the public sector and only 40 % in the private sector .
we need more competition in europe , particularly where the new technologies are concerned , so that objectives such as full employment and growth can be secured and sustained .
more flexible labour markets , new technologies , and securing market niches and better framework conditions for the establishment of innovative and creative enterprises , are all crucial to the european economy .
a first , yet crucial step , would be to bring about convergence in social policy .
this would include a benchmarking procedure , with the exchange of comparable data and a shift of emphasis from action plans to the fight against exclusion and poverty .
there is a need to evaluate the annual progress , or lack of it , made by member states in the fight against unemployment , and to take the necessary countermeasures .
the european parliament must have greater involvement in this process .
what we want , therefore , is for europe to enjoy economic growth , but also be prepared to address social issues .
in my view , it is simply not on to say that things are going well for europe when between 16 and 17 million europeans are without work .
europe therefore needs another type of policy , not an american-style policy in every respect but one which takes us away from welfare dependency , which gives people the opportunity of a good education suited to the new jobs in the market , which makes it easier to start up new companies , which improves the commercial climate and which ensures that new techniques and ideas are exploited to the full .
the rapporteur observes that stability is not an end in itself , which is something i agree with .
there is far too much talk about stability , convergence and coordination and far too little about the factors which give rise to innovation and development .
mr president , commissioner , i have the feeling that some of the previous speakers have not read the 1999 annual report on the union economy in its entirety and have made a conscious decision not to listen to my group ' s spokesman , karl von wogau , for the document that we are debating today , and which has had a report written on it , points to the fact that the introduction of the euro has been a success .
mr president , i would like to respond to you straightaway , mr karas .
we too are campaigning for and arguing in favour of the euro , but we want a social market economy and not a us-style market economy .
the commission has the cynicism to consider wage restraint as a positive factor , whereas in france alone , over three million workers receive a salary that is close to the poverty line and they barely survive any better than the other three million people kept unemployed by an insane economy .
what you have as a result are all these major trusts that cut jobs while their profits are high , and which often make staff redundant simply to make their share price rise on the stock market .
eleven thousand job losses at hoechst and rhone-poulenc , twenty two thousand at unilever , ten thousand at abb / alsthom power , not to mention all the others .
the key political divide has been very obviously stated this evening , and it is no surprise that this issue has polarised the debate in a house which is known for its consensus and its carve-out politics , and i am delighted to see this difference of opinion made so clear , because this report is a radical one .
this is the only way to go forward , because the real way to deliver social justice in europe - and after all that is what we are all here to do - is to deliver prosperity and opportunities and jobs .
this report signals very clearly the most effective way to do that , because europe has to wake up .
it cannot create jobs just by government spending .
it cannot create jobs by legislating to cut working hours , as if jobs were a cake that you carve up and divide between people .
and if europe wants to be left behind , left behind to stagnation and to unemployment and to statism and to corporatism , than yes , vote against this report tomorrow .
but if you want europe to go forward and to start delivering to the people of europe , then i would call upon you all to give your support to this report , because it will deliver those jobs , and it will deliver those opportunities , and it is the only way to do so .
mr president , the original version of the giorgos katiforis report had the great merit of making strong recommendations , based on the precise observations of the commission report on the economic situation in europe , for a european union strategy capable of giving continuity and stability to the sustainable development prospects emerging this year for all the countries of our continent .
these recommendations , which , for the most part , are consistent with the guidelines in the portuguese presidency ' s work programme and which will therefore be discussed at the lisbon summit , have been rejected or distorted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs of this parliament , by a majority which only managed to achieve a fragile unity in its rejection of the idea of a european union which is founded on the convergence of national policies and not just on the grouping together of markets .
mr president , i am certainly now unsure as to whether we have all read the same report .
you will find a clear statement to the effect that full employment is not one issue amongst many but the core issue of european economic policy .
now , finally , the eu ' s position is , of course , such that we can achieve high growth and seriously take up the fight against unemployment without jeopardising objectives such as price stability and a balanced budget .
i think that , in this way , the european parliament is excluding itself from the discussion at the very moment that an extremely interesting development is taking place in the european union where a very wide , socio-economic agenda is being drawn up much more clearly .
the portuguese presidency has submitted a wide agenda of this kind for the extra summit in lisbon .
the commission has done this in its five-year plan by listing one of the four priorities .
the commission document too , which is being drafted for the summit in lisbon , takes precisely such a wide approach which covers different areas .
there is no doubt that the hearings of experts and the debates in committee have provided us with additional high-quality information .
there is also no doubt that , throughout the debate this afternoon , we have heard differing opinions about the possible policies .
we all agree that the current economic conjuncture is good .
when we submitted our report , we referred to the risks posed by growth .
we basically highlighted the possibility of encountering difficulties in terms of growth in the usa , and therefore in other parts of the world , and of a sudden rise in inflation .
we all agree that , after a decade of very weak growth and intolerable unemployment , certain action must be taken .
our levels of research and development are too low compared with our competitors and our low level of employment reflects , among other factors , the imbalances in our labour market .
our aim must therefore be to make this reactivation of the economy long-lasting with strong growth and job creation .
this is not an expansionist policy in the sense of growth for growth ' s sake .
this has been the major victim in recent years and any improvements in public finances must lead to improvements in public investment .
our main support in the future must be for research and development and human capital .
this is the policy which the commission has defended and will continue to defend in lisbon .
with the review of the common fisheries policy due in 2002 , it is important that swift progress is now made .
the proposal also makes provision for member states to produce such data in aggregated form .
the implementing regulation will establish a minimum community programme and an extended community programme .
it appears that these programmes will not cover the whole range of potential data but will be selective , for example , by type of fish stock .
the proposal for the council decision allows for the making of the financial contribution by the community to member states engaged in the collection and management of data .
the original proposal simply allowed for the information being gathered to be transmitted to international organisations .
thus , amendment no 6 , while maintaining the freedom of member states to transmit the data to international organisations , requires that it also be sent annually to the commission .
this change is taken in conjunction with amendments nos 1 , 4 and 7 .
amendment no 1 clarifies the point that , although the data are to be scientifically based , they are being collected for wider decision-making purposes .
amendment no 4 makes it clear that the object of the exercise is the evaluation of fisheries resources generally .
amendment no 7 calls on the commission to report annually on the use it has made of the data collected under the regulation .
the other area of concern related to the range of data to be collected under the regulation .
first , in respect to economic data , amendment no 2 makes two changes .
one attempts to ensure that the data sought are no more detailed than necessary to serve the objective being pursued .
the other replaces a reference to income from sales and other revenue , subsidies , interest received , etc . , with a reference simply to volume of sales .
it is considered that without these changes undesirably high costs in the collection of data could be incurred in member states and that there could also be serious problems of confidentiality .
in conjunction with these changes , amendment no 5 deletes a reference to accounting headings accordingly .
amendment no 3 brings into the ambit of the current regulation data of the kind needed to monitor changes in aquatic ecosystems .
this will certainly facilitate the introduction of a new regulation concerning environmental data and may even render this unnecessary .
it should be stressed that the amendment does not in any way require the commission to include the collection of such data either under the minimum or the extended programmes it establishes .
as already stated the proposal for the council decision falls into two parts .
the first is concerned with financing the member states in implementing the community programmes .
there are some minor amendments : amendment no 2 aims to ensure that the financial contribution to member states can cover not only the costs of collection of data but also those of its management , compilation , aggregation , etc .
amendments nos 3 and 6 aim to smooth the timescale given that member states will have to wait until the implementing regulation is in place to know what the programmes actually involve ; and also to bring the timescale into line with the dates and the regulation .
amendments nos 4 and 5 aim to ensure that financial information is forwarded continuously to the budgetary authority .
more significantly , under amendment no 1 , the fisheries committee accepts the recommendation of the budgets committee that the funding should be placed under heading 1 ( b ) rather than heading 3 of the financial perspective .
although in its preliminary draft budget the commission entered the appropriations under heading 3 ' internal policies ' , parliament created a new budget line b1-500 to finance the measures under discussion .
the proposed exhaustive collection of data and the appropriate management of this data will be very valuable in helping to tackle the revision of the common fisheries policy in a more rigorous manner .
in view of this problem , which seems to me to be the most serious , the fisheries committee report improves the proposal in certain important points , particularly with the rapporteur ' s suggestion of more reasonable submission deadlines and the request for monitoring by the commission .
as a result , this report is very satisfactory and , on behalf of my group , i therefore ask for its approval .
over the years , the commission has provided the council and parliament with a steady stream of communications on the market situation for fisheries products .
the object of the exercise was to debate the future prospects of a sustainable european fisheries policy , or rather , to redetermine the content , with regard to production , trade , marketing and various other spheres .
the implementing regulation will clear a few matters up .
i welcome the establishment of a community framework for the collection and management of fisheries data which i believe is absolutely essential if we are to properly assess the level of stocks of the various species of fish .
it is important , of course , that the data is both of a biological and economic nature and the information to be provided from the various member states must be standardised across the community and , as stated by the rapporteur in her report , must be in compliance with international provisions .
i agree with the proposals that information provided to international organisations should also be made available to the commission .
i am pleased to confirm that in my country they are working to ensure that the detailed practicalities , the logistics and utilisation of information are developed in the best interests of the resource of the industry and decision makers and our group has no difficulty in supporting these reports .
but to enlighten the decision makers , let us practise honest science , without the ulterior motive of having the european union finance excuses to destroy our fishing boats .
instead of always following behind the united states , in seattle , in kosovo , in iraq , perhaps the europe of brussels could suggest , over and above the international fishing organisations that exist in the north atlantic , in the pacific , over and above the regulation of tuna , cod or other things , that europe should take the initiative and organise an international conference on fishing , a kind of montego bay of the fisheries resources which would be held between peruvians , japanese , canadians , russians , europeans , and we could manage the fisheries resources scientifically as an asset common to humanity .
mr president , commissioner , to be able to adopt a credible fisheries policy , the commission needs comprehensive and reliable data on fish stocks and fisheries fleets at its disposal .
the commission relies on the member states for the collation of this data .
the question , however , is whether or not the member states would be prepared , under this new regime , to make the necessary data available at the requested time .
further to the court of auditor ' s criticism , in january this parliament adopted my amendment to the cunha report with a large majority .
finally , radical decisions are sometimes mainly based on opinions presented by biologists .
furthermore , the commission must provide sufficient financial means for the inspection of stock levels .
i see the commissioner smiling but i speak with the authority of all the political parties in northern ireland , a diverse crowd but all agreed on this one issue .
as i have said all the northern ireland parties are united on this issue and those responsible for this cod quota regulation should reconsider this decision which can only spell not conservation for the fish but ruination to northern ireland fisheries which will affect all the fisheries of this union .
however , the fact that the updating and sending of data are purely optional and that this involves a very wide range of data and sectors may distort the final objective of the commission ' s proposal .
some have different sectors and , in view of the volume of data to be sent , could be prejudiced compared with those which have a smaller volume of data , if the same deadlines are set .
much of this data is confidential , as has also been mentioned , which could affect the competitiveness of the sectors involved and their enterprises .
we must therefore act very carefully in this area and guarantee the confidentiality of this data .
i regard it as a weakness in the proposal that reporting is not mandatory in all member states .
i cannot understand the proposal to make a regulation out of which it is possible for some member states to slip without any penalty and i cannot understand either that within a european union where we are only 50 % self-sufficient in fish for our domestic needs that there is any highly sensitive information , that by making the reports that are necessary that the national interest or the regional interest of some states or fishing communities is going to be put at risk .
in view of the coming review of the policy in 2002 it is important that we have all possible information , economic as well as biological .
in the past somebody said to me i have been defending the decisions the commission makes .
if we do not have this picture then it will not be possible to make reasonable decisions in two years ' time about the future of the policy .
mr president , commissioner , no one could dispute the usefulness of implementing the qualitative and quantitative data on the fishing industry , particularly in view of the reform of the cfp in 2002 .
a common fisheries policy must coordinate as well as possible the requirements for conservation of species and resource management with economic and market requirements .
however , we also expect there to be greater awareness and appreciation of the peculiarities , differences , varying situations and traditions of the fishing industries , and that they will not be disregarded , penalised or even eliminated due to the misinterpretation of the concept of harmonisation of fisheries policies , as has sometimes occurred in the past .
after years of the cfp for the mediterranean restricting itself to trade regulations and company aid , regulation 1626 at last introduced a responsible fisheries policy , with measures protecting vulnerable fishery resources in order to ensure sustainable exploitation .
the time period will elapse on 31 may next , to be precise , when the commission will present a proposal .
reliable and complete data are a fundamental prerequisite for credible fisheries management , still more so for creating what we constantly refer to as a level playing field .
however , i could only support the collection of data of this kind if a clear data framework was to be put in place first of all and , above all , if the necessary additional budgetary funds were to be made available .
i have the following to say to you on the subject of amendment no 6 , namely all recorded data to be automatically transmitted to the commission : the commission will automatically receive all the necessary data on request .
there is no point in setting up a central database in brussels when much of this data is needed for international meetings a long way from brussels .
i also agree with you that we should present our first report in good time after 2002 , against the background of the common fisheries policy .
it will need to be revisited in further detail in april , within the scope of the draft budget procedure for 2001 .
amendments nos 4 and 5 , according to which the commission is to transmit all financial , and also all situation reports produced by the member states , appear to me to be superfluous , for after all , we have given a commitment to prepare a report evaluating the measures adopted by the member states , and this report will contain an assessment of the entire data collection system .
the commission , in cooperation with the council , will see to it that a realistic schedule is established .
thank you very much , commissioner fischler .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
it sustains some 6 500 jobs and generates around eur 800 million annually .
the current directive prohibits the use of vaccination and requires that all fish in an affected farm be slaughtered whether affected by the disease or not .
the intention in adopting the current regime was to eradicate isa and to do so as quickly as possible .
this is a necessary change and should be accompanied by a commitment at european level to instigate and fund research into developing an effective vaccine .
the second proposed change would permit a phased withdrawal of fish from affected farms , working to a plan based on the severity of the problem in any particular farm .
this approach has been used very effectively in norway where new reports of isa are down to a handful of cases a year having peaked at some 80-90 cases per year in the early 1990s .
i therefore support the commission ' s proposed changes and i am calling for their urgent adoption and implementation .
i thank colleagues in the fisheries committee for their overwhelming vote in support of my report and i in particular thank my scottish colleagues in the committee for their input to this whole process .
most of their content is either unnecessary or already referred to in my text .
it is in all of our interests to ensure that in scotland too we contain isa and prevent its further spread .
last week saw the publication in scotland of a report by a joint government and industry working group on isa .
now , as he said , in excess of 85 000 tons of salmon is now produced in scottish fish farms in an industry which generates more than eur 800 million annually .
regrettably , although isa was first detected in scotland only two years ago , it has now spread to 29 farms directly and around 240 other farms are affected in some way or another .
so this report , mr president , provides an encouraging range of proposals for improving the way in which the authorities in the uk and elsewhere should respond to the disease .
by recommending the introduction of a method of containment and gradual culling , similar to the system used successfully in norway , the rapporteur seeks to introduce a more flexible approach to the disease which will provide confidence , not least to the insurance sector who have hitherto shied clear of providing any form of cover due to the insistence on a policy of compulsory slaughter .
by recommending the research , development and ultimate use of vaccination to control and eradicate isa , the rapporteur also provides comfort to the pharmaceutical industry who have hitherto had no incentive to invest in the development of a vaccine .
in recent research it is estimated that the industry is worth eur 800 million per annum and 6 500 jobs rely on its existence .
thirdly , referring to the earlier discussion on the collection of fisheries data , i very much hope that the commission will engage in projects and studies looking at aquaculture in the environmental context but i believe that is the way forward in relation to the environment , not the way that is suggested in amendments 7 to 13 , and i hope honourable members will reject them .
under the 1993 directive , not only the diseased fish can be culled but also the farmed fish where individuals are affected , exactly like the case when one cow is sick in a herd and the whole herd is culled according to the principle of precaution .
there is another risk to the environment as well , because this disease is transmitted to wild fish , as we have seen .
i would like to thank mr hudghton for his excellent report on isa and for broadly supporting the measures proposed by the commission and also for the contributions from each of the speakers this evening .
the commission proposal aims to ensure a more pragmatic approach towards controlling a disease that has the potential to cause important losses in salmon farms .
however , this cannot be allowed to compromise our objective of reducing and possibility eliminating isa .
nor can it be done , if the proposal involves a threat to public health .
the disease exists since 1984 and there is no report of it affecting human health or mammals .
the virus harms cold-blooded animals .
the commission ' s services are drawing up implementing rules in order to ensure the practical application of this instrument .
council decision 90 / 424 constitutes another instrument for community financial support in case of disease outbreaks .
this is in particular the case for amendments nos 3 and 5 .
the commission included in its proposal a possibility for vaccination of salmon .
you also referred to the need for further scientific research on the nature of the disease .
i will follow very closely the results of this research and take it fully into account in future legislative proposals .
in this context i am happy to partly accept amendment no 1 , taking into account , however , that scientific investigations are not done by the commission but that the commission relies on results of investigations carried out in the member states .
i also can partly accept the part of amendment no 6 saying that directive 93 / 53 should be amended as a result of scientific and technical evidence .
as i pointed out earlier , the available scientific evidence is that isa is not a threat to health .
i can therefore agree to amendment no 10 with the proviso that the words , and i quote , " of the highest possible standard " are replaced by " are safe " .
fish escapes from aquaculture premises have been reported in the past and the virus has been found in wild stocks .
in this context , a number of scientific questions that can only be resolved through further research remain open .
the procedures for setting additional control measures that already exist in community legislation will be used to establish withdrawal schemes based on the state of health of the fish in order to minimise a possible environmental impact .
i do not feel in a position to accept amendments nos 12 and 13 .
it is my feeling that these amendments aim to achieve a zero risk .
i look forward to parliament ' s own views on these amendments and will take careful note if you believe that such an approach is the best way forward .
i can partly accept amendment no 11 .
finally , i would like to emphasise that we continue to strive to maintain a high level of health protection in accordance with our obligations under the treaty .
i hope that in accepting our proposal the european parliament acknowledges our commitment and i would be very grateful for that .
thank you very much , commissioner byrne .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
by now , my colleagues in the fisheries committee and indeed in the parliament will be well aware of our commitment to technical conservation measures which are based on sound technical advice .
the body charged with giving this advice based on sound scientific data is the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna .
this intergovernmental fishery organisation of which the european union is a member is responsible for the conservation of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic and the adjacent seas including the mediterranean .
this body was established back in march 1969 and is formally obliged to meet biannually , however the norm is that it meets annually and takes its decisions on the basis of scientific advice .
these panels are powered to initiate regulatory measures on species covered by the convention .
iccat also made recommendations in 1974 , 1994 and 1996 .
at its recent meeting in november 1998 , the iccat standing committee on research and statistics was asked to perform a new assessment of the western atlantic and eastern atlantic and mediterranean bluefin tuna populations .
the measures agreed in november 1998 are binding since 21 june , i repeat 21 june 1999 , months before the communication was forwarded to the parliament ' s fisheries committee and 9 months almost to the date .
apparently , according to my information , the fisheries directorate-general sent a note last january to the trade directorate-general which is still on the preparatory work .
i do not suppose that anybody in this house would object to the principle of protecting juveniles of marine organisms .
the sheer volume of fish that are thrown back dead also means that any improvement in fisheries data is meaningless .
in february , commission regulation 394 / 2000 designed to protect irish sea cod stocks was issued .
it means that in fleetwood , 30 inshore boats are tied up until the end of april .
this also shows that our committee is in total agreement when it comes to supporting measures which aim to protect species , such as tuna in this case .
mr fischler , i am delighted that the commission responded favourably to our request in the last and constructive debate which we had on this issue and has asked to attend our next meeting this month to inform us about the future preparatory iccat meeting .
however , i must again congratulate our rapporteur , mr gallagher .
thank you very much , commissioner fischler .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
mr president , mr fischler , my report concerns the vital integration of environmental and fisheries issues , as discussed at the ministerial meeting in bergen .
the common fisheries policy is theoretically very demanding and very strict in this respect , perhaps more so than most people , both europeans and non-europeans , would believe .
the revision of the common fisheries policy in 2002 is the biggest time-limited challenge facing us .
i do not believe that the state of stocks and the current scandalous system of discards are a good example of the policy ' s effectiveness which must therefore , in my opinion , be significantly improved .
however , i will just remind you that the meeting in bergen showed very significantly that a proper policy on the sea must be created .
the oral question from our committee on the extremely serious consequences for fisheries of the accident involving the tanker erika will also be considered tomorrow .
but that is nothing new .
mr president , i too welcome your report mr varela suanzes-carpegna , for as far as i can see , we share the same opinion where progress in the protection of fish stocks and ecosystems in the north sea is concerned .
i would also like to remind you that similar measures had already been introduced for north sea herring prior to this , in cooperation with norway .
i am taking as read the fact that the implementation of the new regulation for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juvenile marine organisms as of 1 january this year will bring about a drastic improvement in the protection of juveniles , not just in the north sea but also in all the other community waters of the north-east atlantic .
as you can see , these measures ought to provide greater selectivity .
thank you very much , commissioner fischler .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
the overall strategy of the commission is to direct fisheries activities towards both economically and environmentally sustainable levels through management of the scarce resource in such a manner as to prevent its exhaustion through over-exploitation and / or environmental degradation .
in particular , the communication calls for control of fisheries pressure to benefit commercial stocks and marine aqua systems , improved measures for nature conservation in the marine environment , in the graded management of coastal areas , improved training , information transparency and a greater contribution from scientific research to fisheries management .
furthermore , the commission adopted an emergency regulation for a recovery plan for irish sea cod , effectively calling a halt to cod fishing in the irish sea between 14 february and 13 april due to the crisis in the species .
the first consideration must be to recognise that community legislation must be reinforced and control mechanism procedures enhanced .
thirdly , the european union should undertake to enhance its monitoring and prevention of extensive pollution prevalent in community waters and which is harmful to marine life including fishery resources .
a quota management system such as that existing in new zealand since 1986 is one possible alternative .
the property right that has been created in such a system is the right to fish - not the fish themselves .
such a market organisation can reap better long-term prospects for the fishing industry .
however , we should never blind ourselves to scientific research , we should never cease to gather information , we should never cease to explore improvements in existing systems and , if necessary , we should at least consider policy changes .
i recommend the report to the house .
the environment committee is generally pleased with the commission ' s communication and we are also pleased that the fisheries committee adopted all our amendments .
after all , the treaties have stipulated since 1992 that the precautionary principle and environmental protection should be integrated into community policies .
all the good policies and regulations in the world will not lead to conservation without an effective system to ensure that the rules are respected .
this is a good step forward , but as the commission and the fisheries committee continually point out , much improvement is needed in the control programmes of all member states .
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report .
according to these , for example , the meagre fisheries budget should have to finance artistic heritage or encourage tourism at sea .
as i have said many times before , the fisheries sector is more a victim than the cause of damage to the marine ecosystem and tomorrow we will be able to confirm this in the debate on the erika .
twenty million tonnes of unwanted catches are being thrown back .
the fleet must therefore use increasingly selective fishing gear .
this house has already indicated its opposition to driftnets and yet it is evident that certain countries are not only not respecting the undertaking to eliminate these nets but are increasing the number of vessels using these or simply not providing data given the passiveness of the national and community authorities .
we socialists consider that to defend the common fisheries policy is to defend a regulated and controlled fisheries sector .
we should therefore very carefully monitor pollution from industrial activity , but also from domestic activity .
the council of europe is coming before the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy on 22 march to speak about the research work that must be undertaken , particularly in the marine environment and , more precisely , the scientific and economic challenges of exploiting the oceans .
in effect , this practice is responsible for a high death rate and is therefore incompatible with good fisheries management .
the eu must develop conditions that will create a balance between environmental considerations and all other interests .
a reduction in the fishing capacity and in pressure from the fishing industry on fish stocks is not necessarily compatible with maintaining an outdated fleet and would limit modernisation .
in addition to providing more appropriate conditions of safety and hygiene , the use of more modern vessels could also contribute to reducing certain major factors .
secondly , it is true that a policy of preserving the marine environment must be practised both in community seas and in international waters or those belonging to third countries .
can i first of all congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report .
conservation is something that i hear on many occasions and a lot of people pay lip service to it .
in actual fact they have had a moratorium imposed upon them without any recompense , without any real negotiation or discussion .
now we all accept that there is a problem in conservation and a problem of stocks , but what i am really saying to you commissioner , and i have said this to you in the fisheries committee and i will say it to you again : there is a wide divide between brussels and the working fishermen .
and we have got to take on board the views of the fishermen .
short-term measures alone benefit neither the stocks nor the fishermen .
you also recommend extending coastal waters from a 12 to a 24 mile zone .
thank you very much , commissioner fischler .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
the regulation is based on the principle of universality and uniformity underlying the procedure .
for this reason , it is proposed in my report that in cases of this kind , when main proceedings are already under way , further proceedings in the form of concurrent proceedings should only be permitted with the consent of the administrator of the main proceedings .
this qualification would constitute another important step in the direction of a closed , uniform , european legal system .
i believe parliament should shift its emphasis here and would therefore urge those who have tabled amendments on this point to give it further thought .
this regulation lays down all conflict of law provisions in insolvency law in a compact , conclusive and binding manner , as a european legal norm , whilst upholding national systems of law in the matter .
hence i would urge the council to adopt the regulation as quickly as possible , taking parliament ' s proposals into account .
mr president , i think we all agree that a european legal area must be created .
we therefore all agree on the established facts , and the draft regulation and the report are going in the right direction .
the first is to establish equivalence , saying : in the final analysis , bankruptcy in france is the same thing as bankruptcy in england or in germany .
the second way is to recreate a law ex nihilo , that is to say , to harmonise the systems and completely overhaul all the concepts and legal systems in each of the member states .
but at this stage i should like to make an observation , which is not technical , but more philosophical and taken from practice .
and i believe that it is our responsibility , in an ever more rapidly moving economy , where everyone must have a real opportunity , to give people the chance of running a commercial enterprise , and a second and a third chance , if necessary .
one of the reasons that explains the difference in competitiveness between the european area , for example and the united states , is precisely this ability of bouncing back that exists on the other side of the atlantic and that we just do not have here .
as you all know , this convention was the result of many years of discussion , which was often difficult and often laborious , and that for this very reason , it represents a compromise between unitary and territorial principles , that is to say , the structural principles of the different legal insolvency proceedings in each of our member states .
this is why it is important to try to find a legal frame of reference which can adapt to the new requirements of a global economy .
it was not the commission that presented the present proposal for a regulation but two member states , germany and finland , by means of a joint initiative under the right of initiative which member states share with the commission on such issues .
as far back as 1981 , the commission had already stated its position in favour of clearly adopting the principle of unitary insolvency proceedings .
furthermore , this view was accepted in the commission ' s proposals on a parallel procedure concerning the liquidation of businesses .
the commission feels , for this reason too , that it should not present a modified proposal for amendments to the regulation , but i would nevertheless like to convey to you the commission ' s opinions on the amendments under discussion .
the commission therefore accepts amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 and 5 proposed by the rapporteur , mr lechner .
indeed , the commission feels that parliament should instead support amendment no 4 by the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , which would allow the annexes to the regulation to be modified by the commission , assisted by a regulatory committee , in accordance with the on-going procedure of article 5 of decision 1999 / 468 / ec .
with regard to the centre of main interests of a company or of a legal person , this idea is clearly defined in article 3 .
in all other cases that have not been specifically addressed , we feel that the reference made in recital 13 should be sufficient .
thank you very much , commissioner vitorino .
the debate is closed .
secondly , we must focus today on one specific aspect of this terrible environmental disaster , namely its effect on the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected regions .
the disaster off the coast of brittany is truly enormous in scale .
as this house indicated in its first resolution on 20 january , the needs of the severely affected fisheries , ostreiculture and tourism industries must be taken into account .
mr president , over two months after the wreck of the erika , pollution of the coasts , which have already been cleaned once , is still continuing .
thanks to the grass-roots involvement , which this house furthered by organising a debate and adopting a resolution on 20 january , an initial raft of measures has been announced .
so , yes , total fina must provide the financial resources to contribute to the repair of ecological , economic and social damage and to compensate the people affected by the disaster .
mr president , the reason why it is important to return to the subject of the oil slick , two and a half months after the wreck of the erika , is because the extent of the economic , social and ecological disaster affecting our atlantic coastline is , in fact , far greater than the first assessments gave us to understand .
the ecological disaster is a major one , possibly unprecedented in scale .
some of them have already lost several years ' worth of harvests , but the 50 % to 80 % slump in sales is affecting all the harbours on the atlantic coastline , and even those in the channel and north sea .
the two principle resources of the atlantic shore , fishing and tourism , both closely interrelated , have both been seriously affected .
the first point is that the polluter must accept his liability in full .
the second principle is the ' polluter pays ' principle .
our resolution calls upon the commission to take the necessary steps to assist in repairing the damage caused in the fishing industry affected by the consequences of the disaster .
the polluter pays principle must be applied consistently .
confronted with this situation , the inhabitants of brittany , the vendee and charente , as well as the forestry workers in other regions , await a signal from the european union .
in the case of the erika , the local fishing and aquaculture industries have suffered a bitter blow and it is important not just to look at the harmful effects that are apparent today but also to look ahead at the long-term detrimental effects of oil pollution .
mr president , today , once again , it is necessary to discuss the erika disaster , two and a half months after it occurred , because its tragic consequences are far from over .
i hope that the commission will adopt these proposals before the end of march , for this will enable us to make progress on the preventative measures front .
these measures are very welcome and the committee on fisheries will monitor these very closely so that we do not have to spend more time in this house regretting such disasters .
the debate is closed .
i refer to article 38 of the territorial requirement which restricts the scope to the territory of the state of israel and thus does not grant special customs arrangements for products coming from the territories which were occupied by israeli armed forces in june 1967 and upon which , in breach of all the international rules , from the fourth geneva convention onwards , the different israeli governments have built settlements , confiscating palestinian land and water and installing their own people .
israel can be certain that europe is in favour of its security and stability , but it cannot ask us to be party to such grave violations .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the questions you put to the commission , mrs morgantini , concern possible illegal exports to the european community from israeli settlements or from the occupied territories benefiting from preferential treatment , and which therefore cast doubt on whether the rules on preferential origin are being properly applied .
president arafat accepted this proposal at a meeting on 24 january with commissioner patten .
furthermore , exports from the territory of the state of israel and the current palestinian territories to the european union receive preferential treatment from the european union .
therefore , it would make good sense now for israel to guarantee the legally irreproachable application of this concrete preferential arrangement on its national territory , and for the palestinians to do the same in respect of their interim territory .
ultimately , all producers , be they israeli or palestinian , should be afforded easier access to the european union market once the territorial issues have been conclusively resolved , which will come step-by-step with the construction of a future palestinian state .
some might therefore consider it reasonable to argue that , since the irregular exports to europe from the israeli settlements in the occupied territories are not regarded as a priority political problem , these should be halted until a final peace agreement is achieved .
mr president , commissioner , since the signing of the oslo agreements in 1995 , israeli-palestinian relations have entered a new phase , which should lead to a fair and lasting peace between partners which respect each other .
the union has played an invaluable part in this process , in its capacity as the primary source of economic aid to the region .
the main reason for the problems of implementing trade agreements between the european union and israel , as has already been said , is the intractable problem of frontiers .
mr president , commissioner , the peace process in the middle east is an extremely delicate matter .
it will only be possible for the exact borders of the state of israel , the only democracy in that region , to be universally recognised once these negotiations have proved to be a success .
firstly , despite the current difficulties which we saw for ourselves in situ , we must repeat our support for the direct dialogue between the israeli government and the palestinian authority which is producing a fair , stable and definitive peace agreement .
secondly , it is in the interests of both parties to ensure the economic development of the region and to take decisive action to reduce the serious imbalances in the distribution of wealth in the area .
thirdly and finally , perhaps the commission could bear in mind the usefulness of participating in the work of a tripartite working group , naturally involving the european union , to guarantee compliance with trade agreements and to ensure progress in the assistance offered by the european union to all the parties concerned .
seen in this perspective , this initiative should also be viewed as positive , and as an initiative intended to further the middle east peace process .
we are major donors but we have , unfortunately been marginalised in terms of policy and political influence for too long in the middle east and we can contribute positively , as many speakers have said today , just as we did in the case of northern ireland .
goods do flow freely from these territories , goods produced in israeli settlements in the occupied territories .
anything liable to separate the two economies would have a serious effect on cooperation between israel and palestine , including joint ventures , palestinian sub-contractors and exporters .
this would constitute an important and practical contribution on our part towards facilitating cooperation between israel and its immediate environs .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would first like to thank all of you who have taken part in this debate for the excellent , valuable contributions you have made , as we are addressing an issue which is undoubtedly very sensitive politically speaking .
the commission is also aware that the political importance attributed to the peace process by the european union is reflected in parliament and in the commission , as has been said here by various members and is a result of the recent visit to the region by president nicole fontaine as well as president romano prodi ' s very recent visit last week .
the truth of the situation is that the approach adopted by the commission on this subject is to seek to obtain the support and agreement of all parties involved in the process .
this proposal for a council regulation is the first in a series which will make it possible to draw up this reform .
the text of the proposal for a regulation has been amended quite extensively in the committee on fisheries .
all the members of our group voted in favour of these amendments , both in committee and in parliament .
amendment no 1 serves to clarify the text considerably .
let us not forget that in the administration of a common fisheries policy the statistical analysis used must include the social aspect .
amendment no 3 makes it possible to add an important aspect : the collection of environmental data .
amendment no 4 specifies the obligation upon scientists to process all the data and pass it on to the relevant authorities , including national and regional authorities , in order to contribute to the decision-making process .
amendment no 5 serves to mitigate the commission proposal .
effectively , the information requested from the authorities must be reasonable in order to allow an operational overview of fishing activities without compromising essential rights to confidentiality , for example , in fiscal matters , where the community has no jurisdiction .
amendment no 6 is intended to tighten up the commission ' s participation in the inspection procedure .
it is , however , recognised that other species such as trout , eels or herring , may be carriers of the virus without being affected by it .
the disease was detected in norway in 1984 and also in canada ( 1996 ) .
the virus does not survive at a temperature of more than 26 c , and is therefore not dangerous to humans .
today , 240 salmon farms are affected by isa .
it is therefore essential to contain this disease and prevent it spreading to all the aquacultural establishments in the various member sates of the european union .
the usefulness of this proposal is limited , to say the least , certainly in the short term .
resolution on women in decision making ( b5-0180 / 2000 ) my group abstained in the resolution on women in decision making , much to our regret .
in 1994 , the green group was the first group in this parliament to have a majority of women in it , the greens were the first group to have a woman secretary-general in dominique voinet , now the french environment minister , and the german greens were the first political party to operate gender parity in order to redress the overall under-representation of women in political institutions .
the resolution makes clear there is a need for a proportional system that gives form to women ' s representation and that all political parties must take action .
it gives political parties an important role in building a democratic europe .
i do not know if there is some cause-and-effect at work here , but the fact is that the proportion of female members in the european parliament went from 25.7 % in 1994 to 29.9 % in 1999 .
moreover , this parliament has had a woman president since the 1999 elections .
nevertheless , we recognise that the experience in all member sates is not the same and some recourse to such measures may be justified , as a temporary remedy , to rebalance female representation where women are grossly under-represented .
we are opposed to the idea that the biological differences between men and women should give rise to two different world views and two different value systems .
katiforis report ( a5-0041 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the katiforis report on the european union economy in 1999 to toe the group line , and also because it reveals an extremely serious deficiency which i hope it will contribute to eliminating during the next few years .
the free-marketeering right ' s rejection of the proposed amendments leads us , therefore , to vote against the resolution . - ( sv ) we have chosen to abstain in the vote on amendment 4 to the katiforis report on the eu economy ( 1999 ) .
joint resolution on the shipwreck of the ( rc b5-0181 / 2000 ) mr president , we voted in favour of the resolution on the wreck of the erika out of solidarity with the victims of this ecological disaster .
confining oneself to deploring the disaster and expressing sympathy for its victims without applying some restraining measures in order to oblige total to make good all the direct and indirect consequences of the pollution for which it is entirely responsible is tantamount to doing nothing .
it takes far better account than our previous resolution of the extent of the disaster , which every day seems to get far worse than anticipated on first analysis and is becoming more exacting , clearer and more urgent .
regarding the compensation system , the citizens are anxious because fipol ' s initial compensation payments to victims have been limited to 25 % .
finally , our resolution clearly stipulates that it is absolutely essential , in matters of maritime safety , to break out of this downward spiral of widespread irresponsibility , this pernicious system of mutual paralysis wherein states dump responsibility onto the union , and the union dumps it on the states , and in the end , the polluters are the only winners .
we must , and shall , remain particularly vigilant in the months to come in order to ensure that the victims who bear none of the responsibility whatsoever for this disaster receive compensation in full from the polluter , and to ensure that this time we do in fact learn the lessons from the oil slick in terms of maritime safety , so that polluters are deterred once and for all from gambling with the lives of our coastal populations .
katiforis report ( a5-0017 / 2000 ) we agree that the fishing industry has the most to gain from promoting respect for the marine environment .
in its communication , however , at the same time the commission specifies that it is not in a position to ensure that this legislation is complied with .
transhipment has become common practice and frequently fish products from one member state which cannot be sold within the union due to exceeding the tac are sold as imported products or as originating from another member state .
the latter occurs very frequently in businesses whose capital came from a member state other than the flag state of the fishing vessel ( this is actually a way of concealing ' quota-hopping ' ) .
the members of the union for a europe of nations group shall therefore be voting against this report which does not go into details of the deficiencies of the commission communication and increases natura 2000 constraints upon the fisheries sector .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 2 march 2000 .
madam president , i would like to talk about a quite different matter , which concerns iran .
thank you , mr blak .
as you can see , mrs banotti , you still have your work cut out for you .
i too would like to say thank you for the fact that here we can watch a finnish television channel .
then i would like to say thank you for the fact that we have got cold water in the taps .
thank you , mr seppanen .
special european council ( 23-24 march 2000 in lisbon ) the next items are the council and commission statements on the special european council in lisbon , which is to be held on 23 and 24 march .
and it is true that in the united states of america , venture capital works much more effectively than it does in the european union , even today .
according to the german philosopher habermas ' s concept of democracy , there is a communication flow between political society and civil society , which is essential to the decision-making process in a modern democracy , and although it may work well in each of our countries , we must admit that it does not yet work well in the eu as a whole .
there is , however , also a strategic deficit as regards the major economic and social issues .
there must be a european commitment to establishing conditions for a genuine venture capital market which can in particular support small businesses which have come into existence as a result of the technologies of the future .
what is particularly crucial here is the commission ' s action plan for venture capital and the excellent work currently being done by the european investment bank for the lisbon summit .
i would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the initiatives the commission has prepared on the subject of business policy and innovation policy , which seek to create a framework for coordinating our action in the member states and between member states and the european institutions .
i would like to mention what i think is perhaps the most relevant issue for the future , and that is the issue of lifelong learning as the fundamental basis for social transformation and as a prerequisite for a new stage in social dialogue , that is in dialogue between europe ' s social partners .
so there is a political deficit , a strategic deficit , and also a deficit in the coordination of our policies and measures .
secondly , we want to supplement them with fundamental new approaches , such as those relating to the information society , and to the knowledge-based economy , and also those relating to the modernisation of social protection and to combating social exclusion .
this will depend on us , on whether we are able to boost the economic growth of the european system sufficiently , on the extent to which we are able to generate employment , on the level of education of our citizens and on the training we give our workers .
the challenges awaiting us in lisbon are therefore very simple : we must meet the challenge of technology by regaining lost ground in the areas of knowledge and technical skills , especially retraining technologies .
human resources mean education , training and reform of the welfare state in order to deal , in particular , with the problem of an ageing society .
to achieve results , we need a new method , and , as the portuguese prime minister said in his speech , clear macroeconomic parameters for this activity .
the processes which have been put in place , by common agreement , to improve levels of employment , boost economic renewal and increase social cohesion within the territory of the union are extremely important .
we have to consider in particular the future creation and maintenance of resources in promising sectors in terms of employment .
the modernisation of the european social model and its increased effectiveness are as important for our competitiveness as the corresponding modernisation of the economy .
it will be difficult to conduct a sober policy , one that produces results only very slowly , which must be implemented here and now , if we are presenting the citizens of europe with such a picture of the future as this , while they themselves fear for their jobs .
with regard to the content of his speech , i must say that my group identifies very closely with his confirmation of the fundamental values of the european union .
mr president-in-office , all democratic systems have deficits , but you are right to point out that we are currently at the beginning , under the portuguese presidency , of an intergovernmental conference aimed at reforming the treaties .
this is an affront to individual and collective dignity and it gives us at least 15 million reasons why we should carry on with the project that you have highlighted here today , mr prime minister .
the potential is clear : if the european union , today , in its member states , were to attain the best practice already achieved by its existing states and by its competitors we would have 30 million more jobs , twice as many as are currently unemployed .
the task of lisbon has been correctly identified by you , prime minister , and by president prodi as no less than shifting european policy towards a new practice , towards a new paradigm .
the lisbon challenge is to delineate policy and methods for redressing these deficiencies and to release this potential dynamic .
mr baron crespo has described it as a social democrat project .
but for too many of the excluded and the long-term unemployed , the young , women and other marginalised groups , passive welfare dependency is not enough .
what we have to do is release this new dynamic at individual level by saying the resources are there , even within the framework of sound finance .
we can best guarantee the fight against unemployment and encourage social cohesion in europe through having an employment-rich economy and through having sustainable models of welfare .
finally , on the knowledge society , it is very clear that we need to convert our thinking , not just at a technological but also at a social level .
it is very clear that we need to convert old social spending methods into new economic and social opportunity .
if lisbon can meet the targets spoken of here today , it will be an important step on that road to releasing the dynamic to which i have referred .
we would also like to believe , along with yourselves , that there is generally a clear awareness that the scale of the changes that must be envisaged in terms of the qualifications needed to address the new technological challenges facing companies itself brings with it the inherent risk of creating new mechanisms for social exclusion , to cite you once more .
we know that over half the jobs currently being created in the european union are precarious , temporary or perforce part-time , and as a result provide the employee with neither the conditions for self-reliance nor , very often , an income that offers them a decent standard of living .
we know that new technologies do not , in themselves , generate greater democracy , but simply greater collective and personal autonomy for those citizens who are better integrated into mainstream society .
lastly , we know that anyone who claims to meet the needs of the citizens must first ensure their total involvement in public policy decisions .
we have heard nothing about support being provided to all practical trials involving the public-minded use of new information technologies by the general public , nor about the role of associations for learning and information being promoted for all sectors of society .
we have heard nothing about the possibility of public funds being freed up to promote innovation in the field of products and services liable to improve the quality of life for all .
we have heard nothing about the universal telecommunications service being redefined in order to make it possible for everyone to access the internet under the best possible technical conditions and at affordable rates .
in short , we have heard nothing to suggest that the citizen will be anything more than a customer .
we can find nothing in the document from the portuguese presidency , nor in the commission ' s strategic guidelines for 2000 , that reveals the slightest trace of a legislative programme in the field of social policy , be this to bolster the rights of employees threatened with redundancy or to prevent social dumping .
we can but share the concern of the council and the commission to see the european union , after the single market and after the euro , finally equipping itself with a political project that is accessible to all its citizens , but the new governance of which you are - in my opinion unfairly - priding yourselves lacks the democratic and participatory ambition to which nascent european civil society aspires .
madam president , mr president-in-office and prime minister of portugal , the current situation in the union and in most of the member states is bound to raise legitimate concerns , in spite of the overall economic recovery .
it is our opinion that it is not only necessary to change this state of affairs , but that it is also possible to do so .
it is necessary because employment , and i mean quality employment with employee rights , is a fundamental right of every human being .
an appeal for the coordination of social policies or an insistence on a society based on innovation and knowledge or on information technology will therefore not be enough , however important they may be .
we reached joint conclusions on 14 points , of which we will officially inform the presidency .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , mr president-in-office of the council and prime minister of portugal , as we have been paying close attention to employment-related issues , we must note the portuguese presidency ' s initiative to put the future of the european social model on the european political agenda once again .
nevertheless , before i discuss this matter , i would like to mention some aspects of the path that europe has already taken over the last ten years , so that we can approach the next ten years in a realistic way , as the portuguese presidency has proposed .
around ten years ago , when the single currency and nominal convergence were being discussed , some people , in various decision-making and discussion forums , warned of the need to give priority to the issues of employment , the real convergence of economies , and economic and social cohesion .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i have carefully read the portuguese presidency ' s document for the lisbon summit , which goes far beyond employment issues and which trumpets an information society and social cohesion .
we are not , of course , questioning the strategic objective of making europe into a world-class economic area based on innovation and knowledge , a more dynamic and more competitive area , with a view to increasing economic growth rates , with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion .
on the other hand , i would also like to say quite clearly that we support the european social model as opposed to certain other social models from around the world , but we support it on the assumption that it remains to be perfected and implemented in a participatory way .
as long as there are rates of unemployment in double figures , or genuine pockets of hidden unemployment in the eu , the real europe has not yet been built .
whilst there are such disparities between the quality of social protection systems and particularly the retirement pensions of one member state in relation to those of another member state of the european union , the real europe has not yet been built .
lastly , until we have real convergence , until economic and social cohesion is a reality for everyone and until the european social model is developed , the real europe , madam president , ladies and gentlemen , has not yet been built .
but we must surely oppose some of your policies , some of your principles , and a certain economic fundamentalism .
i must at this point stress our conviction that there can be no social policy nor full employment policy without national and european preferences , and without protecting our markets from fierce international competition .
you are facilitating it , collaborating with it , and are in fact orchestrating , despite your declared intentions , the disintegration of our social welfare systems , precariousness , and social decline .
there is no requirement that unemployment should be below 5 % or - better still - below 2 or 1 % .
my group hopes that danish voters will decide to keep the danish krone when they take part in the referendum on membership of emu on 28 september of this year .
the question that i would like to ask very clearly is this : are you representing 14 eu countries here or 15 ?
from this point of view , this question is perfectly sensible and requires the clearest possible answer .
this is not the first time during the portuguese presidency that there has been a different and politically stimulating relationship between the council and parliament , but this is a significant gesture which , as my friend and colleague mr baron crespo noted , we were delighted to note .
my congratulations , mr president-in-office , for making this issue topical once again without rejecting social cohesion and values which we hold to be fundamental , because they are not only at the heart of the founding project of the eu , but they are at the heart of our civilisation and , above all , of our understanding of the need for solidarity between all europeans .
something that we said here in january and that i would like to repeat is that we must not be satisfied with this strategic objective being the priority of one presidency , a priority for just six months .
we challenge the council and the commission once again to include it , not as a priority for six months , but as a goal for the eu , as important as the goal of enlarging or deepening the european union .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , i should like to express my delight at the fact that a bullish agenda has been set for the issues of employment and economic development at the lisbon summit .
a joint effort is needed to strengthen research and development , including research in connection with information technology , and there is a need to strengthen the internal market and to create the necessary conditions for receiving the full benefits from the new technology and for developing trade via the internet .
i would say that it is important that we should aim to achieve common objectives , but that it is also important that individual countries should retain their responsibility for , and sovereignty in , establishing social and employment policy and that we should have a certain degree of competition between systems so as to ensure that social and employment policy is shaped in a progressive and dynamic way .
the result is sobering .
the growth in media , mobile radio communication and software was not able to compensate for the job losses in the telecommunications sector and in the electronics industry , and for the rationalisation resulting from the introduction of information technology in other sectors of the economy .
mr president , the european leaders will be primarily addressing three key issues when they meet in portugal later this month .
however , the arrival of globalisation will not and must not mean absolute and free market access for all products and services operating at this time .
it is clear that each country has different priorities in terms of the different economic sectors it wishes to protect .
the european union as an economic entity is very strong but there are still large-scale social problems which need to be addressed in a structured manner .
mr president , prime minister guterres has been most convincing .
the most minor of accidents is depicted as an irreparable ecological disaster .
i am not making the case against stability policies nor against necessary structural reforms .
mr president , i should like to thank prime minister guterres for his very committed speech .
i want to end by saying that social cohesion is to be created both in the individual countries and in europe as a whole , but that this will not be achieved if the individual countries do not continue to be cohesive within themselves for many years to come .
the right to data protection does not appear in the euro paper nor is it part of the current debate on e-commerce .
if we wish to remain credible in developing a european charter of fundamental rights then the fundamental right to privacy must of course be included in each of our individual programmes , in particular where new technologies are concerned .
mr president , the agenda for the lisbon council , which is to be held on 23 and 24 match , is liable to induce dizziness .
the conclusion of the document issued by the presidency on 12 january holds the key .
we must revise the broad guidelines of our economic policies - which at present only have the status of an annual recommendation from the council to the member states - with a view to amplifying their scope and above all , consolidating their status as a ' framework document ' .
mr president , mr president-in-office , ladies and gentlemen , in the speeches which we have heard a noble aim has been mentioned , that of we europeans becoming competitive with the united states , of developing ourselves into equal partners with the united states .
if , on the other hand , we look , for example , at the issue of filling top posts - when it is a question of finding a new managing director of the international monetary fund - and see how the europeans behave towards the americans , then without a doubt we are still a very long way from this equal partnership .
we have banned them here in the chamber , rightly , because they are instruments of torment .
establishing additional rigid rules - such as , for example , introducing a rigid 35-hour week in france - can , i admit , create jobs in the short term , but i am convinced that in the long term it damages our competitiveness and thus destroys jobs .
in europe we are also still a long way from a common domestic market .
we have 15 domestic markets and a common european internal market .
there are many challenges involved with creating that full employment .
some of those challenges will be very difficult to overcome , but the important thing is that we have to turn the rhetoric of what we have been saying for many , many years - about full employment , about a socially inclusive society , about a society that is based on innovation and knowledge - into reality .
but this is important if we are to have a genuine achievable outcome from this lisbon summit rather than perhaps setting off down another road - a road which i know prime minister gutierrez does not want to embark on , because he actually wants to see something achieved in the process of the lisbon summit .
mr president , while the heads of state of the european union are preparing for their meeting in lisbon , where they will discuss employment , economic reform and social cohesion , abb / alsthom , a european cartel if ever there was one , has revealed in no uncertain terms the truth that hides behind the empty words uttered by policy-makers .
i welcome the emphasis on bolstering research and development in europe , on developing content industries and on speeding up broad-band networks with all that is involved as part of working towards a knowledge society .
we live in the time of idea - the internet digital electronic age .
but i welcome the fact that this summit is aiming also at a wider emphasis on reforms of our economies in europe to improve competitiveness and innovation .
one of the priorities which has been identified under the cardiff process is to improve the sensitivity of the financial markets to the value of intangible investments and investments in knowledge .
the aim of full employment cannot be achieved by economic policy alone .
i think that the special summit in lisbon will herald responsible economic planning in the european union .
mr president , prime minister , president of the commission , the portuguese presidency has presented an ambitious programme for the special summit .
in this context the ciampi group also mentions the european company statute .
it puts the loss to the economy of not having a statute of this kind at eur 30 billion a year .
the straitjacket of agenda 2000 will not provide you with the requisite means .
the public services have played a key role throughout the entire existence of our european social model .
lastly , this knowledge society hinges on research and development and i would like to applaud , at this juncture , the commission initiative that aims to create a european research area .
mr president , the commission and parliament will nevertheless have need of the council in order to secure the requisite resources to create this european research area .
i believe that the proposals you will put forward in lisbon , which should help to merge these infamous broad economic policy guidelines , these ' employment ' guidelines , to form guidelines for the european policy on growth and employment , mark a step in the right direction .
it is up to each and every one of us to work on this .
one can but welcome the ambitious objective which you have set , within the ten-year strategy you propose , of lifting the taboo on the notion of full employment in the european union , and of providing us with the means to do so by setting a quantified target of 3 % growth .
but over and above that , as regards your objective of a knowledge economy , claude desama has just spoken of the contribution that public services can make to attaining this objective , although i myself would stress the importance of a strategy for lifelong learning .
lastly , a final word on social cohesion .
we will offer you our support in lisbon in laying down new guidelines for the european union ' s economic policy .
mr president , along with my colleagues , i would like to welcome the very clear document that the portuguese presidency has given us today .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , it is , i think , thanks to your and the commission ' s commitment that the lisbon summit can finally prove to be an ambitious and social summit where the european social model is at long last seen as a new driving force behind european integration and where full employment can become a concrete goal .
but if lisbon wants to become the summit of these political ambitions , it must also take on board methodology .
i would like to draw your attention to three points , in particular , which seem essential to me if this summit wants to succeed as a major social summit .
secondly , i would very much like to second your commitment to lay down clear objectives , regarding both economic growth and the level of employment .
i think it is important to formulate an objective in this respect , mr president-in-office , that is to say to challenge all member states to stamp out social exclusion of all citizens in our society , not only children , but also their parents and the elderly .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , the special european council in lisbon on employment , economic reform and social cohesion is to pursue , as you have told us , an objective which is ambitious , very ambitious , at the risk of disappointing our fellow citizens , conscious as they are that decreeing full employment and the eradication of poverty in europe cannot , in itself , ensure that this objective is attained .
but , when all is said and done , this summit will have a major benefit - that of outlining , in the wake of cardiff and luxembourg , a political desire for greater social cohesion , particularly as regards the 57 million people who are living in a state of poverty within the union , including single mothers , large families and children , and whose numbers will in the future be swelled by other outcasts from society , specifically those people who will not have access to new areas of knowledge , since this will engender new social imbalances .
mr president , there is an idea in the portuguese presidency 's statement which i like very much .
this idea is the notion that the strength of our european economy is rooted in the capabilities , imagination and creativity - quite simply in the knowledge - of the people in the european economic process .
if we are to take this seriously , however , if the intention is for this really to become a political programme , then no additional justification is required for a policy of social inclusion , because participation in society would in itself be the strongest productive force in our shared economy .
i wish you much strength , pledge parliament 's support and assure you that this parliament will have more to say on the issues of economic and employment policy in the future , as the people of europe also expect .
it is clear that we must redefine the role of europe in the world economy , creating a competitive europe , opening the way to new and better jobs and organising this process with an appropriate strategy for social cohesion .
the central role of employment and social policy , in the creation of this new society , is based on two factors .
on the one hand we have economic efficiency , since , in this new technological context , the quality of human resources is essential .
it has to be done thinking of the men and women who live and work daily in our countries .
the special lisbon summit must fundamentally reaffirm , for the european citizen , the notion that the european union still believes in the idea of a society which favours inclusion and social cohesion .
we need a greater sense of responsibility and greater participation from our social partners - new actors , as the pintassilgo report calls them - so that we can implement employment agreements and achieve competitiveness in business .
it seems to me , mr president , that this is probably the case because we europeans see europe as somewhat removed from our more immediate concerns and interests .
all of this will lead us to the need to define the role of europe in the world economy , of europe as a competitive platform - and i stress ' competitive ' - opening the way to new and better jobs , higher quality jobs from the point of view , of course , of guaranteeing social cohesion .
social risks , social breakdown , unemployment , social exclusion , imbalances in the social security systems , are unavoidable challenges presented by globalisation , technological change and an ageing population .
of course , today ' s europe has organised institutional procedures for developing these policies , to create an economy , and above all a society , based on innovation and knowledge , by means of a european policy on the information and knowledge-based society , the construction of an educational society on a european scale and the development of a european area of science and technology open to the world .
i would like to draw your attention to three specific points .
the first point concerns corporate governance .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , there has already been a great deal of discussion , and i hope that i will not repeat any of what has gone before .
i would , however , like to thank the portuguese presidency most heartily for the document presented and for the excellent address given by the president-in-office of the council .
however , this is the first time in many years that a strategic objective has been put forward , and i feel that it is extremely important : to transform the union into an economic area based on innovation and knowledge , in order to boost economic growth , achieve full employment in proper jobs and bring about social cohesion .
the fact that parliament has a crucial role to play in this is also important .
my second example is this : a great deal has been said about the participation of women in the labour market and about equal opportunities for women and men in society in general .
practical measures relating to what i spoke about earlier - a common goal for support services for families and particularly for children - are a key factor in creating jobs and at the same time creating equal opportunities and ensuring much greater participation by women in the labour market .
obviously , in order to achieve this , there are two issues which are crucial in all areas .
lastly , i would like to answer a question that i have been asked , which is whether i am speaking here on behalf of 15 or 14 countries .
this does not prevent the portuguese government , and many other european governments , from being not so much in dispute with a particular country , as being engaged in a battle to preserve certain principles and values .
strangely enough , these very principles and values existed even before political movements such as the social democrats and the christian democrats .
it is not yet single because of the delays in public and private services ; it is not single because of the delays in achieving transparency and in introducing the use of modern technologies to make the markets fully functional in terms of information technology and , therefore , in terms of efficiency .
now then , we have to increase productivity in these areas sufficiently to sustain economic growth without inflation .
we may be breaking this debate on lisbon down into constituent parts , but we have a clear objective constantly in mind : we have to create the economic and social conditions needed for sustained growth .
i warn you that here our direct , and i stress , direct commitment at public and the other different levels is to build telecommunications highways , the roads for these new vehicles to run on .
the market , private individuals and companies will build the vehicles , but it is our responsibility to build the new highways .
there is therefore a very clear strategy for lisbon .
it is clear that , at this point , the three processes have to be combined .
rapporteur . ( sv ) mr president , ever since the brundtland report of 1987 , it has been clear that a policy which emphasises only economic growth cannot be sustained in the longer term .
the challenge for us all consists in integrating social and environmental considerations .
this is something we ought to support , a fact which also emerges from amendment no 11 .
as regards this regulation on the environmental dimension in the development process in developing countries , the council has broadly taken up the amendments that we presented and voted upon at first reading .
whenever i have been involved in development work i have observed that this approach has , thankfully , over the past few years been taking the place of the old paternalistic aid-oriented ideology , where the so-called developed countries thought development was a matter of transferring our way of life to the less developed countries .
since integrating the environmental dimension is a long-term commitment , i am in principle against limiting the duration of this regulation .
the previous regulation expired at the end of 1999 .
however , in view of the council 's views on this matter and in order to avoid conciliation , we support the compromise proposal put forward by parliament for a split comitology procedure whereby decisions on strategic guidelines for the actions to be financed would be subject to a management procedure while project approval for the limited number of projects over eur 2 million would be subject to an advisory procedure .
hence the commission supports , in principle , amendment no 16 but prefers the wording of amendments nos 19 , 20 and 21 .
the final important issue common to both this regulation and the forest regulation are the amendments concerning bank guarantees .
for this reason the commission took a decision in july 1999 only to require bank guarantees for advance payments of over eur 1 million .
for these reasons the commission does not support the proposed amendment no 10 on bank guarantees .
with the aim of finding a compromise solution which would make it possible to avoid conciliation the commission could support amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 , although it considers that they bring little added value to the text overall .
amendment no 12 proposes the raising of the threshold for submission of projects for consideration by the council from eur 2 million to eur 5 million .
given that most projects are already under eur 2 million this amendment is considered not relevant .
the amendments on procurement and access to the markets - amendments nos 13 and 14 - would mean a departure from standard and carefully agreed formulations .
lastly , we do not support amendment no 17 as it does not conform to the usual rules or formulation of regulations and is considered to be redundant .
the debate is closed .
i would be happy to speak now , but there is another report first .
the aim of the regulation under discussion today is to establish measures designed to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests in developing countries , in order to guarantee the funding necessary to maintain and make progress with the actions and projects which have been under way for this purpose since the adoption of regulation 3062 , valid until december 1999 .
between 1990 and 1995 , over 56 million hectares of forest , distributed unevenly in various parts of the world , were lost but , without a doubt , this particularly affected developing countries as a result of the increased amount of land used for agricultural purposes , the construction of infrastructures , or due to natural disasters and fires .
we are therefore facing a problem of the first magnitude , not only for developing countries , but also for the whole planet and all the living beings that inhabit it , a problem that parliament has already spoken about at first reading at the end of the previous legislature on 5 may 1999 .
at first reading , parliament approved a total of 34 amendments of which the council , in its common position , has totally or partially taken up 18 .
finally , i wish to request the support of the house with regard to amendments nos 1 , 7 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 , and a negative vote for the others , which , if successful , would break the agreement reached during the discussions with the commission and the council , which would oblige the whole negotiating process to begin again , paralyse some of the actions and projects under way and undoubtedly cause serious problems in the policy of conservation and rehabilitation of the tropical forests that we are trying to develop .
i believe that this is an absolutely fundamental point , especially when we are talking about the sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries .
but we also all know only too well that not all projects are as successful as we would like them to be .
the commission has thus acted appropriately in proposing a new council regulation on tropical forests and i fully subscribe to the thrust of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur , the pinpoint relevance of whose work i salute .
the council regulation of 1995 perhaps focused in too exclusive a manner on the protection of tropical forests and not sufficiently closely on the harnessing of their productive potential .
there are , of course , forests in which there are no production activities of any type , but there are also forests that continue to fulfil an economic function .
with reference to the amendments listed in the fernandez martin report , the commission 's position on the main horizontal issues is as follows .
financial reference account : the commission accepts the compromise figure of eur 249 million over seven years proposed in amendment no 9 .
comitology - the commission supports in principle amendment no 11 but prefers the wording of amendments nos 13 , 14 and 15 .
the amendments propose a split comitology arrangement with annual guidelines and priorities being subject to a management procedure while council would examine projects over eur 2 million under an advisory procedure .
concerning the other amendments , our position is as follows .
we do not support amendments nos 2 , 3 and 6 as we consider that the concepts have been taken into account elsewhere in the regulation following the first reading .
amendment no 1 is not supported as in our opinion it brings little added value .
thank you , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
i would mainly like to home in on one very important point .
northern countries apply a system in which this financial element is handled in a different way .
everyone pays , whether they dump their waste in the sea or dispose of it elsewhere .
it could also be 75 % , but there should at least be a minimum level , which should be quite inflexible .
the other system is the pure polluter-pays principle : anyone who lands ship-generated waste has to pay extra for doing so .
i believe that in the interests of protecting the environment and of a permanently thriving tourist industry in many countries of our community it is better to have an effective system .
in its first reading , parliament said by a large majority that the ships must make a significant contribution , of at least 90 % .
but a contribution might also only mean half a euro and in this case god knows this would be too little .
the same conditions must apply to all ships in port and only if parliament , the council and the commission create these conditions together will this fair competition be restored for ports and ships .
this consistent directive is an important step towards doing this .
i believe - for environmental and competition reasons as well as on the basis of the decisions made two months ago , in january - that we should adopt these amendments tomorrow , in the form in which we debated them in the committee , with a broad majority .
it is a sound directive .
as such , this directive is already coming into effect in a sense .
but should he pay an automatic full amount or a huge amount in port dues , or do we opt for a flexible arrangement , as is being proposed by the council .
in fact , ports in one and the same region apply different standards and percentages .
these days , we know that waste has a habit of reappearing , often in a more harmful form .
large-scale pollution of the sea and the destruction of the animal life caused by shipwrecked tankers always attracts a great deal of attention .
historic museum ships and ships which , proportionately , call at many ports over a short distance have to pay more often as a result .
waste management facilities are to be built in ports and i believe this directive will definitely help considerably in limiting marine pollution .
i also commend the work of the rapporteur , whose commitment reflects the strength of feeling within our committee to tackling this particular problem and a strong desire amongst parliamentarians of all parties to call a halt to this environmentally disastrous practice .
i particularly welcome his strong support for the proposal that , in the interests of improving pollution prevention and avoiding distortions of competition , the environmental requirements should apply to all ships irrespective of the flag they fly and adequate waste reception facilities be made available in all ports throughout the community .
for example , in the uk the system by which a ship pays the waste collector each time it uses waste facilities , without the port getting involved , works well .
the baltic is also more vulnerable from an environmental point of view than many other seas .
mr president , i would like to state briefly that i do not believe that anyone doubts the need for a directive to tackle this problem , which is a serious problem not only for europe , but for all seas world-wide , and that urgent and effective measures are therefore necessary .
i would like to make it clear that there is a series of principles which are universal , and with which we are therefore in complete agreement .
it is therefore on this issue that effective measures must be adopted because , if we are unable to adopt a suitable solution , then this directive will end in outright failure .
i believe that the work we are discussing today is a great step forward .
it is true that we are not specifying what percentage will have to be paid by the ships arriving at the port .
it is true that we are leaving a margin of flexibility for the member states , but it is also certain that , theoretically , 0.01 , although it is a contribution , is not necessarily a significant contribution .
that is , we are talking about practically all of the amendments and , in fact , the one we cannot accept - and i regret it , but i have already explained the reasons - is amendment no 6 .
many thanks , mr president .
this is obviously nonsense because if i am going to carry out inspections there have to be penalties which i can use as a threat in borderline cases .
that is why - as discussed in the committee - i have now tabled an amendment to amendment no 2 which contains no reference to the concept of ' harmonisation ' .
but when it comes to penalties and the word ' harmonisation ' a good many people in this room give a start - on the left and on the right of this house , both those higher up and those lower down .
the first principle , madam vice-president , is for us all to attach the same degree of importance to the need to improve road safety .
the second argument is that there must be no distortions of competition in the community .
we are all very aware that one of the priorities of the portuguese presidency , quite rightly , is to tackle the scandalous position regarding road safety in the european union .
i know they are familiar figures , but 43 000 citizens are killed each and every year .
lorry traffic on eu roads is growing both in numbers and in size and we think there are three reasons why this proposal is so important .
mr president , commissioner , reforming the directive on annual inspections of commercial vehicles is both urgent and vital .
roadside spot checks are also necessary because heavy goods vehicles from non-member countries often enter the area of the union in bad condition , presenting a serious risk to safety .
a considerable number of the vehicles in bad condition were from non-member countries .
what is happening in effect is the following : drivers who do not have an employment permit in an eu member state and who do not have a work contract in the third country benefit from the situation in that they drive a car which is registered in a particular country and which subsequently passes all inspections without a hitch , but do so outside the country where they are registered and where they carry out their activities .
in any case we must prevent this from being dealt with thoughtlessly , precisely because this is about a directive which provides for rules not only for heavy goods vehicles but also for commercial vehicles carrying people .
mr president , commissioner de palacio , the purpose of the proposal the commission made in 1998 is to replace the directive concerning annual inspections of commercial vehicles .
the simplest thing is to talk about the inspection of lorries , which is what we are really discussing , and perhaps we should all think about not only putting the technical title in some of our regulations , but also , in brackets , the colloquial title or one that is more readily comprehensible to our citizens , a matter which i shall transmit to the services and which we shall consider with a view to the future .
the proposal requires that the member states supplement the annual technical inspection by carrying out spot checks in proportion to the fleet of commercial vehicles in circulation annually on their roads .
these inspections may be carried out by the roadside , in ports and in other places where vehicles park , or , as is more frequent in the case of public service vehicles , on the operator 's premises .
this may in fact be the best way to effectively monitor the state of the vehicles in circulation on our roads .
i would like to say that the commission is aware that parliament is concerned that this proposal might lead to discrimination against certain transport contractors , or lorries from certain countries or even certain makes of vehicle , and that the intention of the principal recommendation of the rapporteur is for the fines imposed on operators by the member states to be harmonised as a condition of application of the directive .
we share this concern , but we consider that amendment no 2 is too drastic and , in this respect , we would support amendment no 3 which encompasses the spirit we are all aiming for , and which , at the same time , offers the necessary flexibility .
on the basis that great progress has been made in the past few years , i believe that a great deal still remains to be done , as the death of 42 000 - 43 000 european citizens on the roads is too high a figure and there is still an effort to be made .
the debate is closed .
opening of the session i declare resumed the 2000-2001 session of the european parliament .
agenda mr president , the second item on this morning ' s agenda is the recommendation for second reading on cocoa and chocolate products , for which i am the rapporteur .
i have been a member of this parliament for ten years and i have always been given notice , in my capacity as rapporteur , of any changes to the order of voting .
mr blokland , the officials of the competent services have informed me that your report will automatically be put to the vote tomorrow .
i now ask the house whether it agrees to postpone the vote on the lannoye report until tomorrow .
annual legislative programme ( continuation ) the next item is the continuation of the debate on the european commission ' s annual legislative programme for the year 2000 .
in our debate on the five-year plan , we established that this year would mark the dawn of the " decade of europe " , and it will therefore be a decisive year for the commission .
the explanation of the five-year plan provided us with the general reference framework and we have already set out the commission ' s work programme for the five-year term .
of course , and i am not saying this because i am here , in the presence of parliament , but because it seems particularly important , we have placed particular emphasis on parliament ' s responsibilities in the codecision procedure .
let us now look at the major points of this plan .
basically , the european citizens want justice in order to be able to live their daily lives in safety .
the commission will put forward practical security proposals for increased coordination between europe ' s police forces and for a common action to fight crime , because we have major problems to deal with , including some new ones .
we must re-establish this balance and protect the environment , while , at the same time , we have a binding obligation towards those whose livelihood depends on fishing , and they are concentrated in some of the least industrialised areas in europe .
in fact , these matters are of close relevance to all of our lives , and this is why parliament ' s role is absolutely crucial .
the other day , we closed the debate with the statement that the measure of our success will be the number of european citizens who vote in the next european elections .
i feel that the tangible measures i have touched on today are building up the citizens ' confidence in their government and fostering our relationship with them .
mr president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , we should use the commission ' s annual legislative programme for the year 2000 as an opportunity to reflect on the basic functions and tasks performed by the commission , as well as those performed by the european institutions as a whole .
in two months - on 9 may that is - we will have occasion to remember robert schumann , who on 9 may 1950 , made the splendid proposal for a european coal and steel community .
the boundaries between fairness , equal treatment , and the law of the european union - of the european community - are sometimes blurred .
when the president-in-office makes a tour of the european capitals in preparation for a summit meeting - which has been standard practice for many years - but leaves one capital out and asks the representative of this country to come to brussels , then i do not consider that to be consistent with the principles of the european union and the concepts underlying the community of law . ( applause from the right ) that is why i would like to make the following point to the commission : mr president of the commission , so far we have had no cause to criticise you .
many people understand the concept of subsidiarity to be the lever used to lower the european tasks to local authority , regional or national level .
this may be appropriate in individual cases and indeed we must assess , in the case of every legislative procedure , whether the task in question would be best managed at national , regional or local level .
but the concept of subsidiarity also means that the european union must take on these tasks if they cannot reasonably be undertaken at national , regional or local level .
mr president , you have the right of initiative .
there is the agreement reached with the commission on 15 september last year , in which the commission committed itself in broad terms to delivering the goods by and large when parliament asks it for legislative initiatives .
on this basis , and speaking on behalf of our group , i can tell you that we will do our bit - where we can - not just for a strong europe , but also for a strong commission , whose powers we are prepared to defend against the council of ministers .
accordingly , we are dependent , in the interests of europe , on there being sound cooperation and dialogue between the commission and the european parliament , and that is why we intend to do what we can to support your policies for the year 2000 .
mr president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , if the citizens of europe are looking for this kind of europe , then brussels , and especially the commission , is where they will look .
in the light of this responsibility , mr president of the commission , when you made your last speech here in this house , you proposed concentrating more heavily on core tasks .
this could also be described in terms of carrying out or implementing the subsidiarity principle .
we want to reinforce europe ' s role on the international stage in a clear and unequivocal manner , just as we want to increase its competitiveness .
above all , we must aim to make europe more socially aware , to create a europe of equal opportunities , and to increase security and quality of life within europe .
if you make these your goals , mr president of the commission , then we will be behind you every step of the way .
we decided , in our wisdom , to draft a resolution which may not be quite as long but which provides you with a whole host of proposals and some counter-proposals .
mr president of the commission , i would just like to pick up again on your expression " decisive year " .
you are in the process of drafting a communication strategy for the enlargement of the european union .
there has been much talk about concentrating on core tasks and of achieving better quality of european legislation rather than more quantity .
it is because we want to give more purpose and prominence to this procedure that the eldr intends not to sign the current eight-page list - not because we object to the contents , but because we think this is in danger of becoming an annual ritual performance without substance and real meaning .
the programme submitted to us for this year is generous , to say the least .
according to the terms of chapter i of title 11 of the treaty , in particular , i am thinking specifically of problems to do with working conditions and improving the working environment .
this shows a general decline in working conditions in a number of important sectors .
for example , in the environmental field , we have a white paper on civil liability in environmental matters .
this is an important step forwards , but let me remind you all the same that this white paper is the follow-up to a parliament resolution adopted in 1994 , that is to say , six years ago .
and after the white paper we shall probably have to wait a long time before we have the directive .
this shows just how slow the procedure is and , in order to give reasons for this slowness , i feel it would be important to have an interim report .
today , a proposal for a directive on electrical and electronic waste has been announced .
president prodi , allow me to express my apprehension and alarm at the line taken in the work programme for 2000 , a year which you described as a decisive year , and not only because of the lack of genuinely innovative proposals contained therein .
mr president , i welcome the broad thrust of the proposals published by the commission in its annual legislative programme for the year 2000 .
the most important issues that will be addressed this year will be the reform of the eu decision-making procedures , so that the enlargement process can take place in a streamlined and structured manner .
as a member of the parliament from the constituency of connaught ulster in ireland , a peripheral part of this union , i strongly believe in real and tangible representation for smaller member states within the eu structures .
at present , the five larger member states have two posts within the european commission and there is one each for the smaller member states .
whatever the reform , it is vitally important that smaller member states retain their right to nominate a member of the commission .
from an irish perspective , i strongly believe that member state governments must have a veto over tax changes at eu level .
no changes at present can be agreed at eu level concerning tax policies without the unanimous support of all eu member states .
i believe this is an important right , which should be left in the domain of national member states .
in my own country , the tax regime is quite innovative in many ways .
this cannot be said of many of the other member states .
any proposal to give the european council the power of qualified majority voting on justice and home affairs would be , i believe , very unwise .
of course we want to ensure by the year 2002 that the countries that suffered most when the common fisheries policy was put in place in 1983 will in future receive a fair and equitable share of the resources .
the commission must support educational and training programmes , to ensure that business structures take account of the opportunities which can be secured from the internet and e-commerce in general .
however , in refusing to talk - albeit only bilaterally - and thereby causing a breakdown in communication , the 14 eu partner states are putting this self-same " ability to function " at great risk .
the commission must not stand idly by in a situation of this kind .
with this in mind , i would ask you , president prodi , to get personally involved in setting up a crisis meeting between the heads of government of austria and the 14 eu partner states , so as to bring about detente and normalisation of relations .
mr president , i would first of all like to thank the president of the commission , mr prodi , for his work programme .
the first chapter of the work programme is entitled : " europe , its neighbours and the world " and rightly so .
we know that there are funds available in tacis and echo within the european union .
i should now like to make a few comments on economic and social matters .
yesterday we discussed the lisbon summit for the economic and social revival of europe .
shared objectives for growth in order to enable us to move towards full employment are something i have hoped and prayed for .
in this connection , i should also like to applaud commissioner philippe busquin ' s initiative to create a european research area .
but , in a world where 1.5 billion people are still living without electricity , providing every citizen in the world with access to the internet society is not going to be achieved in the immediate future .
the most significant challenge for the human race is to avoid the separation between information-rich countries and information-poor countries , to prevent the advent of societies where , in the felicitous phrase coined by my friend , claude desama , the digital divide will be the new social divide .
the annual legislative programme is the most concrete manifestation of the european commission 's key constitutional and political power , namely the exclusive right of initiative .
a 15-page general summary does not exactly do justice to the 500 initiatives cited in the annex .
in future , the eldr will therefore insist that there is clear justification for , and specialised parliamentary debate on , all measures announced in the work programme .
in particular , we will be looking for evidence that each new proposal has been properly tested against the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and we will be looking for sector-specific debates in the european parliament 's own specialised committees .
mr president , i would like to thank the president of the commission for giving us two speeches within the space of 24 hours .
last night he clearly pointed out that we have the prospect of a successful european economy ahead of us for the next two or three years and quite clearly , if we have unexpectedly higher-than-normal growth , then that will help us in the endeavours of this annual legislative programme .
on behalf of my group i would like to caution the commission not to go ahead at this stage with shifting agricultural expenditure from category 1 to category 4 .
this is what bedevilled the relationship between our parliament and the previous commission : the fact that we , under the treaties , have access and the right of access to all information in principle .
you say , for example , that you wish to take account of environmental policy in all the other policy areas .
you must not neglect to mention this in your other papers .
we will gauge how successful you have been , mr prodi , on a weekly , monthly and annual basis .
you see , mr prodi , it is a lot more simple than you might fear .
where , in that case , do you find a legal basis for this view , and do you believe that such a principle can suppress the ombudsman ' s right to express himself freely in the press ?
working in the european parliament , we can see that harmonisation of the existing legislation on civil law is essential .
it is creating freedom of movement and freedom to settle , and an economic area which affords opportunities for unlimited economic activity - and thus also for unlimited illegal economic activity incidentally .
in order to combat this , the eu aims , in turn , to create a european police force .
if the commission has the courage to say that it is prepared to enter into a confrontation with the council , as the guardian of the treaties and the future integration of europe , then i would hope that a majority of this parliament would support you in this .
however , i would like to hear a clear commitment from the commission that it will seek a solution for the speedy transposition into community law of the recommendations of the regional and international fishing organisations .
delays in transposition are an endemic problem in the commission .
for example , we have been waiting since 1996 for the incorporation into community legislation of the ban on landings from honduras and belize , or , for example , since 1998 for the control of the fishing capacity for albacore tuna in community waters .
the commission is always accusing member states of not transposing its decisions and directives into their national legislation , while it is doing exactly the same thing on an international level .
it is clear that the proposal presented by the commission on the communication on the reform of international organisations , with a view to speeding up the process , tries to separate the legislative processes both of parliament and of the council .
from the point of view of this institution , there are serious doubts as to whether this is the best way to resolve this problem .
i hope that president prodi will now commit himself to resolving this problem once and for all , and that , in any event , parliament will always be connected with the legislative procedure for incorporating the recommendations of international fishing organisations into community legislation .
while the delors commission took us from the single european act to the union treaty and an extensive enlargement of the european community , i hope that the prodi commission will be the commission of a social europe , the commission which ensures that economic development does not go hand in hand with social discrimination , but rather with social progress .
to this end , i hope that the commission will bear in mind the points of view being expressed in the european parliament .
finally , mr president , i would like to remind you of a text which is mentioned in the commission communication .
today the commission is to speak of the first document in this field , and i hope that , in doing so , it will take account of the requirements of these outermost regions of the community .
the commission is the guardian of the treaties .
but the unwritten rights of the member states are there in the background of the treaties and i believe it is high time that the commission came to see itself more as the guardian of the rights of the member states in the course of its work .
i would urge you , mr president of the commission , to also become the advocate for the rights of the member states , for what frustrates us on occasions about the way the commission works , is its attempt , under the pressure of getting things done , to lay claim to certain rights .
therefore , mr president , please cast yourself in the role of advocate for the rights of the member states .
mr president , mr president of the commission , you spoke of a detailed programme in your introduction .
mr president of the commission , i am in favour of creating a european defence identity , including the military dimension thereof , and i welcome with open arms the outcome of the unofficial meeting of the defence ministers in sintra .
the commission must take responsibility , launch initiatives , and submit projects in this sphere , which needs to be developed from scratch .
following the helsinki decisions , we in the european parliament demanded a catalogue of measures and a detailed schedule , which would enable turkey to be prepared for fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria - in particular the political criteria - in a concrete and structured manner .
mr president of the commission , on reading your white paper on the reform of the commission , it is clearly apparent that the guiding principle , the philosophy behind this reform , is something very vague which we cannot accept in this parliament .
allow me to give you an example , since the speaking time allotted to me does not give me much opportunity to expand on this idea .
from the point of view of this parliament , this type of arrangement cannot be allowed .
thank you , mr prodi , for your presentation and your documentation .
seattle failed because the united states , in particular , appeared unable to grasp the legitimacy of policies such as environmental protection , the preservation of rural communities through the common agricultural policy , animal welfare , health concerns and social rights .
we had a white paper on innovation some years ago - what has happened since ?
i welcome the forthcoming communication on enterprise , but i hope that past work will also be looked at before we go ahead with more .
the reform of the commission , mr prodi , should not only protect the financial interests of the community .
go for it , mr prodi .
we need to modernise and strengthen that legislation , not in order to stop globalisation or the deepening of the internal market - of course not - but in order to make sure that we manage the changes these things bring , through a spirit of partnership in all of our workplaces , large and small , within the european union .
that means that we need to pursue with vigour the general framework on information and consultation at work .
we have outstanding promises for legislation on homeworking , on teleworking ; we have the yawning gap of social security in atypical work that has been outstanding for almost a decade now ; we have the promise of a specific directive on muscular-skeletal injuries outstanding from the last medium-term social action programme .
you have our full backing on this as well , for money laundering is partly what motivates organised crime .
here , i am sorry to say , we are lagging behind police cooperation by some 10 to 20 years , and we urgently need a catching-up programme .
you have our support in matters of transparency and when it comes to the momentum created at tampere , which we want to keep going , and you have our support because there is a possibility of bringing pressure to bear on the council .
we , along with other groups in this parliament , are still waiting for the commission to present a proposal laying down the practical arrangements for the implementation of the code of conduct that would facilitate cooperation and proper scrutiny .
when , mr president , will the commission go further on spatial planning and submit new proposals to develop the decision taken at the informal council meetings , notably at potsdam and tampere ?
regarding transport and tourism , i and my group welcome the proposals reinforcing transport safety although we need more concrete proposals on road safety and in particular , the issue of blood-alcohol levels and speed limits .
we also want progress on both the working time directive and the slot allocation at airport directive , as well as measures to end the misery in air traffic control delays in europe at this moment .
i regret that transport issues do not appear to have been taken seriously into account in the enlargement chapter and would encourage the commission to present proposals to ensure better coordination between structural actions and instruments and the phare and tacis programmes .
i also want to insist that parliament ' s views and wishes on postal services , often stated in this chamber , are taken fully into account in any new proposals .
be that as it may ; today , mr prodi , you mentioned fisheries .
mr president , i should like to address the commission in order to express my wish that the year 2000 should enable us to make progress in the general direction of coherence , particularly in the field of agriculture .
so why , after so often declaring that the wto must incorporate social and environmental regulatory mechanisms , and that the european union intends to guarantee advantages for ldcs , does the commission still adhere exclusively to the prospect of market liberalisation in this sector ?
you will be aware that , as a result of this crisis , which has now lasted for more than two years , many independent producers find that they have been relegated to being mere casual workers for firms or other large-scale producers .
in december , she succeeded in great style , working together with the finnish presidency , in opening the railway system .
she is also working very hard on something you , mr president , brought up back in july last year , namely the issue of an effective european air traffic control system .
mr barnier ' s proposals are equally impressive , for there has been excellent cooperation between mr barnier and parliament on interreg and urban .
i particularly wanted to congratulate president prodi on emphasising the issue of governance in the overall planning process .
the outbursts in seattle and davos for instance were not just about the issues - they were very much about a populace and a citizenry trying to engage with a new set of institutions and being not quite sure of how to do so .
we cannot develop a whole series of initiatives based on , for instance , small businesses or health on-line or whatever without educating people to be literate in those technologies .
can i just , in finishing , say that we will have started four new programmes by the end of this year - media , culture 2000 , youth and socrates .
i hope that we will evaluate the work that was done in the previous programmes to ensure that these are not just another new layer but are actually a new beginning for the programmes that can present us with an educated european citizenry .
mr president , i must object in the strongest possible terms to the proposal , within this legislative programme , to reduce the agricultural budget by eur 300 million for the purpose of rebuilding kosovo .
when farmers are going bankrupt every day in the uk , when the level of suicides amongst farmers and farm-workers has reached unprecedented levels , when the economy of rural britain is in spiral decline , how can i explain to them that eur 300 million would be better off spent in kosovo ?
i urge honourable members , when we come to vote on this issue , to vote against this proposal .
mr president , i should like to return to the subject of the annual legislative programme , after that digression on the european budget .
that is a very good example , but what happened to the other five ?
there is no obligation on the commission to respond , but we would expect the commission , in a spirit of cooperation with parliament , to look at these proposals carefully and to respond in most cases .
we were happy with the compromise that article 192 represented , but if this compromise is felt not to be working , and if it is not seen to be satisfactory from parliament 's point of view , there will inevitably be pressure for the treaty to be amended to give parliament a full right of initiative , something the commission does not want because it sets great store by its monopoly of the right of initiative .
the only thing i would ask is that you view my speech as just part of an overall debate which is taking shape day by day .
many of you have rightly expressed the opinion that tourism is a subject which is missing , which , as has been said , is a larger employer than agriculture .
however , we also have a major opportunity , which was welcomed by a great many of you today , in that our economy looks set to be sound for at least two or three years .
the white paper on governability , on the one hand , and the difficulties of balancing the budget , on the other , are the two pillars upon which we must base a joint political action for the short term .
we cannot stifle these countries at such a decisive moment as this .
thank you very much , mrs thors .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
mr president , i think it useful to remind you that we voted on this proposed directive relating to cocoa and chocolate products at first reading in october 1997 .
in fact , therefore , the council of ministers has taken a great deal of time to reach an agreement on its common position , since it was not until october 1999 that this common position was available .
to tell the truth , i feel that this is not an acceptable compromise and that the use of vegetable fats has been made an acceptable commonplace while not giving consumers sufficient information , ignoring the problem of the analysis method ' s lack of reliability , removing subsidiarity and complying with the requirements of multinational chocolate manufacturers , while ignoring the concerns of small specialist chocolate-makers and smes , consumer rights and the future of the millions of farmers involved in cocoa production .
it is true that there is an annex restricting the list of permitted vegetable fats to six substances , which include shea nut butter , which is a product gathered in some poor countries of africa , such as mali and burkina faso .
let me cite , in particular , the compulsory identification of any vegetable fat content on the front of the product ; the requirement for preliminary validation of a reliable analysis method ; the principle of subsidiarity , which was removed by the council even though it had been proposed by the commission from the outset , the rejection of methods of genetic engineering and chemical methods - i would point out that the committee on the environment , public health and consumer protection is in favour of rejecting the use of genetic engineering - and , finally , last but not least , a proposal for a serious impact study , which will not be carried out long after the directive comes into force but rather as soon as it comes into force , on the socio-economic situation of the cocoa-producing countries who are likely to be the first victims of this legislation .
admittedly , it conflicts with the council ' s common position , but i believe that parliament ' s role is to play a full part in the codecision process and not to bow down before the decisions of the council , even if they are the product of a very long gestation period of two years .
we are getting one , two and a half years after the directive has entered into force .
mr president , as shadow rapporteur for the ppe-de group , i am proud of the fact that virtually all amendments from first reading , which have impacted so heavily on the common position , are the product of our own hands .
mr president , it has taken us twenty-five years to come to the point of a common position which represents a real compromise .
if i came from burkina faso or mali or one of the countries that produced beurre de karite and i was told that the women ' s cooperatives who collect the shea nuts that are a substantial part of their exports to europe , will be banned or put at risk because they are seen to be stooges of the multinationals , i would be very angry indeed .
for example , we need to be aware of the precarious situation of the countries where the ingredients for chocolate originate .
the council ' s common position as it is now before us attempts to accommodate all these interests .
mr president , commissioner , since we cannot reject the directive on chocolate which is , as it stands , unacceptable , parliament is duty bound , at the very least , to improve it .
in the first place , we must ask ourselves what is the relevance of this directive which is going to change the definition of chocolate .
the european parliament must be aware that the codex alimentarius , which dictates the composition of chocolate internationally , stipulates that it is made from cocoa butter .
what right , then , has the european union , with regard to the food traditions of some member states who incorrectly describe products including vegetable fats other than cocoa butter as ' chocolate ' , to enforce a change in the very definition of what chocolate is ?
in order to avoid chaos in producing countries , the european parliament must demand an impact study on the export situation .
mr president , commissioner , as all chocolate-lovers know , proper chocolate is made from cocoa butter .
the addition of any other fats spoils the flavour .
indeed the 1973 directive , which prohibited the use of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter , was intended to safeguard this quality .
at first reading , parliament got involved in a dangerous procedure of accepting the directive subject to certain conditions .
the council leapt into the breach , adopting its common position , which recognises the designation ' chocolate ' even for products with other vegetable fats added .
at second reading , however , the european parliament can thwart this directive which would have serious implications if it were applied .
acp cocoa-producing countries would experience a considerable reduction in their market and their income .
this would involve more than usd 300 million for the ivory coast alone .
we have therefore tabled a motion to reject the council ' s common position .
mr president , consumer protection is our prime concern .
the issue of the directive on the production and sale of chocolate is thus just as important .
the european union must lead the way in simplification , confidence , authenticity and respect for differences .
since 1973 , european legislation has stipulated that the designation ' chocolate ' must be given to products containing only cocoa and cocoa butter .
some member states have enjoyed a derogation from this law since acceding to the union .
in a shop in my own home town , in reims , i wish to be able to purchase a bar of chocolate produced according to the gastronomic traditions of my own country , without having to inspect the product on all sides and to put my glasses on in order to check its quality .
then , a few years ago , great britain , which gave the world meat served with jam , hooligans and adam smith , started to feed cows on cadavers and to manufacture chocolate without cocoa .
just as in the case of port we are not told ' south african counterfeit ' , for cocoa we are not told ' counterfeit ' .
it is a legal obligation with regard to the ivory coast and african farmers .
in the light of these principles , we are unable to endorse the aims of this directive .
to reinforce the point again : there is already chocolate containing the disputed 5 % of other vegetable fats , and there are countries where it is prohibited to add these fats , with the exception of cocoa butter .
the same could apply to chocolate as i see it .
there is an open letter that expresses the thought that the chocolate directive is the last nail in the coffin of 11 million people in western africa .
rightly or wrongly , it is said that this parliament should not accept any amendments at the risk of jeopardising this delicate compromise .
each common position always strikes a delicate balance between national interests , environmental conditions and social considerations .
it is wonderful , but millions of people in europe also enjoy the british product .
the harsh fact is that none of us , belgians , french or british , are paying the cocoa growers a fair price for their efforts and the contrast between our enjoyment of this luxury product and their poverty is shameful .
it means proper information for consumers and , because a number of countries have so far only been familiar with chocolate in which cocoa butter is used as vegetable fat , it may be relevant for consumers in these countries to learn that another vegetable fat has been used .
on the other hand , i do not think that it can , or ought to be , implied that chocolate in which , for example , shea nuts are used as vegetable fat is necessarily of poorer quality than chocolate in which the vegetable fat used is cocoa butter .
a ban of this kind is the only means through which we can give developing countries a guarantee that they can go on at all exporting the goods which they produce by natural means .
indeed there would be a great deal to say about the attitude of some delegations within the council .
the consumer will not be able to make an informed choice .
this is what we achieved in the european parliament at first reading .
that is why big industry is so much in favour of them .
thank you very much , mrs grossetete .
cocoa and chocolate products ( continuation ) mr president , mr de croo , after debating for 25 years , we are gathered here once again to discuss chocolate , such a polemical debate for such a sweet subject .
moreover , if we must have harmonisation , for a consumer that is ever more demanding about the quality of what he eats and who , incidentally , has asked for nothing and has absolutely nothing to gain in this matter , in my view , the absolute minimum would be to limit the quality label or any other label of excellence to 100 % cacao chocolate , real chocolate .
if the european union lays down rules governing the production of chocolate , then these should be geared to protecting the cocoa farmers in the third world , especially in africa .
if i could share one brief historical fact with the house concerning my own country : the first mention of solid chocolate being sold in the uk was in 1657 when a frenchman opened a shop in london .
so if it was legal in 1657 for a frenchman to sell his chocolate in london , can i suggest to the house that , some 350 years later , it should at long last be legal for an englishman , or indeed any other eu national , to sell his chocolate throughout the eu including the country of the rapporteur .
if we direct developments in such a way as to create a situation in which there is only the one tradition of chocolate manufacture within the eu , cocoa-producing countries will be in danger of losing out since there would be a great risk of total chocolate consumption within the eu appreciably decreasing .
let us not , therefore , make the same mistake as dom mintoff .
the proposal that information about the contents of certain forms of chocolate should be provided on the front of the packaging is discriminatory and completely unjustified .
we now have the opportunity to bring the 25 year-old european chocolate war to an honourable end for all the parties concerned .
mr president , i am belgian and i am not opposed to the common position .
the producers of cocoa beans , namely the small farmers in the poor third-world countries , are vulnerable .
we need to keep a close eye on them and this is why i am in favour of a study being carried out by the commission on the effects of the directive , no more than two years after the introduction of this directive .
through the common position , the free movement of cocoa and chocolate products was introduced , but with strict conditions governing production and consumer information .
they are all of tropical origin and produced in acp countries .
the presence of these substances must be indicated separately but in the same area of the packaging as the product name and list of ingredients .
the common position involves a real compromise and is a clear advance on the legislation currently applicable .
as you will all remember , during the last part-session here in strasbourg , the european parliament debated and adopted a resolution in which it condemned and stated its concern at the difficult conditions under which journalists work in angola .
following consultation with other members of the committee on development and cooperation i appeal to you to postpone the voting on this regulation until tomorrow .
hence , i would ask you , as rapporteur , to follow my recommendation for postponement . ( the vote was postponed until the following day ) recommendation for second reading ( a5-0048 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation , on the council common position for adopting a european parliament and council regulation on measures to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries [ 12487 / 1 / 1999 - c5-0014 / 2000 - 1999 / 0015 ( cod ) ] ( rapporteur : mr fernandez martin ) .
just to repeat what my colleague , poul nielson , stated yesterday , the commission 's position on the amendments is as follows .
the commission supports amendment no 11 , in principle , and supports the following amendments : amendments nos 4 , 7 , 9 , 10 , 13 , 14 and 15 .
the european union and its member states in fact have some responsibility for the conservation of an ecosystem which is essential to the environmental balance of the entire planet .
our responsibility also stems from our status as consumers : many consumer products in europe come from these regions and generally have an adverse impact on the forest .
finally , the european union actually includes large areas of tropical forest within the territory of its member states , particularly france .
the department of french guyana , in particular , is almost entirely covered by this type of vegetation .
in particular , the important thing is to enable real development in these areas , while respecting the culture and traditions of the inhabitants , without setting them in stone in a purely passive ecological conservation mode .
the european union can make a contribution in this field if it can manage to coordinate efforts and know-how without seeking to control or foist a single strategy on member states .
recommendation for second reading of the bouwman report ( a5-0043 / 2000 ) the recent wreck of the erika oil tanker off the coast of brittany increased the awareness among the general public of the problem , among others , of ' degassing ' , the illegal discharge of waste oils , detritus or other waste associated with vessel cargoes , which some unscrupulous ship ' s captains undertake while at sea .
just today , in fact , the european parliament is examining , at second reading , a proposed directive which has been under discussion for two years , which draws the implications of the 1973 marpol international convention , ratified by all member states , to the community level .
we know only too well the pressure of competition in maritime transport .
it forms part of the overall community strategy for waste management and requires all ports to provide appropriate waste-disposal facilities , adequate for the needs of vessels .
the system generally applied is the one governed by the ' polluter pays ' principle , a principle which is outstanding in terms of its inefficiency !
such an alternative is offered to us in an amendment which i supported .
this system would inevitably encourage vessels to dispose of their operational waste and cargo residues in port rather than degassing at sea , a deplorable practice which is commonplace nowadays .
everyone knows that some vessels even took advantage of the pollution caused by the wreck of the erika to discharge their waste at sea .
there are , however , examples of good practice , because the countries around the baltic sea have already been operating in this way since 1998 .
this is why the european parliament and its committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , confirming the outcome of the first reading in the previous legislative period , have proposed that every vessel entering a member state port should bear 90 % of the costs of waste disposal and management , regardless of the actual use made of the facilities .
if the port facilities were in fact financed ( at a high level ) only by the vessels actually using them , then there would be grounds for fearing that many vessels would avoid these charges , since dumping waste at sea would prove less costly .
in the last week of february , 39 instances of illegal degassing were identified in the vicinity of the wreck of the erika alone .
for all these reasons the uen group , recalling its agreement with the council ' s common position , is now opposing the text of this report which has twisted the principles of the common position .
recommendation for second reading of the piecyk report ( a5-0040 / 2000 ) - ( fr ) the european parliament has today expressed its opinion of the proposed directive on the technical roadside inspection of the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles .
it is indeed essential to improve the level of safety and to mitigate the environmental impact of these vehicles , the volume of which is constantly increasing .
the convention has already started the process of drafting the charter upon the principal lines that we propose and upon the presumption that the final result will be binding .
a strong vote for this resolution will assist the convention to complete its task and set criteria for this parliament ' s final appraisal of the results .
the drafting of the charter will certainly be informed by the application of that principle , but it is crucial that the charter reflects modern european society with all its pluralism and with all its diversity .
there is also a controversy over the relationship between the new european union charter and the existing european convention of human rights .
dubious though some of the things emanating from this continent may have been , in terms of democracy and human rights this continent has sent out a message of indisputable global resonance .
that is why we cannot rest content with the fact that all member states have signed up to the european convention on human rights when the european union has not .
that is why it should no longer be deemed appropriate for eu law to infringe national law , the constitutional law of the member states that is , when the union itself does not have a clear and comprehensive system of fundamental rights .
it should therefore disturb us that fresh fundamental rights conflicts are breaking out in the spheres of information and communication science and biotechnology , but europe does not have a consensus on fundamental rights with which to provide answers .
the european parliament has a long , unbroken tradition when it comes to defending fundamental and human rights .
these demands are in keeping with this tradition and they are in the nature of things , in the nature of fundamental rights ; in other words , no rights are to be promised unless they are to be made law for the citizens .
all the policies , institutions and bodies of the european union must be subject to this charter of fundamental rights .
we cannot do without this charter of fundamental rights if we are to construct a european democracy in this supranational area .
human dignity is sacrosanct ! . ( it ) madam president , the european parliament is at last about to vote on the report , which has taken a great deal of time to prepare , on the drafting of the european union ' s charter of fundamental rights , and i hope that the patient work of the rapporteurs will be rewarded in this chamber .
a catalogue of fundamental rights which are recognised as binding by the european institutions also sets out the duty of the citizens to respect them .
the european union is a civil , legal area of freedom , which is not just economic freedom but also freedom of security and justice , in a huge territory which , in the past , has been the site of repeated bloodshed .
i hope that we are to have a modernised version of the wording of article 6 of the council of europe ' s convention in which our already existing rights are listed in a summarised and concentrated form , with modern biotechnology and data protection added .
madam president , as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs , i will mainly focus on the issue of social fundamental rights .
these rights should therefore be included in the first part of the charter .
in the case of other social fundamental rights , there should be a link between the way fundamental rights are worded and the effects thereof on the individual .
no more so , in actual fact , than is the guarantee of freedom of expression or a fair hearing .
i would also like to comment on international treaties with regard to social fundamental rights .
in amendment no 22 to the duff / voggenhuber report , i argued that a reference to the echr should be placed in article 6 of the treaty of the union , and that a reference to the to the esc should be placed in the ilo ' s and the united nations ' core conventions .
another amendment , regarding a more far-reaching alternative , amendment no 23 , stipulates that the echr , as well these social international standards should be acceded to .
these legally binding instruments have proven to be a shot in the arm in the equal treatment of men and women in the member states .
an explicit recognition in the forthcoming european union charter of fundamental rights of a wholesale ban on gender-based discrimination and with it , inclusion in the treaties themselves , would then also create the necessary scope for a new eu policy to promote the position of women in all relevant social fields .
madam president , in many discussions on fundamental rights , the rights of women are often relegated to a specific rights ' category .
the aim of this report is to give our fellow members , who are members of the convention , a clear and specific mandate detailing the expectations of the european parliament and to give our fellow citizens clear evidence of our commitment to ensuring that their fundamental rights are properly respected by the institutions of the union .
the area of competence of the committee on petitions justifies its interest in the framing of the charter .
so our opinion stresses two key points which the rapporteurs , moreover , seem to share .
firstly , the necessary visibility of the charter as a point of reference for the citizens .
this necessitates clear and concise drafting within a single , comprehensible text .
the natural outcome of this determination is the inclusion of the future charter among the treaties .
in conclusion , let me say that it is necessary to make a qualitative leap in the protection of fundamental rights .
madam president , no doubt the council would like to hear the opinion of the political groups , which seems to me to be very healthy .
madam president , we are holding this debate at exactly the right time .
the convention which is drafting the charter on fundamental rights has begun its work and i believe that we are already doing so at cruise speed .
it is therefore important for this parliament to establish a mandate for the members of the delegation representing it and also to establish - and this seems to me to be essential - which political objectives this parliament will pursue by means of this charter of fundamental rights .
i believe that parliament should send a very clear message : the charter of fundamental rights is a supplement to these rights guaranteed in the constitutions .
the report which we are debating today and voting on tomorrow also seems to explain very clearly what the political objectives of this parliament are .
however , it seems to me essential that parliament bears this objective in mind with regard to the drawing up of the charter .
it is also important to state , as this report does , that absolutely no harm will be done to the protection of fundamental rights as laid down in existing provisions .
i repeat that what we want is to provide the european citizens with a supplementary guarantee when it comes to the application of community law .
i believe that , by affirming the indivisibility of fundamental rights , as this resolution does , or affirming their innovative nature , we are taking positive steps towards an improvement in the living conditions of the european citizens .
i therefore hope , madam president , that tomorrow ' s vote will support the rapporteurs ' good work with a massive vote in favour of this report .
the resolution on which we shall be voting tomorrow is certainly not intended to give a binding mandate to our fellow members , myself included , in the context of the convention , since we have already commenced work .
in the first place , what do we expect to obtain from this exercise ?
frankly , ladies and gentlemen , if the objective were to assemble a convention , original in form and composition , as we have today , in order merely to come up with an announcement of a text bearing the signatures of the presidents of the three institutions , then i think we would be on the wrong track .
my second point is to do with its content .
our resolution does not say much with regard to content , but parliament has already had , on at least three occasions , the opportunity to state what it expected from a charter on fundamental rights .
secondly , if the convention must confine itself to regurgitating all or part of the european convention on human rights in order to void the question of whether or not the union should adhere to it of all meaning , then i believe once again that we would be on the wrong track .
but , these specifically are the issues involved in the work which will be carried out within the convention and , on behalf of my group , i wish to state the importance we shall accord the charter ' s content in terms of such questions .
in this spirit , i fully support the proposal which ieke van den burg has just made : if the union is questioning its adherence to the european convention on human rights , then it must also question its adherence to the european social charter .
it would enable fundamental rights to be recognised in due form , and given the place they deserve in our internal legal system , a system which today is observed with a great deal of attention by citizens within the european union , certainly , but also by the countries who wish to join the union .
fundamental rights are of secondary importance in treaties these days .
finally , madam president , it is essential for the european union to accede to the european convention on human rights , for strasbourg must become stronger , not weaker .
ladies and gentlemen , the charter of fundamental rights must be an essential stage in the construction of europe .
france , the self-proclaimed home of human rights , must absolutely take advantage of its presidency during the second half of 2000 in order to table this amendment of the treaties .
for example , how acceptable is it that an algerian who has worked and paid taxes in france for thirty years may not vote in local elections whilst a european resident for six months in another european country can take part ?
it is high time that we tackled these shortcomings in the protection of fundamental rights .
firstly , because after many years we are at last getting down to a project that many committed citizens , non-governmental organisations , and various political forces , not to mention this house , have long been calling for .
firstly : in terms of standards , the charter of fundamental rights must not fall behind the fundamental rights in existence in our countries , as it must not fall behind those enshrined in the european convention on human rights .
secondly , it is only natural that the charter should encompass all the policies of the union ; community law as well as the second and third pillars , and , as such , make it incumbent on all bodies and institutions to preserve fundamental rights in the course of their decision-making and in the development and implementation of policies .
thirdly - and i cannot do other than support mrs boumediene-thiery from the group of the greens / european free alliance in this - the charter of fundamental rights must establish rights for all those who live in the union , and not , for example , create first and second-class rights for first and second-class citizens respectively .
we already have some concerns in this respect , particularly in view of the fact that practically all the amendments relating to this were rejected following the votes in committee .
we also hope that this parliament will set down a clear political marker in this matter during tomorrow ' s vote in plenary sitting .
madam president , my speech is going to be rather different to that of the previous speakers , since i should like to demonstrate that the charter of the fundamental rights of the citizens of the european union , as outlined in the european parliament report by duff and voggenhuber , would in fact be a charter that restricted fundamental rights even more .
this report in fact proposes including the citizens ' rights which have until now been determined at national level in a standard , detailed and binding european charter , whose application would be monitored and hence interpreted by the european court of justice .
i should point out , before going on , that i am not sure that all the other participants representing the heads of state or government and the national parliaments within the body established by the cologne council to prepare a preliminary draft charter are in fact in agreement with this position of the european parliament .
and how right they are , for this detailed , mandatory charter , which would give standardised definitions of citizens ' rights for the whole of europe , would impose a rigid legal framework enclosing each nation in regulations which were not entirely its own .
it would end in a situation where a nation could no longer amend the rights of its own citizens without obtaining the agreement of fourteen other nations , a suffocating formula , ill-suited to the nature and the interests of europe , as i explained in the minority opinion appended to the report .
the union for a europe of nations group therefore considers that the charter , if it must exist , should be extremely brief and should present only the essential values , the fundamental principles of the countries of europe , in the form of a political declaration .
every country must continue to be able to choose its regulations freely in accordance with its own culture and development .
i like to remember that , right here , in france , a couple of centuries ago , the first moves were made to define these rights , and only in north america , during the same period , were these rights actually given expression , apart from in the works of philosophers and academics , in legal documents such as the state constitutions .
this charter is important because , although we do have other conventions and treaties , human rights are always under threat , even within the union .
in particular , certain rules of some of the penal codes should be altered , such as article 141 of the italian penal code , which goes so far as to punish acts of secession with life imprisonment .
fundamental rights must be secured where they can be protected as effectively as possible and where they can be embedded in the social fabric , that is to say within the member states .
a legally binding charter will inevitably affect fundamental rights provisions in member states and will undermine the role and the authority of the echr and the court in strasbourg .
mr president , dismayed as i am by the fact that 14 member states have prejudged austria , i regard the proposed charter of fundamental rights as an opportunity to bring the european union closer to the people .
at the same time , however , the impression has been created in the public arena that the european union does not even respect the fundamental right - as it were - of an individual state to form a government with sovereign power .
likewise , the impression has been created that 14 member states have failed to play by the rules they themselves adopted , and have violated their obligations towards solidarity .
mr president , for years now , the european parliament and our group have been asking for a proper description of fundamental rights of the european citizens in the european treaties .
the request was made at the time of the treaty of maastricht and the treaty of amsterdam .
the charter should at least deal with the citizens ' fundamental rights , the political rights , the social rights and , in my opinion , the rights of minorities too , and it should form a supplement to what we already have .
i will probably submit a text on this matter myself .
the european parliament declared itself fully in favour of this move , convinced that this is the way to guarantee the legal status of the charter and to consolidate the protection of rights at a legal level as well , awarding jurisdiction to the court of justice of the european union .
as we are all aware , from the european parliament ' s perspective , this should represent a step towards the constitutionalisation of the union .
the incorporation of the charter of rights into the treaties is the logical result of the decision taken in cologne , which was taken for the benefit of the citizens , that they might have a part in the construction of europe and fully identify with the plans for the union , its principles , its values and its institutions .
in our eagerness to make things right , we are , however , in danger of doing a lot of damage .
the eu must not start competing with the existing authorities for resolving disputes , such as the court of human rights here in strasbourg .
in my view , the eu ' s court of justice should therefore be kept away from the project concerning fundamental rights .
in the brief time that i have , i would like to concentrate on one specific point which the previous speaker has mentioned , as indeed have other speakers .
that is the potential conflict which could arise between this charter and the european convention on human rights .
let us not forget that each member state has ratified the european convention on human rights , has incorporated it into its own national law and is bound by the decisions of the european court of human rights in strasbourg .
also , in case members do not know it , under a strict legal interpretation any eu legislation supersedes any constitutional provision or any other national legislative provision in any one of the member states .
therefore , if this charter were to be incorporated into the treaties , it would supersede the european convention on human rights , it would supersede any national constitutional provisions and would also supersede any national legislative provisions .
therefore , whilst it is important that each of us must stand up for the inalienable freedoms and rights enjoyed by each individual citizen , as well as by groups of citizens , i think there is a better way to deal with this problem than through a charter , namely through the incorporation of the convention into european union law and its enforcement at national member state level .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , with this proposed charter and some other reports which this house will be debating tomorrow morning , we have now entered a new period of european construction , the ' dadaist ' period of european construction , which scorns reality and perpetually seeks moral justification for itself .
it is a pretext , when the very title of the proposed charter speaks of the fundamental rights ' of ' the european union instead of fundamental rights ' within ' the european union .
mr president , the question we have heard several times in the course of this debate is this : what exactly is the point of this charter of human rights , when there is already one , and even several universal conventions on human rights and a european convention on human rights , and human rights are included in the constitutions of all the member states , those of the candidate countries and , generally , in the constitutions of all countries , even those who do not respect human rights ?
of course , the charter of human rights is the first step in this direction , but , as with everything which characterises the construction of europe , the approach is indirect , concealed , tortuous and , i might even say , ' jesuitical ' .
i feel that this is a problem which as yet we can only see the premises of , but , in my view , it is absolutely essential to see the premises in order to be able subsequently to follow the thread .
some have argued that the charter should simply gather together in a readable form all the rights that currently exist within the european union .
many citizens do not know the rights that exist today .
i believe we have a team of 60 politicians working on the convention because it is our duty to identify gaps in existing rights , to identify weaknesses in existing structures and to show the political will to correct those weaknesses .
so the charter must fill in any gaps in existing rights , and it must be binding on the institutions of the european union .
there needs to be a list of rights which will be directly upheld by the courts , but there also needs to be another list of general rights which the community institutions and others will have to take into account when drafting policies ; some in the court , some simply as background forming a valuable basis when we are taking other decisions .
what is clear , and what unites most people in this chamber who want such a charter , is that it must be in the treaties .
if it is to impact on the citizen it must appear in the treaties of the european union .
citizens can mainly stand as candidates in elections and vote in another eu country .
during this past century , europe has experienced two terrible wars , immeasurable tragedies , but , at the same time , it has witnessed unrestrainable civil , cultural and social progress .
it is a bitter surprise to find that there is no specific , explicit reference in this document to those social rights which are , in actual fact , the most important part of the immense democratic process which became established in europe during the course of the century .
first and foremost , a document such as this cannot fail to include a specific , indisputable reference to the right to work .
yes , social rights are mentioned , but they should be clearly and practically defined : the right to work , the right to health , the right to education , the right to housing , to a pension , the right , that is , to life , to a life where all have equal opportunities , according to those principles of liberte [ freedom ] and egalite [ equality ] which have played such a major part in our extensive history .
we oppose the charter , however , because in the idea behind it , we detect a kind of trojan horse for federalism , a political trap which would entail other serious political and legal consequences for the member states and peoples of europe .
there is a very simple reason why the european union does not need a charter of fundamental rights : it does not have a fundamental rights problem .
the europe to which we belong is even , to a certain extent , the cradle of the culture of fundamental rights .
the appropriate setting in which to enshrine fundamental rights is the constitutional law of each nation state .
the appropriate setting for achieving international legal harmonisation and solid advances in the international protection of human rights is the agreements and conventions ratified by the member states in as wide a geographical area as possible .
however , the report by duff and voggenhuber has given us cause for this today .
the second danger is that it may give the european union an excuse to continue not being legally bound by basic decisions or regulations of international bodies , such as the european convention on human rights or the various decisions of the international labour organisation .
fundamental rights of the modern age have their origins in the magna carta libertatum of 1215 , the petition of rights of 1628 , the habeas corpus act of 1679 , the bill of rights of 1689 and , lastly , the declaration of the rights of man and citizen during the french revolution .
applied to europe this means that a european charter of fundamental rights must protect the citizens of the european union against the interference and intervention of european institutions in the fundamental rights of the citizens .
furthermore , our group hopes that a written european catalogue of fundamental rights will put european integration on a firmer legal-ethical footing and help to create greater transparency and clarity for the citizens .
at the same time , however , this means that we must confine ourselves to the traditional fundamental rights and avoid extending the scope to social and economic fundamental rights , which are not legally enforceable at european level .
mr president , the rapporteurs duff and voggenhuber , as well as the committee on constitutional affairs , have done some sterling work .
it concerns the question , raised repeatedly today , as to whether the european union should sign up to the european convention on human rights .
the european convention on human rights does not fulfil this task .
we call upon the convention on fundamental rights , the 62 politicians that david martin mentioned , to take up this task .
for example , i was speaking recently with some very senior judges in germany who were clear , on the basis of the history and traditions of their country , that these matters should be contained in a justiciable charter .
but my own country has a very different tradition in this respect , as our own prime minister has made clear , and it is not part of the united kingdom ' s tradition to safeguard the citizen in this way .
family rights and protection that have been provided for in legislation elsewhere in this respect should be reproduced in the eu charter of fundamental rights .
it is clear that there is a great fear among many people , particularly the people who elected me , that this charter will override national constitutions , in particular as regards the support and protection of fundamental institutions such as family , marriage and the protection of life , born and unborn .
it is good to remember that europe has shared a common position throughout its history regarding the importance of supporting and protecting family and marriage .
this is enshrined in all our constitutions as well as the constitutions of those accession countries joining the european union in enlargement .
i welcome the reference in our charter to family life .
part 1 of article 9 states : " everyone shall have the right to found a family . "
it says it is inspired by article 12 of the european convention on human rights which states " men and women of marriageable age have the right to marry and found a family according to national laws . "
society recognises marriage not on moral grounds but because it recognises on a rational basis the stability it affords society socially and economically as well as securing future generations .
in the interests of best practice - and whilst it is increasingly difficult to define family and we need great sensitivity and compassion in this area - we should not throw away the traditional family unit as the fundamental unit we strive towards , indeed we should uphold it .
point 3 of article 9 states , " the union shall ensure the protection of children . "
i support this , but i would strongly suggest that we incorporate into the wording of point 3 that first and foremost , the union will support the family as the primary and natural educator and protector of the child as is their duty .
as it states in the convention , " the family as the fundamental group of society and natural environment for the growth and wellbeing of its members , particularly children , should be afforded the necessary protection and assistance to fully assume its responsibility within the community . "
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the current presidency of the european union believes that the plan to establish a charter of fundamental rights is an extremely important step in creating a community of values which will act as a focus for taking the process of political union further .
many people are wondering how far we can go in this process of establishing a standard set of values and principles in this way , which would guarantee every citizen within the union a set of rights that would strengthen their sense of belonging to an area with a shared civilisation .
the enlargement of the european union to cover new countries , which is an ethical imperative and an essential strategy for stability and peace in our continent , will unite us with states which have very diverse political cultures and which , in many cases , have young and untried institutions and structures .
do not think , however , that this idea of a charter or a body of principles is merely a type of safeguard mechanism in the face of new member states , that is to say a kind of defence against other countries .
this is a real problem and one of which we should all be aware .
we cannot run the risk that when this charter comes into force a new area of legal uncertainty will be created .
this also brings us to the issue , which has surfaced once again following amsterdam , of the union possibly signing up to the european convention on human rights .
we will have to accept the consequences whichever answer we opt for , and all the more so given that many of us genuinely feel that the institutions and the institutions alone are the real object of this new charter .
the charter of fundamental rights is , in this context , and this is how we shall view it until the end of our presidency , a vital element in producing a more balanced result at this conference , which will in fact also cover other issues , notably the issue of defence and security .
i am convinced that the union will accordingly accept its responsibilities towards the citizens of europe , and will take a political initiative with a view to addressing the future political and moral legitimacy of the european union itself .
the goal just outlined both by mr duff and mr voggenhuber and by the representative of the council presidency will require us to make every effort to ensure that work in the convention drafting the charter of fundamental rights is concluded in time to be taken into consideration , both by the intergovernmental conference and by the summit of heads of state and government at the end of this year .
once again , the commission would like to make four key points quite clear to parliament .
the first is that in broad terms , the commission agrees with and shares the european parliament ' s objectives with regard to the legal force of the charter , as regards calling for it to be incorporated into the treaties and as regards the full range of laws to be incorporated into the charter of fundamental rights .
the truth is that the commission , as stated in paragraph 14 of the resolution tabled by the european parliament , takes the view that the legal force of the charter should be determined by the nice european council .
however , the commission believes that the process of drafting the charter must yield a clear and concise text perfectly accessible to the european public , but which is also drafted in rigorous legal terms that can be accepted as legally binding .
although the court of justice of the european communities ruled in 1996 that the community could not sign the european convention on human rights , i must emphasise that it made such a ruling because there was no legal basis in the treaties for the community to do so .
there is no inherent contradiction between the union having a charter of fundamental rights and , at the same time , signing the european convention on human rights .
furthermore , i recommend that you carefully read the contribution of the observer representing the european court of human rights in the convention responsible for drafting the union ' s charter of fundamental rights .
in the statement by the court of human rights itself , the court ' s representative expresses his support for the idea that the union should have a charter of fundamental rights and , secondly , that the union should sign the european convention on human rights .
with regard to the issue of a conflict between the rulings of the court in strasbourg and rulings in luxembourg , it is worth noting that today , under community law , the court of justice of the european communities always refers to the european convention on human rights , to actual decisions by the european court of human rights , as the source of inspiration for decisions by the court of justice of the european communities on fundamental rights issues .
this means that we are not talking about a revolution , but merely about enshrining in law what is today already practised in the court of justice of the european communities in its relations with the european convention on human rights itself and the strasbourg court .
lastly , i would like to say that in our opinion , the european charter of fundamental rights is not intended to replace either national constitutions or the european convention on human rights .
i am sure that under this action plan , with closer collaboration between the commission and the european parliament , we will have a legal instrument that will banish the spectre created by the fear of contradictions and the spectre of the european superstate , but which will above all ensure that there is a legal system , based on fundamental rights , for the benefit of those on whose behalf we are all here - the citizens of our union .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
additional commission contribution to the igc the next item is the commission communication " additional commission contribution to the igc on institutional reform : qualified majority for taxation and social security aspects of the internal market . "
moreover , mr president , if i wish to do my job properly , i shall have to return to the committee at 5.45 p.m. , as scheduled , in order to present another matter which i am responsible for , to do with the community support framework for portugal , while at the same time i must also answer another question in the following debate .
i would like to offer a word of thanks to two of my fellow commissioners , frits bolkestein and anna diamantopoulou , for the support they have given me in drawing up this text .
i did mention before this house our intention to outline and clarify some aspects of this opinion at a later date .
we had identified five categories of exceptions to the general rule which we approved , according to which , within the union , decisions would henceforth be taken by qualified majority vote .
we had also excluded decisions incompatible with the objectives of the internal market or which may give rise to distortions of competition .
this is the point we have discussed today in order to complete our opinion .
ladies and gentlemen , i should first like to remind you that the proposals which you are to receive in a few moments , or in a few hours , do not include any transfer of jurisdiction , nor do they constitute an action programme in essence .
these proposals concern the methods for decision making in matters of taxation and social security .
ever since the treaty of rome , the treaties have provided for community action in both these areas .
in this matter , we are confronted with an important part of community legislation which has been developed since the 1970s .
the fact that the council may henceforth update this legislation by qualified majority , in order to take account of the development of , for example , e-commerce , can certainly not be considered a transfer of jurisdiction .
this is the first point that i wished to make clear .
the second point i would like to make is that the commission does not wish to impose the levelling of national tax systems or social security systems .
the matter we wish to deal with is how to maintain what already exists and share it with all the new member states .
let us not forget that in the exercise we are currently involved in , in these negotiations , it is a matter of knowing how the european union will operate with 18 , 20 , 25 , 27 or even 28 member states , in order to ensure that each of these states , the ones who are already members and the ones about to join us , may get the most out of the single market , a market whose treaties have made a driving force of the economic and social development of europe .
finally , the commission wishes to make it clear that this additional presentation does not encompass its entire programme for years to come in all areas .
the commission opinion issued on 26 january considered that , because they reflect the fundamental orientations of the national legislator in matters of economic and social policy and solidarity , taxation and social security are largely decisive in the national political choices of citizens .
the commission therefore considers it justifiable to retain unanimity in these areas as a basic principle .
but this first principle gives rise to a second , which is as follows : qualified majority to enable measures to be adopted which are more directly linked to the proper operation of the internal market .
we know , and you know , that some national legislation in the field of taxation and social security may , by virtue of its content or nature , have repercussions for the operation of the internal market .
the commission considers that the community must be able to adopt , by qualified majority , those measures which are most directly linked to the proper operation of the internal market .
that is the second principle .
finally , my third principle , we must in future select the best instrument to respect subsidiarity .
but this selection of the best instrument must be limited to that which is strictly necessary .
this is in any case , ladies and gentlemen , what has been going on for almost forty years in the field of social security .
still , before answering your questions , i would like briefly to mention the content of the proposals as you will read them .
regarding direct taxation , we propose the qualified majority in order to coordinate the campaign against fraud and tax evasion and in order to ensure proper handling of situations involving the legislations of several member states .
regarding indirect taxation , in order to combat fraud , and modernise and simplify the acquis in the light of economic developments , in order to take account of the objectives of the treaty in environmental matters , we propose to act by qualified majority decisions .
we further propose to retain unanimity for decisions on tax rates and the points of taxation .
my fourth point , this time , regarding the coordination of legislation in matters of social security , we propose qualified majority voting in order to update and adapt the conditions intended to avoid penalising people , not just workers .
finally , with regard to the minimum requirements for social security , there is one possibility that we propose to extend to social security , which already exists for other areas of social policy , which involves adopting minimum requirements by qualified majority vote .
mr president , let me just say one final word to explain the state of mind i have continued to work in , as we had done under president prodi in adopting our opinion on 26 january .
let me confirm , finally , that , in addition to this extra presentation , i shall be returning to this house to give further presentations of the commission opinion on the whole of the reform of the european institutions prior to enlargement , as we did on 26 january .
mr president , firstly i would like to welcome the commission 's approach in general to the igc .
it is something that affects member states and their people in a very sensitive way and we have to be careful before the community moves into these fields .
similarly , the issue of harmonisation against coordination : one man 's coordination can be another 's harmonisation and we need clear definitions of what is coordination and what is harmonisation if this is to work .
i wish him well in this area because it is an area in which we need a breakthrough .
just now , ladies and gentlemen , i expressed my concern in this document , and in the discussions we will be having , to avoid ideology , to keep to a precise approach .
so let me repeat that our watchword was to say that qualified majority should be extended to everything that directly affected the operation of the internal market and which might compromise its proper operation in an enlarged europe .
further to this general answer , with thanks for your remarks , i shall be attentive to your criticisms or your proposals when you have had time to peruse this document .
we all know of course that the european parliament takes the clear view that qualified majority voting must apply as the rule and unanimity as the exception .
nonetheless , you have asked me , broadly speaking , whether the great vat modernisation project might be adopted with your proposals by qualified majority ?
finally , i would like to thank professor tsatsos for having mentioned the connection between these proposals and the role of the european parliament .
since i have been given the opportunity , let me confirm that one of the commission proposals is to associate codecision directly to all measures decided by qualified majority as soon as legislative measures are involved .
it is evident that in these matters affecting the internal market and its proper operation - social security or taxation - there are legitimate grounds for the european parliament to express its opinion and adopt a position .
mr president , commissioner barnier , i am extremely pleased that the commission has produced this initiative .
commissioner , you are proceeding with the utmost caution , and that is an approach which i support .
with reference to the argument of subsidiarity , i should simply like to tell you that , in my opinion , it is also important to put forward the argument of citizenship in fiscal matters .
the concept of citizenship is common property , on behalf of which we must move beyond failures such as helsinki .
my second question is : does the instrument that you are proposing in the area of environmental taxation provide for qualified majority voting ?
my third question is : would the instrument you are proposing enable the council to put an end , by qualified majority decision , to the tax havens which exist within the european union ?
i am sure that none of us here will object to fraud and tax evasion being tackled but i must say that it is necessary to maintain the confidence of citizens in the union , and i think that many member state governments will be wishing to look very carefully at any extension of qmv before agreeing to it .
we are very happy to combat fraud and tax evasion and to improve social security legislation , but there are some points where there will be difficulty in convincing all the member states to follow .
mr president , i can imagine that according to some members , the citizens are sensitive to european intervention in tax and social matters .
i can tell you that in my country , many citizens lie awake at night , worrying about the fact that europe leaves social and tax matters well alone on account of this unanimity .
in order to facilitate the task of reforming the institutions , we wish to distinguish the everyday administration of policies ( the normal work of the commission , and we have regular meetings on the subject ) from the reform in the context of the accession of thirteen new member states .
obviously , the monti package is related to the proper operation of the internal market .
we do wish to include them as beneficiaries of social policy ( articles 42 and 137 , which are to be subject to qualified majority voting ) .
once again , regardless of ideological considerations , we have reordered the paragraphs of the new article 137 in order to subject to qualified majority voting everything which affects , from our objective point of view , the proper operation of the internal market : social security and protection of workers , worker protection in the event of cancellation of the work contract , collective representation and defence of the interests of workers , including codetermination , working conditions for third country nationals legally resident on community territory , and financial contributions for the promotion of employment and job creation without prejudice to the terms of the social fund .
we should form a community , and i do not feel that we can subsequently come back to this sensitive issue if we do not resolve it now .
we therefore propose that it should be possible to adopt these minimum requirements by qualified majority vote , and not by unanimity , in all the areas i have mentioned .
we wish to initiate this debate , and to fuel and feed it on the basis of these proposals , as i undertook , in order to facilitate to some extent , the difficult negotiations within the intergovernmental conference .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0201 / 2000 ) .
that position recalled that the fisheries agreement which expired in november 1999 applied to morocco 's fishing zone which is defined as waters over which morocco has sovereignty or jurisdiction .
this definition does not in any way affect the status of western sahara and its coastal waters .
this is a matter which falls under international law , and in particular various un resolutions , and the responsibility of the un secretary-general , whose efforts to find a just , equitable and durable solution have been consistently supported by the european union .
however , according to international law , it should be considered that morocco has control over that territory , although it in no way has sovereignty over it .
i agree absolutely that we should reach a fisheries agreement with morocco which is favourable to the interests of the european union fishing fleet , in particular the spanish fishing industry .
as i am sure the honourable gentleman knows , we strongly support that initiative and if there is any way that we can assist the un secretary-general , then we would certainly want to do so .
as they deal with the same subject , questions nos 40 and 113 will be taken together , at the request of the commission .
question no 40 by ( h-0241 / 00 ) : subject : landmines in a recent statement in the un general assembly the council presidency stated that the eu remains the main contributor to de-mining programmes worldwide .
over the past eight years , european community support for mine action has exceeded eur 180 million .
the funding of mine action from the geographic programmes and their budget lines will continue .
mine clearance and other forms of mine action are often a preliminary step to any sensible development programme .
therefore they should form part of national or regional reconstruction and rehabilitation plans .
the new regulation and the special budget line will support and complement the geographic line by providing the overall policy framework and by functioning as a general reserve and a source for funding for international programmes .
the resources available for eu mine actions should remain at least at the same level in real terms as we have achieved over the last few years , that is about eur 30 million a year .
finally , the european union is recognised as one of the leading contributors to mine action within the international community .
the entry into force of the ottawa convention a year ago provided us with a forceful new instrument and a set of ambitious targets for the years to come .
with the funding and coordinating mechanism under the new regulation and communication , we are well placed to take on that challenge .
i only have one additional question , which is whether the commissioner would submit to us an annual report on the commission ' s actions in this field ? - the new regulation provides for the commission to submit an annual report to the council and to parliament on its actions the previous year by 30 april of the following year .
a breakdown of the mine-action funding per country by the european union from 1992 to 1999 , as well as for projects in the last year , is attached to the communication and we will continue to provide that sort of financial information as well .
thank you very much , commissioner , for this comprehensive answer .
we intend establishing a multi-annual work plan .
i should like to mention one other area which is of concern to them , even though they are not always so directly involved in it , namely the whole area of research , on which we spent eur 17 million out of more than eur 40 million in the last full year in 1998 .
they have a great deal to contribute to this important work .
question no 41 by ( h-0212 / 00 ) : subject : ' dialogue on europe ' initiative the president of the commission intends to launch this initiative on 8 march 2000 .
the commission considers that all the institutional matters liable to have a connection with the work of the intergovernmental conference should in fact come within the scope of the debate which has been initiated .
this dialogue on europe will be developed with all national and regional institutions , but also with opinion formers , the media and organisations in civil society .
as on other occasions , such as the intergovernmental conference of 1996 , this parliament must offer the commission its support in order to monitor information activities .
last wednesday we had a very successful launch of the european information campaign involving commissioners and members of the european parliament .
i would like the commissioner to reassure me that , when the campaign is decentralised , information offices in the member states will involve members of the european parliament in the information campaign as a matter of course .
the commission does intend to involve members of the european parliament at grass roots level in the dialogue on europe initiative .
indeed , no later than this evening there is to be a coordination meeting between the commission administration and that of the european parliament in order to determine the practicalities of the approach to be adopted .
the simple answer , mr president , is ' yes ' .
this report formed the basis for the overall assessment of the fifth environmental action programme .
this is largely due to the fact that rapid growth in a number of economic sectors is ruining our endeavours to reduce the impact on the environment .
the commission awaits the european parliament ' s opinion on its overall assessment and will put forward its proposals for the sixth environmental action programme - to be drawn up on the basis of the positions adopted - by the end of this year .
of course , the european parliament appreciates the commission ' s efforts to promote community policy on environmental protection and , especially , its efforts to incorporate the environmental dimension into all policies , i.e .
second part mr trakatellis , the agreement between the commission and the government of bulgaria that was signed on 29 november 1999 is in line with the policy that the commission tends to pursue .
the agreement concluded between the bulgarian government and the commission provides for units 1 and 2 of the nuclear power station at kozloduy to be conclusively shut down before 2003 .
in addition , provision is made for the government of bulgaria to reach agreement with the commission in the year 2002 on deadlines for shutting down units 3 and 4 of the same power station .
all four units will be shut down earlier than the dates that the bulgarian government originally had in mind , which were 2004 and 2005 for kozloduy 1 and 2 , and between 2008 and 2010 for units 3 and 4 .
the commission is working on the assumption that the final shut down of the two reactors 3 and 4 will take place in 2006 at the latest .
the commission is offering to provide bulgaria with several years of extensive aid , so as to help the country overcome any problems arising from the shutdown .
the various components of the aforementioned agreement form an integrated whole .
in order to ensure full implementation of the agreement , we will not confirm our undertaking to provide the second tranche of the grants until we have reached conclusive agreement on shutdown dates for units 3 and 4 .
on 4 february 2000 , the joint working group on kozloduy comprising representatives from the commission and from bulgaria , met in sofia .
this joint working group agreed to draft a work schedule for the shutdown of units 1 and 2 , by may or june 2000 , and to put forward a political framework and potential projects in the energy sector that are to be financed by the aid package .
the commission will continue to work together with the bulgarian government to implement the agreement of last november .
mr trakatellis , opinion is extremely divided as to how unsafe the reactors 3 and 4 actually are .
as a matter of fact , i believe we achieved a particularly positive outcome in bulgaria , in view of the extremely difficult situation there .
as far as the shutdown dates for blocks 3and 4 are concerned , it says in the text that this will be decided on in 2002 .
the fact that the bulgarian government signed this text without questioning this , has a certain political significance .
the european community initiative intended to offer free access to the markets of industrialised countries , and the most advanced developing countries , to essentially all products of the least developed countries , was launched as part of the process which led to the seattle conference .
the initiative was drawn up immediately after the singapore conference , when the council invited the commission to make proposals in favour of the least developed countries , both for immediate action and additional medium-term action .
in 1999 , as part of the post-lome negotiations , the council , among other things , specified what it intended to do regarding market access for lldcs and decided that the community should , in the year 2000 , commence a process which , by the end of the multilateral trade negotiations and by the year 2005 at the latest , will enable free access for essentially all lldc products , based on the trade system existing under the lome convention .
the difference between all and essentially all products affects , as we well know , a number of specific agricultural products .
at the same time , the community , in its ' least developed countries ' initiative within the framework of the wto , seeks to associate other commercial partners to this market opening policy of ours , which would consist of exempting essentially all the products of lldcs from duties and quotas .
at the moment i am making great efforts to move forward this initiative which we have included in the rescue package which we are working on in geneva .
as the questioner indicates , we should ask whether the restriction associated with the expression ' essentially all products ' may be retained for very much longer as soon as we consider granting these countries total access to our markets .
as far as the community is concerned , following the signature of a new agreement with the acp countries which no longer includes the obligation to offer equal access for all acp countries , we could in fact start thinking about more extensive liberalisation of access to our markets in favour of the least developed countries .
i should not , however , wish to start thinking about this until our present initiative regarding essentially all products has reached a sufficiently advanced and credible stage , following talks with our commercial partners , to be able to move on to the next stage .
i should specify , finally , that access to the market is not the only requirement for countries that , occasionally , do not have a sufficient export capacity for internal reasons , be they distribution , logistical or transportation capacities .
i certainly agree with what he said in the last part of his answer about the need for capacity-building in the least developed countries as well as , perhaps the need for asymmetrical measures , resulting in a certain level of protection for their markets that we do not seek to enjoy in return .
firstly , i think i gave a clear answer to your question when i said that the difference between ' all ' and ' essentially all ' affected only a really very limited number of agricultural products .
regarding the more comprehensive initiative that we have undertaken , i would like to try to convince you that at this stage it is more important , as far as these least developed countries are concerned , that the community should persuade the united states , japan and a number of developed countries to follow our initiative because , in terms of real export capacity , this initiative opens up a market to them which is , roughly , twice or three times larger than our own .
in terms of our priorities , then , mr howitt , and in terms of efficiency , i feel that , given the choice of either eliminating the difference between ' essentially all ' and ' all ' , a problem which i acknowledge must be solved one day , and considerably increasing the size of the market opened for ' essentially all ' products , duty free and quota free , we are on the right track if we work , in the first place , on expanding the market .
thereafter we will be able to start to think , as you wish , on the approach we might adopt with the member states , who sometimes show some reluctance , and a european parliament which will also have to be convinced , when the time comes , that we should go on to the second stage .
the fact remains , however , that at this stage they are no more than proposals and the commission cannot contravene the regulations in force under the treaty establishing the communities , nor can it anticipate the decisions which the member states will take at the intergovernmental conference .
this would mean that parliament should have the opportunity , pursuant to article 300 , to declare its opinion on this agreement .
this is the legal and institutional answer to your question , mr clegg .
i have said this on several occasions , and i feel it is important in terms of relations between the commission and parliament and also in terms of the effectiveness and capacity of the negotiator in this type of case .
i am therefore perfectly willing , as always , to discuss this matter in somewhat greater depth with the relevant parliamentary committee .
let me reiterate my appreciation that the commission and parliament are , for the first time , speaking with one voice on changes to parliament 's role in important trade agreements .
my own view is that the accession of china to the wto , whilst perhaps not quite as eye-catching as a multilateral agreement , is just as important to the future global trade regime , and that a similarly political position might therefore be taken by both parliament and the commission .
as regards china , legally speaking this is the procedure for the accession of a country to the wto , and it is proceeding according to a relatively appropriate and familiar route , one which , for the time being , has not given rise to any disputes .
i suppose , then , that the council will be reluctant to require assent because the council is not in the habit of going much further than is required by the treaties in terms of consultation with parliament .
the important thing , from our mutual point of view , is that , when the time comes , we can , either in committee or in plenary session , have a debate on the conditions which , i hope , will be those we have agreed with the people ' s republic of china , and that this will be completely transparent .
there is another , more technical reason , involving some subtle points .
these are more technical considerations , but they show that all these aspects must be looked into and negotiated in detail .
thank you very much , mr lamy .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the commission is unable to give a concrete answer to mrs izquierdo rojo ' s question , at the current stage of negotiations .
although i have signed this question , as an elected representative , i must say that i am not really its author .
the commissioner has not been explicit .
since state and local administrations are preparing their proposals for the 2000-2006 period , will the commission say what has been the take-up rate of the first two programmes by greece , and how does it rate the success of the two previous leader programmes in the case of greece ?
mr president , the leader i programme in greece , which ran from 1993 to 1996 , was fully implemented and the funding earmarked for this - eur 104 million in total , eur 52 million of which was contributed by the community - was paid out in full .
the success rate of leader i in greece also proved satisfactory , in view of the programme ' s innovative and even-handed approach .
question no 50 by ( h-0190 / 00 ) : subject : balance between fisheries agreements in the north and south the fisheries council of october 1997 analysed the imbalance between fisheries agreements in the north and south , given that shipowners fishing under agreements with countries of the south are increasingly required to co-finance the agreements , which are free of charge for shipowners in the case of the north .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in principle , the commission takes the view that the fishing opportunities granted by a third country under the terms of a fisheries agreement should be utilised in full , and that appropriate mechanisms for transferring under-utilised or non-utilised quotas should be established without jeopardising the principle of relative stability .
that is why , despite all our efforts , the legal mechanisms that come under community law and that make it possible , in principle , for quotas to be transferred in this way , could not be brought into force yet .
when you talk in terms of an imbalance between the agreements with third countries in the northern hemisphere and those in the southern hemisphere , i feel i must make you aware of the following situation : the community and the member states do not pay a licence fee in the case of agreements with third countries in the north because said countries do not ask for one , rather these agreements - with the exception of the agreement with greenland - are reciprocal , in other words , a fish for a fish , and have no effect whatsoever on the community budget .
incidentally , licence fees of this kind were a feature of the bilateral agreements between spain and third countries even before spain joined the community .
under these , our opportunities are expressed directly in terms of the number of fishing vessels or even licences .
i have asked a question because i previously consulted a series of decisions taken by the council of ministers in 1997 on certain guidelines for fisheries agreements and , as far as i can see , they have not yet been complied with in the european union .
in response to the urgent need for stocks of fallen timber to be disposed of , the french government has , amongst other measures , decided to grant 50 french francs per tonne in order to subsidise the transportation of timber intended for export to other eu member states .
however , the notifications make no reference whatsoever to where the wood is destined for , in particular , they do not indicate whether it is to be exported to other member states or to third countries .
obviously such aid is already officially provided for in the countries of the community .
instead , the question concerns countries outside the territory of the community , and may be expressed thus : will we , or will we not , have the possibility of obtaining a derogation in terms of the tonnage , costs or time limits with regard to wood exports , in consideration of the quite exceptional nature of this storm ?
my question clearly concerned exports outside the common market , outside the union .
the only exception in this respect is spain , where , in view of the high number of applications , the take-up rate , if i can put it this way , was 98 % rather than 100 % .
the amended regulation on preventive distillation will be published in the official journal in the near future and will be made retrospective to 24 february .
commissioner , in view of the enormous wine harvest , which yielded 140 million hectolitres , and in view of the wine market regulations that are to enter into force this year , has the commission had any more thoughts - this being the last year when we will have this option - about using obligatory distillation as a means of relieving pressure on the market , or does the commission not take the view that this would be the subject of a further instrument ?
thank you very much , mr fischler .
questions nos 53 to 60 will be replied to in writing .
the commission has also confirmed that if the two countries in question agree , it will support the inclusion of the line in the trans-european rail network when the guidelines for that network are next revised .
in fact , these two extremes of the pyrenees are suffering from saturation since they are the only real land links of any capacity between the iberian peninsula and the rest of the european continent .
we in the commission have expressed our support for the analysis of a new rail crossing in the central part of the pyrenees and we have supported various initiatives in the region through the granting of subsidies for different studies analysing the possibilities .
furthermore , as you know very well , spain and france have set up a monitoring centre for traffic in the pyrenees in order to seek the most suitable solution to the problem facing them .
in any event , the final decision in this respect is the responsibility of the member states .
with regard to the trans-european networks we cannot include anything which is not supported by the member states .
meanwhile , i would like to tell you that the commission will take account of the results of the work of the monitoring centre for traffic in the pyrenees when reviewing the trans-european network and we hope that this review will be ready before august .
the conclusions of this study that we are carrying out will also be taken into account in the revision of the guidelines on the trans-european networks and , furthermore , the interreg ii programme has also financed general studies on the suitability and viability of a future central crossing in the pyrenees , adapted to heavy goods transport .
having said all this , and as i have made very clear in some of my appearances , i believe that we must make an enormous effort to develop goods transport by rail .
we face a level of demand which is clearly not going to be resolved by means of an increase in roads and we need to study a better use of the rail infrastructures , which is an alternative which is not only much more appropriate from an environmental point of view , but furthermore , they are an alternative which allow us to use some existing infrastructures .
in other cases , such as the specific case we are talking about , we must put the infrastructures in order , but of course we are prepared to speak to the member states - and we are doing so - to see if we can persuade the two countries involved to finally accept a project of this type which will allow for a central crossing in the pyrenees .
i would also like to know , since you have mentioned it , when the commission communication on the report on the alps and the pyrenees will be made available ?
this does not only affect spain , as the bordering country , but it also affects road traffic to portugal , given that the pyrenees pose such an obstacle .
the communication on sensitive areas basically tackles the issue of how to combine two elements : the environmental demands of the pyrenees and the alps and the need to facilitate the movement of goods and people .
as i have already said , we intend to present the communication before the end of the year , and we also intend to analyse , not only the particular issues affecting the sensitive areas , but also the possible concrete solutions in the field of more suitable infrastructures , funding , use and safety .
safety aspects are also important , given the use of extensive tunnels .
question no 62 by ( h-0163 / 00 ) : subject : blood / alcohol limits for drivers since 1988 , the commission has been advocating community legislation concerning maximum blood alcohol limits for drivers .
i must point out however that , although the commission intends to express this type of guideline , it will do so by means of a recommendation .
alcohol constitutes the second greatest danger to health in the eu according to a report on health produced by a high-level working party .
the 0.8 mg limit is only in force in ireland , luxembourg , italy and the united kingdom , and only sweden has a limit below 0.5 mg .
we are going to present a communication on road safety , which you in this parliament will receive shortly , and recommend a maximum limit of 0.5 mg .
we consider that legislation should be reserved for cases where it is absolutely necessary to legislate .
we believe that subsidiarity and the recommendation will be sufficient for the alcohol level in the various states to be set at 0.5 mg or less than 0.5 mg .
as we are talking about blood-alcohol levels i wonder if the commissioner , in her recommendation is also going to be looking at the broader issue of drugs ?
the problem is obviously that drugs produce states which clearly limit drivers ' response capacities .
the problem with drugs is that , while in some countries their consumption is subject to criminal prosecution , in others it is not and , therefore , given this differing treatment , we cannot , at least for the moment , make any progress in this field .
lastly , i must add that , in the case of drugs , control is more difficult , since the control systems are not so automatic nor so immediate as they are in the case of alcohol levels .
question no 63 by ( h-0164 / 00 ) : subject : verona-munich railway link the project for a new verona-munich through railway line has been under discussion for years .
the project for a railway line between munich and verona , agreed by the italian , austrian and german governments in 1994 , is included in the trans-european transport network and foresees the construction of a high speed network with combined goods transport .
the proposal of the att 3 project , which is well known to the commission , deviates from the route established in the guidelines of the trans-european network .
mr president , i would expressly like to thank the commissioner for the great sensitivity she has shown so far in her handling of the brenner traffic and brenner base tunnel issues , and i particularly appreciate the fact that mention has repeatedly been made of the need to give special consideration to the environmental implications .
i would point out that the alternative project att3 - and i would like to thank commissioner kinnock and the chairman , mr coleman , for their efforts here - has been examined closely and in great detail by the commission over the past two years , and i have also received a written report on this .
this is all about people living in a sensitive area who must be protected .
the brenner project is one of 14 projects involving trans-european transport connections and , of course , the commission will continue to support this project , although , at the end of the day , it is the member states which must develop it .
thank you very much , commissioner .
since the time allotted to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions nos 64 to 114 will be replied to in writing .
the european eco-label is , it has to be said , a product of the internal market .
in addition to a reduction in costs for certain enterprises , the report also envisages a maximum fee .
in this we are following the example of almost all the national labelling systems , which also have this ceiling .
the purpose of this approach is to make the labelling system equally attractive to large consumer goods manufacturers and service providers .
another important point in this second reading is the regulation of the relationship between the national eco-label and the european equivalent .
in some states national labels are well established and enjoy public recognition .
mr president , commissioner , a speaker in this house yesterday expressed the view that economic globalisation is not an incontrovertible necessity but the evil outworking of a few multinationals .
take the failed wto negotiations in seattle , which have opened our eyes as to the difficulty europe faces in making itself heard by third countries when it comes to its progressive social and environmental standards .
it would have afforded the opportunity to disseminate the european label even more quickly and effectively .
overall , we must succeed in establishing the european label in member states which do not have their own label .
i am totally convinced that , wherever there are well-functioning eco-labelling systems , it will be possible also to introduce the eu flower that much more easily and more quickly .
it is therefore especially important that the idea of prohibiting national eco-labels has been abandoned .
moreover , this system functions excellently where it has been introduced .
with regard to amendments nos 1 , 4 and 8 , which propose active participation on the part of environmental and consumer organisations , the commission shares the view that their support and participation is crucial if eco-labelling is to be balanced and credible .
we are therefore able to accept these amendments .
with regard to amendments nos 2 , 3 and 7 , which relate to certain aspects of cooperation and coordination with national eco-labelling programmes , the commission is convinced that common supporting activities are important , particularly with a view to making the community ' s eco-labelling better known .
this applies , for example , to amendments 7 and 8 .
the services are looking at this and i hope that they will be ready in time for tomorrow .
we cannot allow the debate to continue because we are running out of time .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
incineration of waste the next item is the recommendation for a second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on the incineration of waste ( c5-0274 / 1999 - 1998 / 0289 ( cod ) ) .
mr president , commissioner , first of all , i would like to thank the members for their fruitful cooperation .
as a result of this , we have been able to table various amendments in a joint effort and reach agreement on a number of issues .
once we have reached a point where , in order to counter the adverse effects on the environment , dangerous and organic waste , in particular , is no longer dumped , incineration should then inevitably deliver environmental benefits .
by tightening up emission standards , a balance was struck at first reading between what is viable over a period of about five to seven years and what is necessary from an environmental point of view .
compliance requires adequate control which , in turn , requires proper monitoring .
in addition , we also need to avoid a situation where it becomes clear there are long-term health risks for a reason which may not be immediately obvious , namely that the emission of harmful substances is not measured .
regarding the definition of coincineration plant , it is unfortunate that we were unable to reach agreement on this beforehand .
if waste were used as a replacement raw material , such as in the recycling of glass , the relevant process would fall outside the scope of the directive .
if , on the other hand , only part of the waste were to be used as a replacement raw material , then this process would fall within the directive ' s scope .
as for the recycling of energy , i would like to point out that , in november of last year , the european parliament adopted a resolution on the integration of environmental concerns into energy policy , in which it was requested that special attention be given to the application and development of the best methods for energy recycling .
consequently , the committee on the environment , public health and consumer protection has made a recommendation that energy recycling by means of combined electricity / heat production should also apply to the incineration of waste .
it is wrong , however , that the standards for ammonia should not apply to all installations .
a consistent approach taken by the european parliament will benefit our credibility amongst the citizens , especially those citizens living in the vicinity of plants which incinerate or co-incinerate waste .
mr president , commissioner , we feel that this directive is far from satisfactory because it involves a combination of two texts , one on the incineration of dangerous waste and the other on the incineration of non-dangerous waste .
the practices of each member state must be taken into consideration , while maintaining the existing industrial balance and investigating how the environment can be better protected .
what the industry needs is legal certainty and reasonable time periods .
commissioner , waste management in europe must undergo complete reform as a matter of urgency .
we know that waste incineration is a very difficult and highly technical area , but i think that a creditable piece of work has been done in connection with this report .
i shall certainly support the demand that proper waste planning be carried out , with waste being duly sorted , so that we have a situation in which waste incineration is linked to the eu ' s combined waste legislation , with the incineration problem correctly placed in the waste hierarchy .
i also think it is good that we should now be told very precisely which plants are covered by these rules and also which types of waste are thus exempt from them .
i think that defensible levels have been identified in this connection , and a reasonable balance has been struck between incineration plants proper and the combined plants .
it is a balance that i hope will be maintained , including during the vote tomorrow here in the plenary sitting .
i hope therefore that , by means of the vote tomorrow , we can make our contribution to solving the health and environmental problems involved in waste incineration so that the enormous quantities of waste which we produce every single day do not cause more serious health problems or greater damage to the environment than is absolutely necessary .
obviously , the eu must create a sustainable system for protecting air , land and water .
with the predicted increase in incineration , it is vital that overall eu legislation on waste disposal and on air quality is consistent and comprehensive .
building new incinerators is a costly and long-term venture which in turn has to have a long-term return for the investors , so it would be in their interests for waste to continue to be burned .
this parliament must protect the health and quality of life of the people that we represent .
there is no safe threshold for dioxin emissions and more research is being done on the effects of micro-particles on human health and the environment .
it is a fact that left and right do not often see eye to eye on many issues - rightly and understandably so - both within and outside this parliament , as they represent opposing interests and visions of groups in our society .
regrettably , our consumer society is contributing to an increasing volume of domestic waste and there is also growing concern in relation to industrial waste .
thankfully there is now an awareness among citizens of the importance of protecting the natural environment , and in my view the social and economic climate is conducive to achieving this objective .
in previous debates i referred to the need to reduce waste : here the manufacturers of food and consumer goods have an important role to play , particularly in relation to packaging in its various forms and the importance of using products compatible with recycling , which is of course my preferred option .
while incineration is getting a lot of adverse publicity , and recent planning decisions in ireland have certainly raised the crucial question of the location of incinerators , it is difficult to envisage a complete programme of waste disposal without incineration , particularly in relation to toxic waste , and in this regard consideration must be given to finding locations where the facility will not impact badly on the natural environment .
finally , mr president , it is obvious we need further informed debates in helping to allay the citizens ' concern on the health aspect of incineration , a matter which has been addressed through extensive research carried out in various member states and through the experience gained in the many state-of-the-art facilities now in operation throughout europe .
mr president , commissioner , firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work .
the recommendation for second reading before us is an extremely important legislative resolution , not just for the environment but also for the economy of the european union .
i think this can be seen from some of the amendments which were put forward in committee with regard to coincineration and which now reappear as amendments in plenary .
however , i think that there are still some amendments decided on in committee which we can support in good conscience in order to improve the common position .
for example , i tabled a motion in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy relating to nox emitted during coincineration which , at least for new installations , is somewhat more ambitious than the council ' s proposals .
parliament 's objective in waste management strategy is not to constantly tighten rules on existing incinerating plant , it is to change the role of waste management , to change the type of waste management that we do .
we would be much better concentrating our efforts in the next few years on recycling , re-use and other methods of reducing the waste heap .
mr president , i certainly agree with mr bowe 's final summary .
many of us believe that any government in our country will encourage the construction of waste incinerators as an alternative to encouraging the alternatives .
it is very important that we get our act right , that we look first and foremost at waste management .
we have to look at the root causes of why the waste is there in the first place .
mr president , the amendments by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy underline generally the high levels of environmental protection , and for that reason many of these amendments are acceptable .
in finland and some other countries the sorting of waste in close proximity to where it originates is very advanced .
thus , we do not incinerate mixed waste , as they do in certain countries .
sorted waste can be incinerated effectively together with other fuels in a so-called coincineration process .
for that reason , amendments nos 14 , 17 , 18 and 27 should not be adopted .
mr president , the treatment of waste and the whole policy on waste is becoming an ever more important part of eu environmental policy .
the commission ' s proposal is not a total response to this idea , and is rather based on the notion that everything must and can be burnt .
the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy added the necessary amendments to promote the waste hierarchy to its common position in its second reading , and i hope that these points of view will also be adopted in tomorrow ' s vote .
if more stringent requirements regarding emissions are being illogically imposed on the use of waste as fuel than for other fuels , fuels classified as waste will cease to be used .
it is important that parliament amends the proposal for the directive in this respect in accordance with the committee ' s amendment .
the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy adopted some proposals that , if realised , would make it harder to practise ecologically justified coincineration .
i therefore approve of the european union ' s approach which is to adopt an overall strategy in relation to this major environmental and health issue .
nonetheless , personally speaking , i have always been rather worried to see the incineration of dangerous and non-dangerous waste dealt with in the same legislation , and i expressed my opinion on this point at first reading .
the volume of waste to be incinerated is going to be significantly increased .
the debate has focused on coincineration .
in conclusion , while mentioning that penalties must be applied in cases of non-compliance and perhaps also that support should be provided for the authorities modifying their household waste incinerators to comply with the standards , it is still essential to stress that our top priority is , and must continue to be , avoiding the creation of this type of waste and recycling as much as possible .
mr president , we all know that disposing of waste in an environmentally friendly manner and utilising its energy by means of the latest technology is a requirement of our time and wholly appropriate .
the aim of the directive is to establish emission levels which ensure harmless and environmentally friendly incineration of both dangerous and non-dangerous waste in incineration and coincineration plants without presenting any risk to human health .
in practice , amendment no 11 would also mean that many halogenated substances , for example pvc , which frequently occurs in mixed domestic waste , would be excluded from incineration in waste incineration plants .
millions have already been spent on measures to reduce energy consumption .
the first is the impact of this directive on the existing specialist toxic waste incineration industry .
these incinerators have to adhere to higher standards than the coincineration plants .
the proposed directive on waste incineration goes to the heart of environmental legislation : the protection of public health .
i should like to remind you that there already exists a directive on a waste hierarchy .
articles 12 and 15 of the proposal concern access to information and reporting .
infectious animal waste is not covered by the scope of this directive in its common position form because it is covered by directive 90 / 667 .
the adoption of amendment no 4 to article 2 ( 2 ) might give the commission the chance to revise the text so as to include a specific exclusion for infectious animal waste .
as things stand all other animal waste is covered by article 2 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( v ) of the directive and directive 90 / 667 .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon .
this report sets national targets for ozone levels and proposes action plans for dealing with local problems of exceedance .
to save time i am going to assume that the respiratory and other health problems associated with ozone are understood , and that every member of this house will want to reduce them .
in particular , representatives of the mediterranean countries point out problems resulting from the strong sunlight they enjoy .
but the commission 's 120 mg target is in line with world health organisation proposals , and who am i to suggest that they should be challenged ?
the number of days of exceedance could easily be adjusted , but that is something to negotiate only when necessary .
it is a good target and , if it is at all possible , then it should be retained .
there is absolutely no doubt that in tightening up or adopting the ozone directive we must find a reasonable compromise between the justifiable demand for improved air quality and the possibility for european economy and society to reasonably adapt in particularly polluted regions .
mr president , commissioner , i agree that the most important difficulty with this directive is the diversity of criteria with regard to the establishment of target levels and time-scales for the reduction of the ozone concentrations in the atmosphere : the famous items 2 and 3 of annex 1 .
we in the group of the european people ' s party consider it necessary to support the main lines set in the commission ' s proposal , especially with regard to target levels , which coincide with the guidelines of the world health organisation on air quality and which establish the permissible concentrations of ozone at 120 g / m3 .
nevertheless , it seems to us to be inadvisable to accept the amendments which make 2010 the time limit , the only one in the short term , and set 2020 as the time limit for long term objectives .
our group therefore vigorously defends amendments nos 26 and 28 , which establish a progressive and realistic achievement of the proposed objectives , by means of a progressive scale according to the number of days in a year the target levels can be exceeded .
i believe that a vote in favour of the amendments proposed by the european people ' s party is a vote for progress in the control and monitoring of one of the most serious pollutants to date , initiating , in a decisive and homogenous way , in all the member states , actions for its elimination as a threat to the health of persons and ecosystems , without deluding ourselves as to the real possibilities of completely eradicating it in the short term .
i think there are two crucial points here .
the second thing i think is very important is that specific dates should be set , both for when in 2010 we are to achieve the provisional targets and for when in 2020 we are to attain the long-term objectives .
the european commission ' s proposal has made a lot of headway in this direction .
i am convinced that these two reports together provide a sound basis for positive developments in europe in the fields of health and the environment .
the climate in southern europe is often used as a reason for , or explanation of , the high levels of ozone which are often to be found in the summertime .
the directive on national emission ceilings , which is the next point on the agenda , will lead to improvements in ozone levels so that the target values in question might for the most part be attained .
we cannot , however , accept that short-term measures should only be taken at local level .
nor do we believe that the member states should be enjoined to analyse whether short-term measures are an effective tool in each individual case and in each individual place where the threshold value has been exceeded .
amendment no 12 can be approved in principle .
the principle in amendment no 16 is also acceptable .
amendment no 2 advocates coordination between member states and applicant states .
even if the commission agrees that it is important to involve the applicant states , there is no reason for reiterating this in a directive aimed at the member states .
these programmes stated as their aim the protection of people and nature from the adverse effects of air pollution , meaning that critical ceilings in respect of nature and people would not be exceeded .
the commission ' s proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings is an important step in achieving the aims the union set itself : to protect its citizens from the adverse effects of air pollutants .
owing to this , i have recommended in my report a long-term goal , in addition to the interim one , and a final target for 2020 .
the un economic commission for europe has also examined the objectives for reductions in the same sources of emissions as in the proposal for a directive now under discussion , and , as a result of these talks , the so-called gothenburg protocol was signed .
comparing the differences between the gothenburg protocol and the commission ' s proposal with regard to the effects on health , the annual reduction levels proposed by the commission would save the lives of as many as four thousand people a year in europe .
mr president , the industry committee , after much discussion and serious consideration , is overwhelmingly opposed to the commission 's proposed ceilings , and this is across all groups and nationalities .
the un ceilings are quite ambitious enough for us to reach our internationally agreed targets in reasonable time .
the commission can then concentrate on ensuring this occurs , on perfecting the models that are used and perhaps come up with new proposals in two or three years ' time on the basis of much more convincing arguments regarding the relevant costs and benefits .
support the purvis amendments and the united nations gothenburg table of national emission ceilings .
the present draft directive on national emission ceilings tackles the key culprits where atmospheric pollution is concerned .
these goals must be met by 2010 , with an interim assessment of the national programmes in 2006 .
indeed , un agreements are always less ambitious due to the fact that it is difficult for the situation in rich , prosperous and hence often more polluting countries to be lumped together with the situation in the developing world .
add this to the fact that the environmental effects of so2 , nox and the volatile organic substances , in particular , directly affect our own continent , i - and the majority in our group , i think - can go along with the commission proposal regarding these substances .
in addition , the effects of ammonia emissions are partly local and , as such , a lower threshold seems acceptable .
on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party and european democrats , i have tabled an amendment which , where ammonia is concerned , is based on the lower gothenburg standard and defers definitively setting the ceiling until the year 2006 .
the reason for this is that i hope that , by then , the effects of the implementation and the pending european legislation on nitrate will be able to give us better indications .
i would like to conclude by making the following comment : legislation on ceilings is , in actual fact , the counterpart of legislation on large furnaces , for which i also happen to be rapporteur .
i do not know how much more the commissioner can achieve but we should be seeking reductions in air pollution and we should be giving her our support in her efforts to negotiate them .
we should support this report and give her our backing .
in all probability , drafting this directive was like a national auction , and the end result is very modest when we think what the real challenges are .
the group of the greens / european free alliance proposes that even stricter goals should be set for 2010 than the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy has recommended .
mr president , in order to meet the objectives for air emission levels prescribed in the fifth environmental action programme , we need this directive on emission ceilings more than anything .
we all know by now that six months ago , higher emission levels were agreed at gothenburg within a un context .
the first step towards achieving the emission ceilings is undoubtedly a dynamic implementation and enforcement of existing directives , such as the auto-oil programme .
now to the issues : it is obvious that there are differing opinions in this house on whether the proposal of the european commission is too ambitious .
mr president , i certainly welcome this report and i gave it a lot of support in the environment committee .
the vast majority of the amendments i can support .
it seems to me that the commission figures are aspirational .
mr president , commissioner , i have , of course , nothing against the principle of the directive .
it is an important instrument for future environmental policy .
i note that , for example , my country , belgium , has to meet the maximum possible level , rather than the economically viable level , but that , at the same time , areas in its vicinity which are just as polluted as my country can pursue a much laxer policy .
that is because a large country can use its better regions to offset its bad practices .
i would therefore ask you to give me your backing for amendments nos 16 and 17 , in which i request that the belgian government be given the chance to re-evaluate the situation based on the annual reports .
the countryside in the nordic countries is particularly vulnerable to acidification because these countries are largely lacking in means to protect themselves against it .
however , more than 80 per cent of the acid rain over our country comes from air pollution not in our own countries but in other west european countries .
i am convinced that the eu can be better than the un at solving the environmental problems in europe .
indeed , by virtue of an unusually fortunate coincidence , directives on waste incineration , on limit values for national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants , and ozone in ambient air all feature on today ' s agenda .
in its proposal for a directive , the european commission proposes quantified national emission ceilings , which must be met by 2010 for the four pollutants i have just mentioned .
in particular , the committee approved a compulsory review of the directive by 2004 , which will enable there to be a review of the limit values stipulated and measures adopted to ensure that these limit values are respected .
eu environmental policy is becoming more and more the environmental policy of each member state , with obvious advantages for all europe ' s citizens .
mr president , commissioner , the emission ceilings in the commission ' s proposal are very ambitious , more so than those agreed in the un economic commission for europe under the so-called gothenburg protocol , and so they should be .
for my own part , i am ready to endorse the compromise prepared by the ppe-de group in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , according to which we shall comply with the commission ' s proposal except with regard to the area of ammonia emissions , as the proposal will not cause great problems for my own country , finland , or our neighbour , sweden , as has become evident on many occasions in this discussion .
mr president , honourable members of parliament , we have made great strides in tackling acidification and also pollution in recent years .
the gothenburg protocol is a step forward .
the protocol goes only halfway towards the goal for acidification already agreed by parliament and the council .
a substantial number of people will die early if we do not adopt the measures proposed by the commission .
the protocol is the result of a process in which there is too little pressure on the reluctant to do what they should .
they amount to only 0.08 % of community gdp in the year 2010 .
the commission can accept fully amendments nos 3 , 8 , 9 , 13 , 19 and 21 .
the commission can accept in part the principle underlying amendments nos 1 and 2 .
we will also include a reference in article 9 of the directive in order to make the new recital operational .
the aim of the commission 's proposal is to leave as much flexibility as possible to member states , but we cannot rule out further community action if this would help member states to meet emission ceilings more cost-effectively .
the commission can also accept in part amendment no 11 which would make further changes to article 9 .
the commission will not know in 2011 whether or not ceilings were met in 2010 because of the time that must be allowed for member states to compile inventories .
we accept in part the principles underlying amendment no 12 .
the commission accepts the principles of amendment no 23 .
the commission accepts amendments nos 24 , 25 and 26 in principle , and will also take them into account when it redrafts article 9 as part of its amended proposal .
the commission has a great deal of sympathy with the concerns underlying amendments nos 16 and 17 .
we will therefore propose a new recital and changes to article 9 , which will ensure that effects on smaller member states are properly taken into account on review .
the commission can accept that part of amendment no 20 that would insert " an appropriate " into recital 9 .
we do not accept the remainder of amendment no 20 .
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 15 , 28 , 29 and 32 .
they seek to replace emission ceilings that are designed to meet the agreed community target for acidification , and to protect our citizens ' health , with the emission ceilings in the gothenburg protocol .
gothenburg ceilings fall far short of what is needed as has already been said .
the commission considers that , if member states take seriously the kyoto commitments , the emission ceilings that it has proposed will not be difficult to implement .
we cannot therefore accept amendment no 31 .
the commission cannot accept amendments no 4 and 14 : under the principle of subsidiarity it is for member states , not the commission , to determine penalties for breaches of national legislation .
amendments nos 5 , 18 and 30 are also unacceptable .
the commission is committed to pursuing long-term objectives for protection of the environment and human health , but we simply do not have enough information today to predict when long-term objectives might be reached .
the commission must reject amendment no 6 .
the commission will examine whether further such proposals should be made to the imo , and whether international action is also needed on aircraft emissions .
the commission cannot accept amendment no 7 .
non-volatile organic compounds are automatically excluded from the definition of " volatile organic compound " in these proposals since they are not found in the air in ambient conditions and do not contribute to ozone formation .
the proposed definition is identical in the gothenburg protocol .
the commission cannot accept amendment no 10 .
finally , mr president , we do not accept amendment no 22 .
the commission 's proposed wording on the key issue of public information is in line with agreements on the first two air quality daughter directives .
the answer is that the council failed to reach a common position in december and the commission is supporting the portuguese presidency in its effort to make progress in parallel with the progress on this proposal .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
environmental legislation the next item is the joint debate on two oral questions to the commission on structural fund programmes in the member states and national implementation of eu environmental laws ( b5 - 0014 / 2000 and b5 0208 / 2000 ) .
mr president , i would like , on behalf of the committee , to move at least one of the oral questions .
i want to quote from an article in the united kingdom sunday telegraph this last sunday .
the environment committee is very interested in finding ways of incorporating environmental considerations into other policies .
that is something which we find reflected in the views not only of some of the german members here tonight but also in some of my british colleagues .
we need to ask to what extent the european commission is prepared to use the provisions of articles 12 and 41 of the general regulation on the structural funds to delay granting money where there is inadequate information on the impact of the projects which have applied for the money on the environment .
at its worst , we want to avoid the possibility that the aims of the structural funds and the european union 's concern to protect its natural habitats may collide .
future generations will not forgive us if we allow irreplaceable habitats to be destroyed , whose preservation we actually voted for eight years ago when we adopted our report on the habitats directive and then again in 1997 with the changes to the annex of the directive .
that doubt has now fallen over the position of the united kingdom and its entitlement to structural funds because the united kingdom government has not fully implemented or complied with the provisions of the habitats directive .
it is in the power of the united kingdom government , the german government and other national governments to remove that threat by complying with the habitats and birds directive .
in the united kingdom , structural funding for counties such as cornwall , which i represent and which has recently been granted objective 1 status , faces a twin threat from government indolence on this directive and from government incompetence and meanness .
however , to begin let me say the following : the ffh directive is an important directive and creates a new climate in europe for the protection of nature , the environment and birds .
our question to you , commissioner , has another purpose .
the european union list of the relevant nature conservation sites should have been ready in 1998 - it is now the year 2000 .
germany , for example , implemented the legislation in 1998 instead of 1994 - only four years late .
but we do have this unfortunate system in the european union - what you call legal certainty .
mr president , it is a pleasure to face the commissioner for the fifth time today at this unearthly hour .
i congratulate her for her efforts in trying to make sure that the habitats directive and associated directives are properly implemented .
i have heard that some in the commission believe that they have managed to squeeze more out of member states in the past six months than they had in the previous six years .
the main principle is clear : the actions cofinanced under the structural funds and the cohesion fund should contribute to the protection and improvement of the environment in the european union .
this is confirmed in the new regulatory framework for the structural funds and cohesion fund and in the commission 's related guidelines .
we should remember that both the cohesion fund and the structural funds finance important investments into environmental infrastructure such as waste water treatment facilities or waste management systems .
let me make one thing clear first to avoid misunderstandings .
contrary to the suggestion in one of the oral questions , this does not represent a new obligation on the member states .
the structural funds regulation has been approved by the member states and the council .
with regard to protection of sites under the habitats and birds directives , it is important that we do not give money to measures which adversely affect sites deserving protection - paying out money with one hand and maybe fining a member state with the other hand .
in following up the letter sent to member states by commissioners wulf-mathies and bjerregaard on june 23 1999 , the commission will insist that , in the programming documents for the period 2000-2006 , there must be a firm and irrevocable commitment guaranteeing that the programmes are consistent with the protection of sites under natura 2000 .
the commission will then use all the means at its disposal to ensure that commitments entered into the programming documents are fully respected .
the commission 's representative in the monitoring committee for each programme will also seek to ensure that member states ' obligations with regard to natura 2000 are fully respected .
in addition , should a member state not honour its commitment to provide the lists under the habitats and birds directives within the timeframe set in the programming documents , the commission will take immediate action .
without the lists neither the member states nor the commission can ensure that we protect important nature sites when carrying out structural fund operations , for the simple reason that we do not know where these sites are .
the directive is intended to establish a frame of reference which , in accordance with the subsidiarity principle , leaves the detailed implementation to the member states .
while the commission has no plans to revise the directive , its services are ready to provide guidance to the member states on its implementation and we are finally starting to move on this .
the only sites which the commission takes into account under the habitats directive are those put forward by the authorities in the member states .
as a result , i can see the member states laughing their socks off at this new position because , in the final analysis , once again they have gained a little more time and it is nature conservation which is going to suffer .
mr president , my first report as an mep was on precisely the same topic as that which we are discussing here today : the environment and the structural funds .
therefore , parliament should take this line and call on the commission , in its vote , to implement the structural fund programmes in a way which takes account of community environmental legislation , particularly with regard to directives on the preservation of natural habitats and wild birds .
it is important to remember that very important measures and projects are financed under the structural funds in the most problematic countries and regions of the union , countries and regions which desperately need help in their endeavours to develop and converge with the more developed member states .
we should also bear in mind , mr president , that measures promoting the environment are often financed by the structural funds .
in paris a timetable was set to allow for a revised list to be presented in july with another moderation in october 2000 .
this process is ongoing and i have no reason to believe that any plans submitted for regional funding breached the eu habitats and wild bird directives at this stage .
any refusal by the commission to approve the programme - for example , in merseyside - thus undermining  2 billion worth of investment , or any other objective i area , including cornwall , involving 5 million people in the uk , would actually breach - you said this commissioner - the well-established commission principle of proportionality , namely the obligation to pursue the least restrictive way of ensuring compliance with eu legislation - in this case the habitats and wild bird directive .
in the final analysis any breach of eu legislation must actually go the european court of justice .
commissioner barnier probably said to you today , commissioner wallstrom , that all european programmes should be able to start without undue delay because it can be extremely difficult to make up for lost time later on .
that is your responsibility as a member of the college .
if this affects my own country , then so be it .
former commissioners wrote to the irish government saying : " if you do not have on your list habitat areas to be protected then when you put in your national plan how are we going to assess whether it is in compliance with european directives ? " you must stick to that .
in portugal there is not only no definitive list of protected sites of community importance for inclusion in the natura 2000 network , but even though it is compulsory , there are no plans , rules or mechanisms for the management and protection of sites that have already been selected .
in other words , the portuguese sites that already form part of the natura 2000 network are completely at the mercy of unscrupulous groups of financiers and construction companies , because of the lack of instruments to protect them .
i therefore hope that the commission will bring its legal authority to bear and refuse to approve any funding for the third community support framework until member states send in their lists for the natura 2000 network .
mr president , what is at stake in this debate is whether the eu 's commitment to sustainable development in theory , actually means something in practice , whether when push comes to shove , we are prepared to make some very difficult decisions .
sustainable development is supposed to be about integrating economic development with environmental concerns .
that is what article 6 of our own ec treaty obliges us to do - to integrate those policies .
at the heart of this debate is the issue of economic development coming right up against environmental constraints .
it will be a very good test of what our commitment to sustainable development really means .
that is why the greens are supporting very strongly this resolution from the environment committee .
the problem is in fact much worse ; in addition to the fact that environmental legislation is being contravened in projects and programmes which have received community approval and funding , it is also being contravened during the implementation of projects and programmes in receipt of private or national funding .
it is absurd for eu environmental legislation not to be applied or respected for all projects in the member states , irrespective of whether they require community or some other type of funding .
and the truth is that the directives for the natura 2000 network have been inadequately implemented both in my country and in other member states .
for example , despite the fact that the maliakos gulf and the wetlands of the sperkhios river have been designated as conservation areas under the natura 2000 network , there are proposals to bridge the maliakos gulf , in violation of community law , despite the fact that an alternative solution could be found .
i therefore insist and we call on the commission to ensure that eu environmental legislation is properly implemented and respected in all projects and , if need be , to take recourse to the european court , as another speaker has suggested , and propose huge fines and take a strict line .
mr president , i cannot resist starting by saying it is well-known that my irish colleague across the way lives in the capital city of dublin where these sites will not be troubling her too much .
having said that i support the thrust of what is before us here today and the ability of the commission to use as a carrot-and-stick approach the structural funds to encourage in perhaps the most effective way recalcitrant member states such as ireland , to get their house in order in relation to the natura 2000 sites .
no member state has fully met the requirements of the habitats directive , for example , let alone met them within the legally-binding timetable .
commission procedures are under way against nearly every member state - 12 member states in fact - under the habitats directive at the moment .
it looks as if there are six countries currently at risk for delays or rejections of proposals for the use of structural funds , including my own , the uk , certain german lander , france , sweden and belgium .
constitutional challenge is often quoted in ireland as one of our reasons .
mr president , commissioner , implementation of the flora-fauna-habitats directive is causing quite a stir in many regions and also running into major difficulties .
it would be sensible to re-examine and revise directive 9243 to provide more certainty and clarity .
this is about meeting our obligations under the structural funds regulation and without these lists we cannot ensure that we protect important natural sites during structural funds operations .
if for example in a country which we have discussed today there are 40 projects currently under way that would affect sites to be protected , how can we check that if we have not got the lists ?
we do not want to delay the process of approving the operational programmes under the structural funds but the programmes must include a firm commitment by the member state that they will send us their list by a certain point in time .
we have to understand that this is an opportunity for us to live up to our obligations under the regulations for the structural funds .
the debate is closed .
fifty years ago , 63 countries signed the four conventions and two protocols which still provide a basis for international humanitarian rights today .
mr president , the european union , which advocates and practises a set of values which we are proud to say is at the forefront of the international community , has been emphasising the vital importance of observing the geneva conventions .
in such cases we seek to use the instruments available to us to exert pressure in a timely and effective way .
we are aware that in many cases we have not achieved everything we might wish , but we firmly intend to continue in future with the same determination .
mr president , despite the gravity and the frequency of human rights violations that the geneva conventions and their protocols attempt to prevent , i do believe that the new millennium gives us some cause for hope .
in creating international tribunals like those now dealing with the former yugoslavia and rwanda , we have taken a step forward in making life more difficult for people who encourage acts which infringe the values of the geneva conventions .
the main victims of conflicts - children , women and the population in general - are the first to be threatened and to suffer and we must make their protection one of the priority objectives of our action .
the more we do to prevent violations of international humanitarian law , the more we remind other states - by means of all the opportunities which our foreign relations offer us - of the need to ratify and respect the geneva convention and the more we will be doing to protect these weakest groups .
for example , we can spread the knowledge of this law , particularly throughout society itself , amongst young people , within mass organisations and also in the armed forces and security services .
all the institutions of the european union must decisively support the work of the icrc , because their role is quite simply indispensable .
in this area , the institutions of the european union - including the commission of course - have a generic responsibility , because this is a question of spreading and promoting essential values which , furthermore , are the same as those which underpin our european project .
mr president , 12 august 1949 is a day which the ancient romans would have said should be marked with a red stone .
it signified a great step forward for mankind - and yet in the fifty years since , although our own half-continent has lived in peace , more people have died in armed conflict than died in the whole of world war ii .
too often our own member states have been parties to conflict , either through the production and sales of weapons , through the production and distribution of landmines or through the temptation - in the words of a great victorian statesman in my country - to prefer their wars to be fought at a distance and wherever possible in the name of god .
the commission can also accept amendment no 4 in principle .
the comprehensive approach that the commission intends to adopt on this issue will be brought forward as soon as possible under article 152 where parliament will have a codecision function .
we have accepted this but have proposed further approximations of the legal effect measures that affect this directive , in particular the adoption of a text - which has been approved by the commission overall - for the use and labelling of genetically modified organisms .
as a political force , we serve to guarantee that austria will continue to embrace european values .
we are honoured by the visit of this delegation which is taking place shortly before the entry into force on 1 march 2000 of the association agreement between morocco and the european union .
on this historic occasion we welcome these developments in our relations and the prospects for closer ties between our two parliaments .
it is in this spirit that the delegation for relations with the maghreb countries will be visiting morocco on 20 to 22 march .
in particular , the commission can accept in full amendments nos 6 , 16 , 21 , 28 , 31 , 33 , 34 , 44 , 45 , 46 , 48 , 52 , 53 , 65 , 67 , 68 , 75 , 76 , 78 , 80 , 84 , 85 , 88 and 102 .
the commission can accept in part amendments nos 8 , 18 , 27 , 29 , 42 , 43 , 47 , 54 , 60 , 62 , 93 , 94 , 104 and 105 .
the commission can accept in principle amendments nos 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 10 , 12 , 14 , 17 , 20 , 22 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 30 , 32 , 35 , 36 , 37 , 38 , 50 , 55 , 56 , 57 , 58 , 63 , 69 , 73 , 79 , 86 , 89 , 96 , 99 , 106 and 108 .
but the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1 , 4 , 9 , 11 , 13 , 15 , 19 , 23 , 39 , 40 , 41 , 49 , 51 , 59 , 61 , 64 , 66 , 70 , 71 , 72 , 74 , 77 , 83 , 87 , 90 , 91 , 92 , 95 , 97 , 98 , 81 ( rev. ) , 100 , 101 , 103 and 107 .
that concludes the vote explanations of vote- lienemann report ( a5-0014 / 2000 ) . ( fr ) i welcome the quality and the ambition of this report on life .
i shall briefly remind you that life is a financial instrument used to support environmental policies within the european union and also in third countries , whether they be neighbouring countries around the mediterranean , countries around the baltic sea or applicant countries .
in my opinion , the most important amendments concern the following : life ' s contribution to sustainable development within the community and also to the development of community policy in the field of the environment , particularly regarding the integration of the environment into other policies , as well as to the implementation and updating of legislation relating to the environment ; improving the efficiency , transparency and methodology of procedures for the implementation of life , procedures for information and the dissemination of such information to the public , and procedures for cooperation between recipients ; the objectives of life : this must have as its main objective sustainable urban development , in close association with the pilot projects carried out under the urban initiative , on which i have had the opportunity to speak elsewhere ; the contribution that the projects supported by life make to the sustainability of social and economic activities , and thus job creation .
i consider it crucial that the life instrument should remain open to the participation of candidate countries from central and eastern europe .
the stumbling block in the negotiations with the council lies , of course , in the amount of the total appropriation allocated for the third phase of the life programme ( 2000-2004 ) .
the commission proposal , ratified by the council , is for eur 613 million , whilst the committee on the environment , public health and consumer protection considers that the budget should be eur 850 million .
if the report is adopted in plenary session , then conciliation proceedings will have to be opened , in accordance with the codecision procedure , in order to solve the problem of the amount of appropriations earmarked for the programme .
this type of procedure is common practice since the programmes or legislative measures are too often allocated budgets which do not live up to their ambitions !
boge report ( a5-0023 / 2000 ) . ( fr ) as an mep and , more importantly , as a consumer , i welcome the european commission ' s proposal as a step in the direction of enhanced food safety within the european union .
this proposal has two objectives : first , to amend the 1991 council directive on animal health conditions by removing the provisions on scrapie and , secondly , to introduce a new regulation establishing rules for preventing and combating transmissible spongiform encephalopathies ( tse ) or bse-type diseases affecting sheep and other animal species .
what is interesting abut this new legislation is that a specific legal basis is being created in order to combat scrapie .
even if this proposal for a european parliament and council regulation to prevent and combat certain tse needs to be made more accurate and more effective , especially as regards detecting and fighting scrapie , it is still a notable improvement .
the european parliament has relayed their concerns and they have been heard .
as a result of the debates on the principle of precaution , traceability , responsibility and transparency , the european commission has presented a white paper on food safety .
in addition , there is a clear tendency , in matters of international jurisdiction , more and more often to obtain a pure eu jurisdiction .
graefe zu baringdorf ( a5-0015 / 2000 ) . ( pt ) food safety issues are in the spotlight following the bse and dioxin scandals .
in view of the montreal protocol on genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , i welcome the fact that the rapporteur has included these issues in his report , and i have therefore voted in favour of it .
stenzel report ( a5-0034 / 2000 ) mr president , i would very briefly like to give an explanation of vote , on behalf of the ppe group on the equal report .
it is regrettable that , due to the procedure , the report has received such unfavourable attention in this plenary session .
i am convinced that the rapporteur ' s nationality has played a certain role , which should not be of relevance in this parliament .
basically , we are opposed to programmes and structural funds of this type but , since the vote is only concerned with how - and not to what extent - these resources are to be used , we have simply adopted a position on the issue .
equal stands for " equality " .
the employment and social affairs committee adopted several of the amendments i put forward , concerning for example , the emphasis on access to start-up capital , how to exploit new business opportunities in cities , towns and rural areas and the criticism that under the previous initiatives there was inadequate participation by business .
there is a risk that the so-called aid measures provided for in the report will spread insidiously and with disastrous results : asylum seekers , of course , plus asylum seekers under temporary protection while their applications are being processed and asylum seekers whose applications have been rejected and who are threatened with expulsion should all , according to the report , be able to benefit from this set of measures , whereas their very status - after all , what is an asylum seeker who has been refused refugee status and who is threatened with expulsion if not an illegal immigrant - should , at least for the last category , exclude them from a policy to integrate them into a community which does not acknowledge their presence in its midst as legal or legitimate .
whether we like it or not , a signal of this sort would be a fearful invitation to immigrants who , merely by applying for refugee status , irrespective of whether or not it is granted , would be able to qualify for a range of aid measures designed to help them integrate permanently into the labour market , in a general climate of shortage , in which the legal population , both foreign and indigenous , is cruelly aware of the problem of unemployment .
consequently , despite its general approach , which cannot but be endorsed , i am unable to support a report which contains in it the seed of a new attack on the concepts of citizenship and republican legitimacy which i hold so dear .
lieneman report ( a5-0027 / 2000 ) mr president , some of us in parliament will remember the successful film , " cocoon , " in which some elderly people drank a special kind of water that made them young again .
in my view , it is , therefore , immensely important to exercise extreme vigilance over the water we all drink and , consequently , to study and approve the provisions referred to here .
particularly important issues are the following : the new indexes for water should be compulsory ; provisions should be made for protecting groundwater from pollution ; provisions should be made for purifying contaminated groundwater ; there should be a ban on the discharge of some 400 hazardous substances into water ; substances which are not currently monitored ; a system for determining pollutants in water is urgently needed ; the cost of water supply services should include the environmental cost of producing it ; whereas , in general , the provision of water should be priced at cost , special exceptions should be made for areas affected by permanent and extensive drought , in relation to their social and economic circumstances ( for example , impoverished regions or social groups ) ; a shorter timescale is needed for implementing the directive .
in adopting the water directive on wednesday 15 february , the european parliament confirmed its wish to protect surface water , coastal wasters , inland waters and groundwater .
europe now has a framework which will allow it to prevent any deterioration in the quality of water , promote its sustainable use , protect eco-systems , help fight floods and droughts and eliminate the disposal of dangerous substances .
the objective of this proposal for a directive , which dates back to 1997 , is to put an end to the fragmentation of previous water legislation and protect surface water , coastal waters , inland waters and groundwater .
a technical working party made up of council and parliament representatives met in january 1999 to try and reconcile the positions of the two institutions .
the council hopes to achieve good quality groundwater within 16 years , but the commission wants no further deterioration in the chemical status of groundwater so that good quality groundwater can be achieved in 10 years .
all the standards and all the objectives relating to protected zones should be achieved within 10 years , not 16 .
i likewise expect the european commission to make a clear declaration undertaking to submit a proposal to ensure that water pricing policies reflect the environmental costs and the costs in terms of resources by 2012 .
we have all agreed on the need to put in place proper controls for the protection of our water supplies and also for the users of water .
it is minimalist on a number of points , especially with regard to the dates of entry into force of far too many provisions and the number of , and conditions for , implementing the derogations .
however , the main problem is with the definition of the objective which the european union wishes to pursue with this text .
the objective is of course to create , first and foremost , a clear general framework which will allow the law in this area to be simplified .
from this point of view , the common position is weak .
i should like to see our parliament defend a more ambitious position than the council ' s position , but i should also like that position to be equally credible .
on the contrary , i object to this systematically applied strategy .
it damages parliament .
we all agree that ensuring water quality is a hugely important objective , above all , given the adverse effects of developing a model of accelerated industrial growth on the natural environment .
we have voted against amendments nos 25 and 72 which would require the achievement of minimal anthroprogenic pollution in all groundwater .
the framework directive on water policy will become the cornerstone of community policy in this area .
the legal obligation to achieve a zero input situation , i.e .
such provisions may well cause serious problems in cross-border areas and in candidate countries , thereby complicating enlargement .
it is also true , as it states in the explanatory statement , that harmonisation could be damaging as " it might place greater demands on weaker member states at the same time as competitive considerations might exert pressure on more socially developed countries to cut back on social security .
the starting point for the commission ' s communication is the implementation of emu which , with its demand for stability and growth , creates the basis for the member states ' being able to maintain their social security arrangements .
the report states that modernisation does not mean a reduction in the level of social protection but , rather , better use of available resources .
we also notice that , according to the explanatory statement , modernisation does not mean harmonisation of social security arrangements , either , and that harmonisation might be downright damaging as it might place greater demands on weaker member states at the same time that competitive considerations might exert pressure on others to cut back .
the policies of the european union also have much to answer for in this situation .
social protection should be based on the principle of national and community preferences .
we also believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions are to be taken as close as possible to those they affect .
numerous policies have already gone in this direction , albeit laboriously , and many more still need to do so before europe , in terms of subsidiarity , is seen as one house , not only by its own people , but also by those in the candidate countries .
the second concerns the management of welfare systems and those who operate them .
today , a common strategy for social protection is sadly lacking , and the current systems are , in the main , run according to the actions and unity of purpose of individual member states .
therefore , any modernisation process has to take account of economic , employment and social protection differences between the various countries , whether member states or candidate countries .
inhabitants of countries in the european union ought , nonetheless , to be able to benefit from a minimum network of social protection , irrespective of which country they live in .
we are therefore voting against paragraph 7 of the report .
the report emphasises the social dimension of european cooperation , which is something to be welcomed .
it is nonetheless important to clarify what role the eu is to play , and not to play , with regard to social security .
clarification of this kind is missing from the report , which is unfortunate . . ( el ) on reading the commission ' s statement on social protection , which is animated by so many good intentions , one wonders whether its authors and the working people in europe are living on the same continent and in the same social reality .
when social security has repeatedly , and in the words of many influential people , been characterised as a ' cost ' and an ' obstacle ' to greater competitiveness and when ways are being sought to transfer that cost from companies to working people - always , of course , on the pretext that this will create jobs - it would surprise us if the existing model of market economy without accountability , with its dismal monetary-economic approach to everything and total dependence on monopolistic interests , were to take under its protection the fundamental right of the citizens to social protection and care .
on the basis of these views , we wish to express our categorical opposition to the ' modernisation ' of the social protection system that the commission statement is promoting , and to make it clear that we cannot vote in favour of the report by the committee on employment and social affairs which is under discussion .
i think it is worth reminding you that the inclusion of this item on the agenda clearly reflects the need , which has been expressed by all the political groups , for parliament to hold a debate before the next meeting of the united nations commission on human rights in geneva , so that it may express its opinion on such a sensitive issue , one which is so dear to this house .
following the statement of the presidency-in-office of the council and the commission , i believe we can all agree that the current situation with regard to human rights is far removed from what we would all like to see .
at a european union level we must recognise that the situation is not completely satisfactory , since , for example , although the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is a common instrument in all member states , not all subsequent protocols have been ratified or signed by all of them .
another clear drawback in this area is the fact that the european union itself is not a signatory to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms , with all the additional disadvantages that this situation entails .
i hope that these problems can be tackled and dealt with in the context of the current discussion of the european union charter on fundamental rights .
mr president , in a world such as this , which is increasingly dominated by the phenomenon of globalisation , and not only in the economic field , our responses , in order to be effective , must be concerted and coordinated .
this parliament therefore advocates the principle that we need to participate in the commission on human rights and other international fora which deal with these issues and , mr president-in-office of the council , this parliament would like to be able to participate in this type of meeting as soon as possible .
soon , in may , the european commission intends to present a communication on the development of the role of human rights and democratisation in the union ' s external relations .
i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commission to take good note of this need for coordination , which i have just mentioned , and to seek new formulas which will strengthen the role played by the european union in the field of human rights and , in particular , by this parliament , especially from the point of view of coherence , recognising the good will of those third countries which accept the inclusion of the democratic clause .
lastly , i must recognise the important contributions made by civil society in this area , as well as the often underestimated role of the numerous non-governmental organisations who act on the ground .
i refer to the rome conference and the fact that 14 of the 15 member states of the union have still not ratified the treaty establishing an international criminal court .
we have often employed instruments which , at the formal level , make us feel comfortable , but which , in terms of practical results , are totally ineffectual .
all those aspects should be part of a rationale , a discourse and a contribution which the european union should bring to human rights .
two weeks ago , i received a letter from the chinese embassy in brussels .
nor are freedom of expression , freedom of assembly and freedom of organisation .
in recent weeks , china has done all it can to restrict access to the internet and to prevent citizens from communicating with , and receiving information from , other countries via the internet and e-mail .
it is nothing less than hypocritical to condemn the flagrant violation of human rights that occurs in non-eu countries if we are not prepared to extend a helping hand to those genuine refugees and asylum-seekers , whose position is now becoming more difficult in the eu .
mr president , commissioner , mr president-in-office of the council , in my view , the question which needs to be raised in geneva this year is certainly not the death penalty .
mr president , i would like to try to put a different perspective to this .
they see us killing each other .
the un convention on human rights 50 years ago was an attempt to correct this .
this question does not challenge the efforts made by the member states who wish to bring their viewpoints on foreign policy into line and to display a united front against violations of human rights elsewhere , for example in china .
no , mr president , i am talking about the lack of human rights policy within the european union itself .
a start is now being made on the drafting of such a charter , but we can no longer put off the question of legal status and the strategic significance of this document or pass it on to learned professional jurists .
the following spring to mind in this respect : the systematic collation of documentation and information , professional forms of observation , the development of information campaigns , the use of cash to support democratic forces in the country concerned , a more creative deployment of the resources which are available through multilateral diplomacy , such as organised dialogue and fact finding missions and such like .
but i am somewhat surprised that the resolution which should bring this debate on human rights to a conclusion has been prepared in the foreign sector of this parliament and that the aforementioned committee , of which i form part , has not been involved in this .
mr president , this parliament is fragmented and divided .
leaders violating these principles now face international criticism , sanctions and are even brought to trial , such as ex-dictators like mr pinochet have experienced .
the human rights policy is also too selective .
i would like to warn against a blurring of standards in the assessment of human rights situations in africa , where violations are viewed as a necessary evil .
the international community is sending conflicting messages to this country .
words framed in inclusive and liberating documents become treaties and conventions which are often paraded as a testimony to a country 's respect for and adherence to human rights .
the defamation of minorities in newspapers and other media fuels discrimination .
even within the eu citizens still suffer human rights violations and a breach of our conventions .
in our enlargement process in the eu we have rightly placed the emphasis on human rights and the protection of minorities .
together , we must re-establish the values which unite europe .
i wish to discuss two matters .
we must never forget to defend civil society .
however , it is imperative that the eu speaks and acts as one , and threats of trade sanctions should strengthen rather than weaken our resolve .
the financial resources of the united nations are spread very thinly and because of this many crucial programmes are dependent on voluntary contributions to keep them afloat .
we are also pleased that the situation in timor is slowly moving in the right direction .
numerous mps have been killed or have fled the country and only a few are left in burma .
mr president , mr president-in-office , commissioner , economic clout cannot be the only factor that determines the european union ' s status in the world .
the european parliament has been at the forefront of the battle to promote and defend human rights , and it has succeeded in overcoming the limits imposed by self-interest and " national interests " , which are sometimes reflected in the positions adopted by the member states and even by other european union institutions .
it is vital that when violations are committed , the perpetrators should not be able to act with impunity , whoever or wherever they may be - in indonesia or angola , in cuba , china or burma , whether the perpetrators are civilians or soldiers , humble foot-soldier or general or even a minister .
president wahid needs our support to cope with the difficult situation he is faced with .
i would also like to say that the european parliament ' s participation in the preparatory work is important in establishing coherent european union positions on various different issues , and that the presidency therefore naturally welcomes all the various suggestions and in particular all the contributions made through the resolutions which have been presented .
i would also like to stress , as many members have highlighted , that human rights policy is at the heart of europe ' s identity and that respect for human rights should be seen as a fundamental principle for international cooperation by the european union .
but we have also duly noted the concerns expressed by many other members about other countries , notably indonesia , east timor , the moluccas and burma .
one or two speeches have referred to specific issues which we are well advised to think about very carefully .
mr cashman said , which is right in a sense , that words are no substitute for real action .
there is also the question of our overall policy on human rights and the relationship between human rights and foreign policy .
i want to remind parliament that the commission will be publishing , before the middle of the year , a comprehensive , intellectual case for placing human rights at the heart of the development of the common foreign and security policy .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of the presidency of the council of the european union , i would like to present to you certain information about the re-opening of the intra-cyprus negotiations and recent developments in this area .
i think it will be obvious to everyone that the events in helsinki at the end of last year and the new era in relations between the european union and turkey have created a new backdrop , at community level , which we cannot ignore when it comes to relations between the two cypriot communities .
at the beginning of december 1999 , the first round of negotiations were held in new york , after an interruption of several years in negotiations between the cypriot communities in the north and south of the island .
it is essential for us to send the commission a message of confidence about its role in this area .
as i said at the beginning , the conclusions of the helsinki european council last december have had a visible impact on the way the positions of the various parties to this process have developed .
the nicosia government has expressed its satisfaction with the helsinki conclusions , which open up the way to accession to the european union without solving the partition of the island beforehand .
as far as we , the council presidency , are concerned , we will continue to follow these developments very closely , and we will certainly cooperate with the secretary-general and his personal representative on this matter .
firstly , i would like to say a few words on the financial regulation for cyprus and malta , which the commission put forward in october last year .
we need these instruments so as to be able to meet our financial commitments under the terms of the development strategy for malta and cyprus .
the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on budgets have put forward a series of proposed amendments .
the commission will propose a package of eur 95 million .
the council has also agreed on this figure .
the second important issue in this respect relates to the transfer of the financial means under line 7 of the budget .
in the case of cyprus , the draft regulation also provides for the financing of measures intended to support reconciliation between the two ethnic groups , and in fact this accounts for a third of the total amount .
now just a few brief comments on how the cyprus question has developed since the european council in helsinki .
the european council in helsinki reiterated that resolving the political conflict would facilitate the accession of cyprus to the european union .
the helsinki european council ' s decision on how relations between the european union and turkey are to be framed in future has given the situation considerable impetus .
i would emphasise that several political processes are running in tandem here and they are closely linked .
it also concerns the further development of relations between greece and turkey , and the peace process in cyprus .
the first thing we are able , and want , to do is to step up dialogue and communication between the two communities on cyprus .
for our part , we have made funds available for this purpose in the new financial regulation .
i believe it is very important for us to call upon both sides to at last break free from the shadows of the past and gradually develop a new form of cooperation and , ultimately , a new way of living together .
the talks held under the auspices of the united nations took place in new york in december and in geneva at the beginning of february .
i am sure that no one in this house doubts that it would be extraordinarily helpful in the process , if it were to prove possible to find a solution to the cyprus question , and it is also clear that the european union must play its part here .
on the other hand , we must also make it clear , of course , that there are other options , so as to avoid the possibility of creating something awkward that will ultimately land us in difficulties of the kind that will have us running into obstacles and remove our power to act in the overall enlargement process .
therefore permit me very briefly to raise those points that parliament deems important .
i believe it is important that the european parliament has made a positive contribution for this year nonetheless , because we do not want these countries to be disadvantaged in any way , and that is why we were prepared to make the necessary decisions for budget 2000 , but this can really only apply to this year .
i fully understand that problems of a mathematical nature may arise on account of agenda 2000 and the funding that might be at our disposal .
i would also like to state quite clearly that we could perhaps even discuss the figure of 130 million that was mentioned in my report .
parliament has also tabled an amendment for tomorrow based on a different amount , particularly as these countries are at a relatively advanced stage of development , as i said .
however , these countries must be able to feel secure for the foreseeable future ; they must know what is actually in store for them , and this must also be reflected in the european parliament ' s planning ability , as part of the budgetary authority .
mr president-in-office of the council , i know that you are still full of good intentions regarding cooperation with the european parliament .
that government has proposed a way in which the turkish cypriot side can take part , and i think it would be right for the council and the commission to urge the turkish cypriot side to take part institutionally in the framework of the negotiations conducted by the republic of cyprus .
this is a small political decision which would bring major benefits , especially in helping the two communities effectively to constitute one state , to achieve effective rapprochement - because the two communities were once close - and for the republic of cyprus , genuinely , to be rid of occupying forces .
mr president , we are required under the advisory procedure to debate a proposal for a council regulation on the implementation of operations within the framework of the pre-accession strategy for cyprus and malta .
this proposal is similar to the proposal submitted for other candidate countries and , once it is implemented , will replace the financial protocols which have now expired .
pre-accession instruments are designed to provide technical and financial support for efforts by candidate countries to meet the demands of the community acquis .
as far as cyprus is concerned , part of the technical and financial aid provided for in the instruments will be used to bring the greek and turkish communities closer together and solve the problem of the partition of the island once and for all .
since 4 july 1990 , when cyprus applied to join the eu , the european parliament has passed numerous resolutions calling for a political solution in accordance with international law and the relevant resolutions of the security council of the united nations .
in april 1999 , parliament again reiterated its position that the accession of cyprus should benefit the whole island , and help towards a political solution , but that accession should not be dependent upon such a solution .
in other words , accession should not be held hostage to a political solution .
we must therefore welcome the fact that the helsinki european council put an end to the speculation and stated in its conclusions , and i quote , that " if no settlement has been reached by the completion of accession negotiations , the council ' s decision on accession will be made without the above being a precondition " .
on the contrary , it will allow the interests of all concerned to be highlighted as and when cyprus joins the european union and prepares for a turning point in its history .
the main point is that the money for cyprus ' s and malta ' s pre-accession aid should come from category seven and that there should be a review of the financial perspectives for , if the council does not endorse this view , it is in reality acting in conflict with its own decisions in helsinki in december .
with regard to the amount which is quoted in the brok report ( eur 130 million ) , i also want to say , on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party , that we must negotiate our way towards finding a sum of money .
mr president , the group of the greens / european free alliance support the decision adopted by the european council in helsinki according to which the resolution of the conflict cannot be a prior condition for the accession of cyprus to the european union .
the conflict in cyprus will only be resolved through improved relations between the two communities with a view to establishing a federation in the - we hope - not too distant future .
the european union should be taking a more decisive role that goes further than merely providing financial support , although that is important , by promoting and guaranteeing reconciliation between the two communities through the setting up of fora and confidence-building programmes .
thirdly , we must not , in turn , allow the position taken by the helsinki european council to temper our efforts to resolve the cypriot question before cyprus joins the union .
mr president , there is a general consensus of opinion that financial aid to cyprus and malta is important .
the council and commission have suggested deleting the protocols under category 4 .
this is in line with the budget order issued by parliament in december last .
the rapporteur is now making reference to this and proposes classing cyprus and malta under category 7 .
the committee on budgetary control has even suggested postponing approval of the brok report until the council agrees to increase the financial ceilings for category 7 .
i would therefore advocate that the eur 15 million in category 4 be dropped , in line with the commission ' s proposal .
we all know that special care is needed to ensure that cyprus is brought successfully into the european union , and the decisions taken at helsinki give an added dimension to this debate , with the acceptance of turkey as a candidate country .
i hope that the decisions taken at helsinki lead to progress on the cyprus issue .
i hope this signals a new era of hope for cyprus .
i hope that turkey begins to play a constructive role in the cyprus issue .
i am delighted to hear the words of support from the council and the commission for the un and the work it is doing in encouraging proximity talks between the two communities to encourage reconciliation and the rebuilding of trust between the two communities in cyprus .
i welcome the renewed warmth in relations between the greek government and the turkish government .
we all , throughout the european institutions - in parliament , the council and the commission - should be doing our best to aid cyprus in its quest to reach a peaceful solution which brings together these two communities which have been divided for too many years .
for we all know that it is unacceptable that this island has been divided since 1974 and that approximately 38 % of cyprus has been occupied by turkey for more than 26 years .
but as you yourself made clear , we have just entered the year 2000 and may find that we are facing a new situation , possibly with new opportunities .
at the same time , it was decided that the accession of cyprus to the union would not be made conditional on the resolution of the cyprus question , which , as mr poos said , was actually already the clear position of the union and also parliament , and this was confirmed in various resolutions .
therefore , helsinki has left turkey in no doubt whatsoever as to the fact that it has no right of veto regarding the accession of cyprus , and that the further deepening of its relations with the european union are closely bound up with the resolution of the cyprus question .
i think we can assume that , where cyprus is concerned , the eu accession process is irreversible .
cyprus expects to have to spend around eur 850 million - which corresponds to almost 12 % of their own gnp - on adaptation activities between 1999 and 2002 .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner verheugen , the regulation on accession aid is not exactly an advertisement for coherent work on the part of the commission .
both the commission and the council have been making very optimistic speeches here today as well .
mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , the view of the greek communist party is that the main problem of cyprus is not its accession to the european union but the occupation of 40 % of its territory by turkey , which has continued for 26 years .
the only acceptable solution that guarantees the future , that leaves no room for foreign interventions , like those that led to all the problems of the last fifty years , is a unified and federal cyprus in accordance with the resolutions of the un ' s security council .
for its part , the european union , with its hypocritical professions of interest in freedom and human rights , has never been moved by the drama of the cypriot people , by the problem of greek and turkish cypriot refugees , by the enforced change of the population composition in the north of cyprus , or by the wholesale settlement of colonists by turkey in the occupied areas .
even in this chamber , the council ' s representative referred to the north of cyprus and not to the occupied territories .
the recent helsinki decision to grant turkey accession country status , even though it has made not the slightest concession over the issue of its occupation of cyprus , for example , by reducing its military presence there or giving back ammokhostos , is clearly encouraging turkey ' s intransigence .
it is not by chance that , immediately after helsinki , the turkish prime minister , bulent ecevit , stated that the cyprus issue had been resolved in 1974 .
on their course towards accession , the people of cyprus have already lost a great deal , but stand to lose even more .
mr president , malta and cyprus are very different from the countries of mainland europe .
the maltese in particular have been very good at surviving in hostile geographical and geopolitical environments .
their success has relied in great part on their enterprise , their dynamism and their flexibility .
the situation is more akin to a black hole in space , sucking in masses so powerfully that not even light escapes .
the eu should leave cyprus and malta alone .
mr president , this is one of the few occasions when , from what the speakers have said in this parliament , from all sides of the house , there is clearly the greatest convergence of views on the cyprus issue and , of course , on the pre-accession process for cyprus and malta .
at the same time , however , it means that both the council and the commission have a very strong mandate , so that the strength of opinion expressed by all the european parties , and all the peoples , can empower their political ability to address the problem .
to this end , the brok report is a good instrument and it is really a bit distressing that , because this is a joint debate , it is politically overshadowed by the political position of the council and the commission and we cannot therefore say more about this good report .
now , as regards the brok report , cyprus and malta are the last of the mediterranean islands , and , unless i am mistaken , the last islands anywhere in europe which have not acceded to the european union .
granted , it is an issue concerning two communities , but it is not mainlyan issue concerning two communities .
moreover , it was this situation and this interpretation which led the council to take the decision it took in luxembourg at the end of 1997 , when it decided to take the first steps in the accession process for the republic of cyprus to join the european union .
i hope that honourable members will realise that , regardless of the more or less emotional statements made about issues of this kind , the day-to-day reality of international negotiations normally forces governments to adopt a somewhat more flexible stance - and when i say governments i mean all governments .
regardless of who is to blame - and we are not here to apportion blame , the relevant united nations resolutions in this area are clear enough - i believe that we should take advantage of the opportunities that the new situation is opening up , in more of a rational way and less of an emotional one .
the european council in helsinki had the courage to take certain decisions , and i believe that various aspects of these decisions have already recognised the real value of these opportunities which , as i said at the beginning of my first speech , represent a window of opportunity .
the european union ' s position on this is crystal clear , and i do not think it is worthwhile second-guessing particular phrases in the council ' s conclusions or in any other statement .
we do not play at political correctness in this house : we are concerned with fairness at international level and with concrete statements on this issue consistently defined by the council over a period of time , and which the european commission has also followed carefully , attentively and pragmatically .
so when we talk now about the need to involve the northern cyprus community in exchanges of information , particularly with a view to the eventual accession of the republic of cyprus to the european union , we need to be aware that we are trying to find practical formulas that will enable us to overcome the obstacles standing in the way of a political solution .
we believe that helsinki was very clear in this respect .
the authorities of the republic of cyprus itself have clearly recognised that our relations with them regarding their accession to the european union have been positive .
there is no point in second-guessing or trying to second-guess our intentions .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to thank you all very much indeed for this debate , which all in all i have found to be encouraging and supportive , and it has also shown that there is a great deal of support in this house for the policy of the member states and that of the commission .
malta , cyprus and turkey were not provided for at this stage .
mrs schroedter described this as a lack of coherence .
she ought perhaps to take some time to ask the erstwhile president-in-office of the council , who is not exactly a stranger to you , how this presumed lack of coherence has come about .
nevertheless , i have said that i understand the arguments that people have been putting forward here and the commission will endeavour to take account of these aspirations , but since this is all about agenda 2000 and the financial perspective , we will not be able to do this without amending this financial perspective .
by way of clarification : if we transfer it across from heading 4 to heading 7 then this will have no effect on the overall balance of the budget .
if we do this , then heading 7 would be increased accordingly but heading 4 would be decreased by the same amount .
as for the peace process in cyprus and how it is linked with the accession negotiations , i would reiterate that there has always been a direct connection between the two .
the commission and the council have long endeavoured to encourage the two communities in cyprus to undertake joint projects .
mrs rothe , i would put it this way : i am convinced that there has been a distinct improvement in the framework conditions for reaching agreements of this kind .
after only a few weeks , mrs rothe , it is still too early to deliver a verdict on this , but in any case , i have no grounds for assuming that the new line will fail .
i met the turkish foreign minister in brussels a few weeks ago and naturally i asked if turkey could take a positive and constructive stance in relation to this issue .
the financial regulation is the legal framework we need to tackle the priorities established under the terms of the accession partnerships with malta and cyprus .
if the lamented lack of coherence should happen to have something to do with this point , then i am bound to say that this regulation is a legal framework and nothing more than that .
this legal framework is fleshed out in the priorities set by the accession partnerships that were adopted by the commission and the council last year and are now being implemented in the corresponding programmes and project management .
in any case , the question that this raises is an important one and the council will not fail to support the proposals that the commission has presented in this respect .
thank you very much commissioner verheugen .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0009 / 2000 ) .
the council was fully aware of issues of this kind and of the need to take additional measures in this field .
it emphasised the importance of the council taking new measures within a community framework and in the context of its own work with international organisations .
we are perfectly aware of the difficult and dramatic humanitarian situation in kosovo and of the problem of displaced people in that region - and i mean people who originate from kosovo - and of the particular effect of this on child health and on mortality rates .
i think it is well known that the european union has made a clear contribution to the humanitarian aid effort being made by the international community .
as you know , the european community has contributed a total of eur 378 million for the province of kosovo alone , and this has to be seen in conjunction with the contributions made by member states at national level .
i think that mrs karamanou is aware that , because of the need for division of labour between the international donors , the task of restoring health care in kosovo has been entrusted to the world health organisation .
mrs karamanou , i recognise the fact that all the efforts that have been made in kosovo in this field have not been enough .
i do not want to link this question with your comments about the period " before " and " after " nato ' s intervention , as we will probably touch on that issue at another point during this question time .
i would like to widen the debate and include the situation in mitrovica .
the situation in mitrovica is appalling , and involves very special tensions , and i believe that the measures taken over the last few hours to create safe conditions in that area are to be welcomed .
the council has already , on various occasions , stated its conviction that the severe measures taken by nato were both necessary and justified to deal with extremist and irresponsible actions involving clear violations of the united nations security council resolutions .
in my own country , the various parliamentary groups had differing views on this matter .
in any case , the council ' s position is clear in that it considers that the objective of the air campaign carried out by the north atlantic treaty organisation in the federal republic of yugoslavia was to put an end to the humanitarian disaster in kosovo caused by the belgrade regime .
this objective was fully and formally expressed in the statement adopted by the general affairs council in luxembourg on 8 april .
i must say that these nato measures were not taken lightly and were only carried out as a last resort when it became evident that all avenues for reaching a negotiated solution had been exhausted and that the belgrade authorities were concentrating their forces in order to expel the kosovo albanians from their land .
mr marset campos , you will be aware , first of all , of how difficult it is to select targets during a military operation , particularly an air-based one , and you will also be aware that there is a category of targets that , whilst they are not military targets as such , are infrastructure targets selected with a view to hindering the smooth running of the military machine .
unfortunately , and as everyone recognised during the military action in kosovo , there were civilian sectors , and in particular infrastructural sectors directly affecting the general public , and even inhabited areas , which were directly affected by nato air attacks .
this is generally recognised and this happens in all wars , and the kosovo war was not a clean war , nor a model war , but a war based on the art of the possible .
mr marset campos , regardless of how we may see things with hindsight - and it is easy to see things with the benefit of hindsight , if you take no action yourself - i believe that , if we look at what happened in bosnia and herzegovina , and at the impunity that the situation in bosnia and herzegovina led to , and the continuation of that impunity , then we might perhaps see the nato military action in kosovo in a somewhat less catastrophic light .
question no 4 by ( h-0028 / 00 ) : subject : turkish blockade of armenia given that the european union is actively promoting social , economic and political relations with armenia through the partnership and cooperation agreement , signed on 12 october 1999 , what steps is the council taking to persuade the turkish government to lift the economic blockade of armenia ?
nevertheless , as regards the relationship that interests us - the relationship between the european union and armenia - the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement in july 1999 and the first meeting that we held in october last year show how seriously the european union takes its relations with armenia .
the european union has been endeavouring to facilitate this process and we are of course also aware that turkey must adopt a constructive attitude towards this matter and play a major role in it .
in december 1999 , as we all know , turkey was accepted as a candidate for membership of the european union .
political dialogue with turkey will be stepped up in view of this new situation .
we provide partnership funding and there are cooperation agreements in place , in order to help armenia , and still the aid cannot come into play because turkey has imposed an economic blockade , and so many things cannot get through to the armenians at all .
we feel that precisely because turkey has embarked on a new type of relationship with the european union , and also because turkey now has to respond to the european union ' s positions on common foreign and security policy issues , we will , to be frank , be testing turkey ' s will as regards the european union ' s priorities in its foreign relations .
our relationship with armenia , as evinced by the agreement we signed with that country last year , is of course one element in these foreign relations .
we also feel that , if turkey wishes to move towards sharing the fundamental values of the european union and the general framework of the european union ' s relations , regardless of whatever special bilateral conditions may apply to its own relations with any other country , it must in general act in accordance with the basic standards demonstrated by the european union in its foreign relations .
we are , moreover , convinced that this issue will be one of the priorities of the bilateral relations between the european union and turkey in the near future .
as they deal with the same subject , questions nos 5 and 6 will be taken together .
as i have already said in response to another question , the latest outbreak of hostilities in mitrovica is just another example of the difficulty of overcoming the distrust which has built up over decades .
therefore , in response to the current situation , the council has resolutely supported the establishment of the united nations mission in kosovo , unmik , has contributed to its budget and has taken responsibility for the so-called " fourth unmik pillar " , which is concerned with economic reconstruction and rehabilitation .
in these circumstances , i think that unmik , together with the other international bodies and organisations involved , must have made some progress in relation to some of the objectives stated in resolution 1244 , although we are still a long way from a situation which is at all satisfactory .
the european union has appealed to the serbs in kosovo to reconsider their boycott of this structure so that they can contribute to a multi-ethnic region and assure themselves a place in the new administrative structures .
although we have already made a substantial contribution , we must recognise that , until now , as i have already said , the eu member states have not been able to detach officers to this police force , which has proven to be a very damaging factor for the operation of a public security structure .
as i have said , in accordance with the conclusions of the general affairs council of 24 january , the member states are doing their utmost to find additional police personnel , and the most recent general affairs council reiterated this position .
we feel that a large part of the solution to the kosovo problem - and there cannot be very much doubt about this - also relates to the problem of stabilising the countries involved .
these are signs of the european union ' s goodwill towards the situation in serbia .
we shall make appropriate gestures towards serbia , in terms of providing services , of lifting sanctions , when serbia ' s behaviour , both on the international stage and in its relations with its neighbouring countries , and its behaviour within its own borders , is in tune with what we consider to be the fundamental principles governing the international community and the behaviour of " decent " countries on the world stage .
should nato not at the very least acknowledge fault for its deliberate targeting of the belgrade tv tower and killing over 20 civilian journalists , which remains a severe moral blemish on the conduct of the war and now opens the embarrassment of a possible indictment for war crimes against our western leaders ?
in any event , i , on behalf of the council , do not wish to make a value judgement about any specific military action carried out by nato .
mr president-in-office of the council , since i know the history of the balkans , i should like to remind you that , for many decades , the peoples of yugoslavia lived in peace .
what i said and what i explained in a previous answer is that there are civilian targets linked with structures which are objects for military action , and you know as well as i do that some military actions not only go for military targets , but also for civilian targets and structures which are connected with military action .
as i said , we are not making value judgements about specific actions .
as you know , the charter stems from a decision of the cologne european council .
today , we are perhaps already thinking along different lines , or at least some of us are .
there have only been two meetings of the preparatory group for the charter of fundamental rights ; this group is now called the convention for the eu charter of fundamental rights .
i would like to say , as a member of the portuguese delegation , that we regard economic and social rights as a vital part of the european union ' s heritage , and understand that they must be part of any european union charter and of any corpus of european union values .
as i said , mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou , we are not in control of the procedure for drawing up the charter of fundamental rights .
you know that there is a parliamentary delegation chaired by mr mendez de vigo and a committee on constitutional affairs where these issues can be debated at great length .
i therefore ask that both questions and answers be very brief .
i am sure that the president-in-office of the council is prepared to answer everything , but i must ensure that this sitting consists of questions and answers .
mr rubig , as president-in-office , i cannot give you an answer for the simple reason that the statement by the portuguese prime minister on behalf of the fourteen heads of state and government of the member states of the european union was adopted bilaterally and not by him in his capacity as president-in-office of the council of the european union .
i do not wish to dwell on this subject on behalf of the council presidency , because my government intervened at the request of , and in conjunction with , fourteen member states and not in its presidency capacity .
the agreement on guidelines for export credit which enjoy official support have been in force within the oecd since 1978 .
the objective of these guidelines is precisely to see that officially backed export credits are used properly , that is in a transparent and disciplined way .
as you know , most oecd countries are already party to this agreement and the european community as such , and not the member states individually , is also party to this agreement , in accordance with article 133 , formerly article 113 of the treaty on european union .
with regard to the g8 , and in accordance with paragraph 32 of the cologne summit statement of june 1999 , it is stated that we will work with the oecd towards common environmental guidelines for institutions that promote export .
we aim to conclude this work by the time the g8 summit is held in 2001 .
as you know , the member states of the european union are playing a central role in this process and in this discussion .
furthermore , it was in this context that a representative of the united kingdom stated in 1999 that he envisaged guaranteeing that export credit insurance would take second place to safeguarding the type of issue that you mentioned in your question , mrs lucas .
it goes without saying that the involvement of the member states ' governments and official export credit agencies in the ilisu dam project has been in compliance with european union , oecd and g8 political and legal requirements and commitments , in the case of the g8 by those countries belonging to that group .
i ask this because of the issue of coherence , the subject of this morning ' s discussion .
i would like to say that the council will only be able to respond to that part of your question in writing , at a later date .
question no 9 by ( h-0044 / 00 ) : subject : environmental problems caused by the drogheda port company development project , and the role of the court of auditors a major conflict between environmental conservation and structural development interests has arisen in the area of the boyne estuary , ireland , following a development project of the drogheda port company .
i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the budget of the european union is approved by common agreement between the council and this parliament .
for years the council has been blocking the strategic development impact assessment of plans and programmes .
it is extremely important .
question no 10 by ( h-0053 / 00 ) : subject : statute for members of the european parliament the council and parliament are going to try to reach agreement on a statute for the members of the european parliament .
will the portuguese presidency clarify its position on this matter ? . ( pt ) the portuguese presidency is particularly interested in this issue , as i suppose that this is the first time a presidency has made resolving the problem of a statute for members of the european parliament a priority in its programme .
the portuguese presidency made reaching an agreement on this statute one of its priorities , as furthermore , did the president of the european parliament , when she stated this at the helsinki european council .
we are therefore in perfect and total agreement in our concern to achieve a positive outcome on this matter .
it is worth pointing out once more that this compromise will require the unanimous support of the council , in accordance with article 190 , and the assent of this parliament , to which it falls to approve this statute .
i myself had an opportunity to meet this group , for the first time , in parallel with the january part-session , and i am trying to arrange to do so again soon in order to continue these discussions .
these discussions have also recommenced more intensively in the relevant bodies of the council , and i think that i can say , in a spirit of openness and greater flexibility , and because we all recognise the importance that this has , particularly for the general public , that drawing up this statute is a vital factor in ensuring both the dignity of the functions of members of the european parliament and the necessary transparency and good management of public funds .
my basic view is that one ought to pay tax in the country in which one lives , in which one ' s family lives and in which one benefits from public services .
this sensitivity is reflected in the way in which the presidency of the council of the european union expresses itself in a specific context in relation to particular situations .
i am therefore perfectly aware of this problem .
i do not want to enter into this type of discussion because i think that it might , to use a french expression , prejuger the portuguese presidency ' s views in the course of the negotiations in which it is involved on the statute for members .
since the time allotted to questions to the council has elapsed , questions nos 11 to 35 will be replied to in writing .
you addressed plenary in strasbourg nearly six years ago , in march 1994 , and many of us , who were already european members of parliament at that time , still have a vivid recollection of your speech .
in fact , shortly after the maastricht treaty was ratified , you spoke in favour of strengthening european values , creating a european ethical dimension and opening the union to the countries of central and eastern europe .
in other words , for many citizens , and not just in your country , you personify the european values to which we constantly voice our attachment .
there have been extremely dynamic developments in relations between the union and the czech republic following two european elections and a major new reform of the european treaties .
the end of this artificial separation of europe marked the start of a new era .
you founded and signed charter 77 , the human rights movement which represented and called for fundamental values during a dark period in the history of your people .
a communist regime sentenced you to five years in prison for defending human freedom and dignity .
but you never lost hope and history proved you right .
ten years ago , the " velvet revolution " proclaimed havel na hrad .
the european union , for its part , will need to adapt its institutions and policies in order to prepare for enlargement .
our responsibility as members of the european parliament is to ensure that the process of enlargement takes place in an climate of optimum openness and transparency so that , when the time comes , the citizens of the european union and the citizens of the czech republic will approve the accession of the czech republic to the european union through their elected representatives .
there does not appear to be a great tradition of considered europeanism in europe .
moreover , if europe has thought so little about its own identity in the past , that is no doubt because it considered itself , wrongly , to be the entire world ; or at least it considered itself to be better than the rest of the world , because it did not feel the need to define itself in relation to others .
thinking about europeanism means asking what set of values , ideals or principles puts you in mind of the notion of europe , even what is typical of europe .
and , hence , quickly realising that numerous european traditions , values or principles are typically highly ambiguous and may lead to ruin if exaggerated , exploited or abused .
if the european union is shortly to open its doors to new democracies and , in my view , it is in its vital interest to do so , it is extremely important , if not of capital importance , that it help to reconstruct and develop the civil society in these countries .
it knew full well that it would never gain real control of the people while the various grass-roots structures of the civil society continued to function .
what remained of a genuine civil society lived and developed in direct or indirect resistance .
and european values survived in this milieu not thanks to the political regime , but in spite of it .
and in a supranational entity as big as the european union , which needs to function as an instrument of solidarity , the real civil foundations must be even more stronger and even richer .
the viability of the european union therefore depends mainly , perhaps above all , on the spirit in which its citizens accept a civil european identity .
the attitude of governments should be informed by the attitude of its citizens .
the concern for security is another expression of social solidarity .
this is the job of the state or of a supranational grouping .
the european union has started working intensively on a new concept for its security policy .
first , respect for life and human dignity and the concern for european security may , under certain circumstances , call for intervention beyond the borders of the european union .
however , one can also imagine the unfortunate situation in which there is no un mandate and yet intervention is in the interest of the whole of europe and human civilisation as we know it .
secondly , more effort needs to be made in the area of preventive security .
in kosovo and serbia , as in bosnia-herzegovina and other parts of former yugoslavia , tens of thousands of human lives and countless property could have been saved if the international community had been capable of appropriate reaction earlier , when the conflict broke out . ( applause ) unfortunately , despite all the appeals , despite all the warnings of possible or imminent atrocity , nothing happened .
thirdly , the united states played the leading role in this particular instance and it is highly probable that , without their intervention , the international community , not knowing what to do , would today still be witnessing the atrocities which led to intervention in kosovo .
the idea of two europes living cheek by jowl , the idea of a democratic , stable , prosperous europe on the road to integration and a less democratic , less stable and less prosperous europe is , in my view , completely illusory .
as a single political entity , europe has an opportunity today which it has never had throughout its turbulent history ; the opportunity to construct a profoundly fair and peaceful order based on the principle of equality and cooperation by all sides .
no more acts of violence perpetrated by the powerful on the less powerful ; instead , understanding and general consensus , however difficult they are and however long they take to achieve , should be the guiding principle behind the structure and stability of europe in the next millennium .
allow me to mention two more specific points which i have alluded to on several occasions and which could , in my view , help to achieve these objectives in the more distant future .
the second would describe the main institutions of the european union , their main powers and the relations between them .
it seems to me that one possibility might be to create a second chamber in the european parliament .
this would mean that the commission , for example , would not need to have one member per state and the national parliaments could be involved in a much more " hands on " manner .
whatever the process or outcome of institutional reform or the reform which i mentioned , one thing would appear to be certain : disagreement or the absence of consensus on institutional issues should not hamper the enlargement of the european union .
however , this responsibility should never take the form of forcibly enforcing its own values , ideas or heritage on the rest of the world .
it can make savings , impose hardships , respect - in the best spiritual tradition - the higher cosmic order as something which is above and beyond us and respect the moral order as the consequence of that higher order .
i have taken note of your words ; this is something which we all feel very deeply .
we find you faithful to the principles which have always guided you , which have always guided your actions ; your attachment to fundamental values .
and you very opportunely highlighted the role of the civil society , the importance of the civil society , not just in the candidate countries , but in all the countries in the european union , in restoring our citizens ' confidence , in restoring confidence in the social solidarity which we need .
however , it is normal practice that the report on the work of the acp-eu joint assembly is put before members of this parliament and i have the pleasant task of doing that tonight .
the acp-eu joint assembly is a unique organisation in world politics .
the strasbourg assembly was the last chaired by lord plumb .
in honour of the tremendous work he carried out over a difficult period the joint bureau in nassau made him an honorary president , and we wish him well in his retirement .
the two assemblies have been dominated by the negotiations on renewal of the lome convention and i look forward to the signature of a new convention and its rapid ratification by all the countries concerned .
well , he was wrong , and i pay tribute to philip lowe and his team who have worked so successfully behind the scenes to conclude a new convention in very difficult circumstances .
i also thank the working groups on the small island states and climate change and the follow-up group on fisheries for their excellent reports .
we have had question times to the council and the commission and to the acp council , and i would like to thank those institutions for their interest in our work .
the resolution passed went so far as to say that poverty amounted to a violation of human rights .
we had , as usual , many debates on countries where there are war situations .
this highlights the problems of coherence between the eu and the developing nations , which came to a head at the wto talks in seattle .
in nassau , we had two interesting debates on east timor and cuba .
on east timor , mr da costa , from the timorese national resistance council , gave a very moving address indicating that east timor would also like to join the acp when it becomes a state with a government .
a number of cases have been highlighted , including the child soldier issue in sudan , where many children have been abducted from neighbouring states .
secondly , the new convention allows for regional assemblies in the six regions , which would allow us to be much more specific in our work .
we are going to have one in abuja in west africa too .
the joint assembly should play a leading role in monitoring the enactment of good governance , human rights and democracy in cooperation with the commission .
our approach to development policy must always be based on respect for human rights and the fight against poverty .
in future , the eu must take a far more multilateral approach when it agrees development projects and , furthermore , must coordinate more closely with the individual states in order to improve efficiency and use the funding more effectively .
at the same time the number of partner states has increased considerably , now standing at 71 .
fighting poverty and promoting sustained economic , cultural and social development are important objectives in the endeavour to build up democratic societies , based on respect for human rights , in the acp states .
one special aspect of multilateral cooperation with the acp states is regional cooperation and integration .
for the same reason the european parliament has always called for civil society to be involved in the decision-making processes and in cooperation management , and emphasised the importance of decentralised cooperation .
i hope it does not take another 25 years before we finally achieve that too .
mr president , i congratulate mr corrie on his report .
but of course the new convention must be measured not by the fact that it exists but by the extent to which it can contribute to the eu commitment to poverty eradication and the achievement of the international development targets .
during a marathon negotiating session in december a compromise was reached which provided that , in respect of least-developed , landlocked and island states , assistance would be provided in the event of a minimum 2 % loss of export earnings rather than the level of 10 % for the other acp states .
yet it is quite clear that even after a transitional period a number of countries will simply be unable to open their markets yet to the chill winds of free trade without wrecking their own domestic economy .
we need to ensure that strategies for promoting regional integration within the acp are pursued in their own right .
finally , during any new trade round the eu and the acp states should press jointly for a reform of gatt article 24 in order to explicitly provide regional non-reciprocal trade agreements between structurally and economically dissimilar groups of countries .
that reflects the growth of inequality between eu and acp countries .
the lome convention essentially benefits a few large industrial or financial conglomerates , which continue to pillage those countries and perpetuate their economic dependence , notably on the former colonial powers .
my next contribution to the debate is to turn my attention to globalisation and the wto , which is seen by the acp countries as an enormous danger to their development .
thirdly , the european parliament - through a joint working group within the joint assembly - must make a major effort to achieve stability in acp countries ' budgets through the selection of budgetary items to permit economic and , above all , social development , and by monitoring income and fiscal policies in force in the acp countries .
i shall restrict my speech to one particular act which took place a few days ago , partly as a consequence of events alluded to in the report we are debating here .
a cuban delegation attended the last meeting of the acp-eu joint assembly in nassau , and vice-chancellor dalmau spoke in the plenary session , engaging in a lively debate , and afterwards held conversations with many of us .
secondly , we must bear in mind that cuba ' s application has the support of all the acp countries .
nor can we ignore the value of such a decision in demonstrating the consistency and autonomy of the european union and the fact that it does not bow to pressure from any quarter .
by accepting cuba into the acp community we will be demonstrating that our europe is not involved in the shameful process of ' playing but not paying ' , and that , when we get indignant about absurdities like the helms-burton act , we are not being hypocritical but are ready to act and take all the consequences .
the acp-eu joint assembly meets again in a few weeks time and i am sure this subject will be dealt with there .
it must also be made clear that cuba is not going to be asked for more than has been asked of our other partners .
the eradication of poverty was central to our work and many speakers highlighted the need to preserve an essential tool for achieving that ambitious aim , to whit , preferential agreements between the european union and the acp countries within the framework of the lome conventions .
so we can only applaud the conclusion of a new partnership agreement for development , and personally i am convinced that the work of the last joint assembly did have a decisive influence on breaking the deadlock in the negotiations , as did the new climate created by the events at seattle .
by refusing to allow the idea of good governance to become a tool , in the hands of technocrats , for imposing new sets of conditions , the european union is demonstrating wisdom and modesty .
mr president , commissioner , firstly , i too would like to congratulate mr corrie on the accuracy and rigour of the summary in his report .
the european parliament ' s opinion on the activities of the acp-european union joint assembly has always had a major impact , undeniably contributing to a consistent policy and role for the european union in development and cooperation .
the important role of the increasingly parliamentary joint assembly in strengthening relations between the european union and the acp countries needs to be stressed .
poverty has been the common denominator of all the debates in the joint assembly and its eradication is the priority for the european union ' s development policy .
in line with the resolution at the nassau meeting , we must concentrate on meeting the poverty reduction targets agreed by the international community .
the next lome convention must specify the investment in education and stimulate regional cooperation and the participation of local bodies .
people in the poor countries are beginning to despair .
i call on the commission to act on the rapid accession of east timor to the lome convention as one means , amongst others , of promoting the eradication of poverty and accelerating its economic , cultural and social development , in order to strengthen its internal democratisation .
the commission is pleased to see the joint assembly playing a larger role , especially in connection with promoting a more extensive political dialogue with our partners in development .
in order to be able to develop , the countries concerned must , however , become actively involved in the global economic system .
with regard to trade with our partners in development , the commission is quite prepared to guarantee that any new arrangement will take account of the acp countries ' special economic and social limitations .
it operates too slowly , and it therefore stands to reason that the developing countries should have said yes to the new system of the future , because this will operate more flexibly .
regarding the future accession of countries such as east timor to the lome convention , i can only repeat what i recently said to the european parliament ' s committee on development and cooperation , namely , that the door is open .
with regard to cuba ' s application for accession to the lome convention , the commission notes that , according to their recent declaration , the acp states support cuba ' s application .
the eu has always called for a constructive attitude to be adopted towards cuba , as outlined in the eu ' s common position , but it has to be recognised that the discussions will be complex .
in this regard , i am simply pleased - delighted , in fact - here this evening , as a conclusion to this debate , to be able , very appropriately , to inform you that south africa ' s president has today said yes to the solution which the eu ' s council of foreign ministers last monday agreed unanimously to propose with regard to the outstanding problems regarding south africa .
i think this rather nicely puts the finishing touches to a debate which has , on the whole , been quite positive , and i would repeat my thanks to the rapporteur and to parliament for the cooperation which has gone into our relations with the third world on precisely the work in question .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
mr president , commissioner patten , today we are discussing a country that really has suffered hard times , a country that is , however , moving in a very promising direction , thanks to its own efforts and resolve and certainly also thanks to the support of the international community .
so if the european union , the council and the commission are proposing - and i assume that parliament will support that proposal tomorrow - the first stabilisation and association agreement in south-eastern europe , in the balkan region - i am quite happy to use that term - it is primarily in gratitude for or acknowledgement of the fact that fyrom itself has worked its way into a good position , in economic and , of course , mainly in political terms , in face of the war in the neighbouring region and also in relation to its own minority .
that country and its politicians - no doubt with some differences here and there - have always done very good work , and we should recognise that .
let me make a few comments on aspects on which views may differ somewhat , although , even in this regard , i want to strongly emphasise and acknowledge commissioner patten ' s activities and interest in relation to fyrom and the region as a whole .
the problem is that , when we look at fyrom , we can see how very difficult it is to cooperate economically with some neighbouring countries , such as kosovo and albania , or to cooperate politically with , for instance , yugoslavia .
tomorrow morning i will therefore table an amendment urging that we concentrate the sanctions on the regime itself while easing them somewhat for the people and for the economy in a spirit of economic cooperation .
fyrom wants to be told here and now that , in principle , accession will be possible when the time is right .
as you can see , our macedonian friends have always played a very positive role and it is for this reason that it should be pointed out at this stage that macedonia is not just a pawn in our so-called strive towards stability , but actually took the initiative .
despite the obvious reasons for any internal tension , both population groups have struck a reasonable modus vivendi and the outlook for reaching a sound solution to the remaining problems is good .
with regard to the problems afflicting macedonia , higher education for the albanian-speaking citizens deserves our special attention .
i am more than happy to include bulgaria and romania in this , as it seems to me a tactical and psychological error only to talk about the five countries of former yugoslavia , plus albania .
in the meantime , we constantly need to start from the premise in our policy that it is desirable for macedonian legislation to resemble that of the member states , and our policy should reflect this , even in the naming of aid programmes for macedonia .
mr president , the name of the republic is still a problem on account of the greek sensitivities surrounding it .
we do so in the awareness that this decision , the very first relating to that area , is actually set in the context of an entirely new phase of our relations with the balkans .
our agreement to the negotiations , as set out in the rapporteur ' s explanatory statement , is born of the conviction that it is right for union policy to combine both a regional dimension and a more precise assessment of efforts made and results achieved by individual countries in moving towards the acquis communautaire .
on the other hand , the price macedonia has been paying for the war in neighbouring kosovo is very high , both in terms of logistic availability of nato forces and in terms of reduced exports to northern europe .
very rapid and direct involvement of south-east europe in the life of the european institutions has also led us to suggest that a limited number of observers invited from the national parliaments should be accepted into the european parliament , and that staff from those countries could work in the court of justice and the commission .
this is certainly true for the relations between the european union and the western balkans .
the debate on the stability pact , the debate on the cara programme and the financing arrangements in the short term are all pending .
mr president , we did not need to witness the end the kosovo conflict to reach the conclusion that , after various wars in the territory of the former yugoslavia , with their untold negative effects on the stability of the balkans , a global and durable strategy for the whole region is needed , aimed at guaranteeing peace and stability in south-east europe .
this strategy , which took shape in the stability pact adopted on 10 june 1999 in cologne , considers south-east europe as a whole , but simultaneously recognises the diversity and unequal development of the various countries that compose the region .
the evidence is that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is politically and economically capable of establishing new contractual relations with the european union , going beyond the cooperation agreement in force since 1 june 1998 , which in practice targets respect for the acquis communautaire , especially in key areas of the internal market .
it is true that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia still has a long way to go , but , given the political and economic reforms already made in the context of the cooperation agreement , and with transitional periods accepted for certain domains , the country will be able to fulfil the conditions for a stabilisation and association agreement .
we share the view that its development is a factor for stability in the region , we approve the terms of the negotiating mandate as proposed , emphasising that what is involved is a bilateral agreement with the european union , and we agree with the rapporteur when he stresses that this is the first concrete application of an integrated long term strategy for south-east europe , and that the issue is how the balkans can be structured in the long term in order to guarantee peace and stability .
the various references made to regional cooperation with the neighbouring countries in fact become politically relevant in this context .
this agreement can and must become an example to the other countries in the region .
we are aware that some of them are already undergoing processes of democratic stabilisation , that others still need to affirm the democratic authority of their governments , and that equilibrium in others depends on the military presence in the zone , but they are all countries which now know that , once they have overcome their difficulties , a bridge is available to provide an effective link with the european union .
i think this report is a small masterpiece of hypocrisy .
we know there are 13 applicant countries , from lithuania to turkey , and just one black hole in europe , the balkans , but because these countries are denied the opportunity to become applicants , we want to make them believe that this agreement is a miracle .
paragraph 11 indicates that symbolic measures can replace the shared political outlook represented by applicant status .
mr president , commissioner , the balkans are not purely a dark cave , politically speaking .
in brief , the european union knows what to do in macedonia : to help this local port of refuge - recently used by scores of war refugees - to fulfil its role properly as a catalyst for the planned stability pact in the balkans .
i believe that the opening of these negotiations on the stability and association process is the logical conclusion of a salutary and positive trend in that country .
let me name just two small ones : the rapid resolution of the problem of the frontier crossing with kosovo in blace and the creation of corridor 8 , from albania via macedonia to bulgaria .
macedonia remains a potential minefield and has a history to match .
the new government would like to tackle this matter and the agreement could be an agenda for reforms , including a direct role and equality for the albanian minority .
more than anything , the country needs peace and quiet now , in order to put its internal house in order and to find the road to greater prosperity .
external stability also means open borders and regional cooperation .
macedonia ' s stability is very much linked with the developments in the neighbouring countries .
the union considers it untimely to reach a stability and association agreement with this country .
fertile soil for the growth of democracy in this war-ravaged part of europe is best provided through trade and economic integration .
it is therefore with great satisfaction that we welcome the proposal that is now being made for a stabilisation and association agreement with macedonia , and we thank mr swoboda for a very good report .
we should do exactly the same for the other countries in the balkans .
all this , in exchange for the promise of future accession to the european union .
the report accepts these attitudes along with the more general policy of the european union on south-eastern europe .
finally , because we consider that both the stability pact and the stabilisation and association process the european union is implementing in countries in that area , will create new problems there , new tribulations for their peoples , and will reinforce the dominant role of the american and european imperialists , we will be voting against the report in an expression of our solidarity with the people of fyrom .
mr president , commissioner , one of the most basic aims of the european union ' s stability and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is to establish stability and peace in the area , and this , of course , presupposes developing and maintaining good neighbourly relations between the countries involved .
on the contrary , i think that this demand can only be considered satisfied by a de jure full normalisation of fyrom ' s relations with all its neighbours .
in that sense , the agreement we will be voting on tomorrow , which contributes towards stability in the area , is de facto a move in the right direction .
from that standpoint , the fact that so far it has resisted any influences from its wider environment is a very positive element and under no circumstances should any of us , any state , any policy or any view , impel that small republic towards external , disruptive movements in an effort to solve other problems , granted - let it be noted - that it has institutions which it can build upon still further and so become a real democracy .
you should know that the country which cooperates most with fyrom and has the best relations with it , in the entire area , is greece , and this has contributed greatly to the stability of the area .
the council adopted on 24 january this year its negotiating directives for a stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia .
they cover the prospect of the establishment of a free trade area between the european union and them within ten years of the entry into force of the agreement .
the agreement could enter into force in three to four years from now , given the time needed for ratification in member states ' parliaments .
on the provision of regional aid referred to in the report we agree that our technical and financial assistance should go in part to projects having a cross-border or regional dimension .
i hope that the other countries of the region will redouble their efforts to make similar progress .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m .
that is why , in accordance with declaration no 31 , annexed to the treaty of amsterdam , the union institutions have undertaken a complex task of negotiation and consultation , resulting in the new council decision , which revises the old system quite substantially , although we are not entirely satisfied with it .
essentially , the agreement deals with two points : one is the right of the european parliament to be informed , which is the sine qua non for the genuine exercise of its right to intervene pursuant to article 8 of the decision .
paragraphs 6 and 7 of the agreement confirm that , as a general rule , the european parliament will adopt its resolution , stating its reasons , at a plenary sitting and has one month to exercise its right of intervention before the commission adopts the draft implementing measure .
but we all realise that it is not always possible to wait a month before implementing a measure .
the procedures for exercising these implementing powers take the form of a limited number of committee procedures .
for the european parliament , the first step in the struggle for more transparency in this jungle of committees was to be informed , at least , of all that the european commission intended to regulate in the context of these various committees .
a further step towards transparency and the involvement of the european parliament came with what is known as the modus vivendi of 20 september 1994 , which granted parliament the right not only to be informed but also to intervene in certain cases .
in matters relating to the health and safety of the people of the european union , the european commission , as guardian of the treaties and the only institution with the right of initiative , must be in a position to react very rapidly , if necessary within a few hours or days .
the whole system will be more open and transparent - if still rather complex .
the council will no longer be able to block implementing measures indefinitely beyond the three-month period unless it has a qualified majority to block it , in other words , unless there is substantial opposition among the member states represented in the council .
but on our other two criticisms , we are less satisfied .
the first criticism is of the system whereby the commission is monitored , scrutinised , controlled if you like , only by a committee appointed by member states or the council not by parliament .
the legislative authority , council and parliament , should be equal .
we confer implementing powers on the commission , but then it is only a council or member state appointed body that can blow the whistle and say no to the commission and stop the implementing measure .
even here , we have renounced voluntarily - because this did not happen automatically - the plumb-delors agreement as part of the overall compromise .
mr corbett referred to that , but the new model is certainly much more complex , different because the situation is now different , and , in our opinion , much more coherent .
we hope that this new climate means we have achieved the result we were seeking , which is greater transparency and better information about the decisions of the commission as an executive .
thank you very much , commissioner solbes mira .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m .
to date , the member states have calculated this gdp in accordance with the criteria laid down in esa 79 .
we know the member states have done their duty - if i can use that expression - doing their calculations and preparing their national accounts in line with esa 95 , and they have already published their corresponding estimates .
these changes may of course alter the government deficits in terms of the member states ' national accounting .
i will now describe , very briefly , the five areas where the most important changes may occur .
the non-availability of precise criteria for the definition of government deficit would produce distortions in the estimates of the member states ' government deficits .
fourthly , government debt is defined in accordance with esa 95 , as are the flows or interest stemming from assets / liabilities .
to summarise , i consider that this proposal constitutes a satisfactory adaptation of the criteria laid down in the 1995 european system of accounts , and i therefore approve it in full , as did the committee .
we need that because the various european union bodies and all the member states within monetary union have to be able to depend on one another .
the regulation dating from 1993 on the application of the protocol must be brought into harmony with the methodology of the european system of accounts at national and regional level .
let me also briefly use this debate as an opportunity to urge all the governments and political parties to do their utmost to ensure that this procedure never has to be initiated for an excessive deficit .
in my country , austria , new elections had to be held in 1995 in order to meet the maastricht criteria and persuade our political partner to rethink his approach .
the stability pact is a given in europe .
strict compliance with the stability pact can thus contribute to a culture of stability within all emu member states .
various member states have taken one-off measures to be able to meet the criteria .
we are of the opinion that the member states ' budget policy should be strictly supervised , to ensure that the measures continue to be taken in the spirit of the prescribed criteria at all times .
the figures will be more reliable and more comparable and i think the concerns some members have raised about compliance with the stability pact can be better addressed .
this regulation is purely instrumental .
it does deal with the substance of the problem some of you have raised .
the stability pact is in place and we will continue to press ahead with monitoring compliance by the various member states , despite the fact that the results are clearly positive in all the member states where we have analysed the position as regards the stability of the government deficit .
we must press on in that direction because we know it is vital .
thank you very much , commissioner solbes mira .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m .
the ecb , ecofin , europol , olaf and the commissioner responsible for legal questions have therefore realised that common countermeasures must be taken quickly in order to close the loopholes left by the legislation .
it is easy to forget that it will be possible to exchange the old currencies for twenty years after the new currency has been introduced .
the council ought to have given parliament the stipulated three-month period within which to consider , too , the last document produced on this matter , but we are all aware of how urgent it is to have these measures put safely in place .
on 1 january 2002 the euro will be in circulation .
it is essential that the decision should now be taken in march .
the protective measures cover these countries too , and the views expressed by these countries have carried a lot of weight .
due to its importance on a world scale , the euro will be particularly exposed to the risk of counterfeiting and forgery .
this draft decision therefore lays down a set of minimum standards intended to harmonise criminal law in this field and make its application by each member state simpler and more effective .
it also provides for the euro to be protected even prior to its circulation , which will fill a gap in legislation in some member states .
the provisions of a timeworn international convention that is a good 71 years old .
so the council is naturally worried and is seeking to establish sanctions , primarily criminal , applicable in all the countries of europe , against offences of this kind .
no doubt the council could have been satisfied with a simple resolution recommending that member states adopt national legislation to that effect .
the draft framework decision before us today tries to cover up this lacuna by referring to articles 31 and 34 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the treaty .
article 31 only envisages minimum common rules for criminal acts in certain cases , specifically restricted to organised crime , terrorism and drug trafficking .
article 34 , a product of the treaty of amsterdam , only lays down the new form of a framework decision , and clearly this only applies to the existing powers of the european union .
in other words , the council has not succeeded in giving this text a credible legal basis .
in a way , this is deferred punishment for its lack of honesty , at the time , in presenting the maastricht treaty to the voters .
not so long ago we were dealing with one or more reports on questions of principle relating to the euro in virtually every part-session .
however , there are many underlying problems yet to be resolved .
do i also need to mention that investors who sold dollars to buy euros have lost 20 % since 1 january 1999 , 40 % if they bought bonds , and no less than 55 % if they sold yen to buy euros ?
criminal law is part of each individual nation ' s own cultural tradition , and it is very difficult to arrive at common definitions of what is to be understood by these basic legal concepts .
in my view , it is clearly in conflict with , and far exceeds the scope of , article 34 , paragraph 2 , point b where a legal basis is established for so-called framework decisions which are binding upon the member states in regard to the desired objectives , but in which it is left to the national authorities to determine the form and methods of implementation .
for the safety of the euro is not just a matter of the stability and external value of the currency but , in fact , also of protecting the euro against counterfeiting .
that too is a concern of the people , for , as has rightly been said , this will be a new currency for them , new in terms of how it looks and also how it is used .
as has also been pointed out , in summer 1998 the commission submitted a communication listing a very wide variety of areas where measures need to be taken , such as information , further training - an important area , cooperation between the euro-states and of course even beyond them , and measures under criminal law .
the framework decision will , however , have to be supplemented by other legal acts in future .
the commission will submit a proposal for a regulation on cooperation between all the responsible authorities and on cooperation with europol .
that proposal will establish a duty to cooperate , and a duty on the part of the national authorities to notify europol of cases of counterfeiting and to present any confiscated counterfeit money to the european central bank for identification and classification , so that effective measures can then be taken .
on the question of coordinating the various measures , since early 1998 , the commission , followed now by olaf , has been working with experts on the subject from the member states , the european central bank and europol on means of effectively combating counterfeiting of the euro in advance .
i believe that this debate shortly before midnight will also teach a salutary lesson to all those counterfeiters who believe their hour has come , because they think the eu is no longer awake at this late hour !
thank you very much , commissioner schreyer .
the debate is closed .
proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 85 / 611 / eec on the coordination of laws , regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investments in transferable securities ( ucits ) with a view to regulating management companies and simplified prospectuses ( com ( 1998 ) 451 - c4-0465 / 1998 - 1998 / 0242 ( cod ) ) ; ii .
proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 85 / 611 / eec on the coordination of laws , regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investments in transferable securities ( ucits ) ( com ( 1998 ) 449 - c4-0464 / 1998 - 1998 / 0243 ( cod ) ) . . ( sv ) mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it is my hope that parliament is prepared now to make a decision to extend and strengthen the financial market in europe .
the main purpose of the first proposal is to extend the investment opportunities of collective investment undertakings by allowing them to invest in units in other collective investment undertakings , for example units in funds , standardised options and futures contracts and deposits in credit institutions and in certain types of money market instruments .
the current situation is not good .
as the draftsperson for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , i also wish to place on record my thanks to the secretariat of both the legal affairs committee and the economic affairs committee for their cooperation on this matter .
i am speaking today wearing a number of hats : firstly , as the surrogate father of this report ; secondly , as the draftsperson of the opinion ; and most importantly , as one who sees the tremendous advantages which can be gained for the european union from a harmonised system of ucits investment to ensure that monies presently being earned in europe but invested outside the european union and not put to the benefit of the union economy can be retained within the economy for the creation of entrepreneurship , employment and also for guaranteeing future pension rights .
many members have been working on the basis of trying to protect their own countries ' national interests rather than improving the overall system for europe .
as indicated by the rapporteur , we are discussing probably one of the most important issues that we will ever have to discuss in this parliament .
everyone accepts that investments in derivatives must be legally limited in order to prevent a harmonised fund losing all its assets due to an investment in high-risk products .
as this issue will be returning to this house at some stage , i must highlight the working method used between the commission and this parliament .
mr president , the socialist group supports the commission ' s efforts to implement the action plan for financial services .
but the world of international finance is a dangerous one .
the capital markets are still at the mercy of their excesses .
in 1999 , the increase in the means of payment in the world resulted in over-stimulated stock exchanges and an explosion in the volume of transactions , pushing up the prices of long-term financial and real assets .
you do not need a nobel prize in economics to realise that the current working hypothesis of the financial markets , which anticipate annual growth in profits of the order of 15 to 25 % is quite simply unrealistic in the medium term .
by adopting these amendments , parliament will allow recourse to otc derivatives but will also limit the risk to private investors .
mr president , there is much talk at present of the principle of good governance .
this principle should not only guide the public sector , it should also guide the private sector , especially financial undertakings .
but even with a tailor-made derivative or otc derivative which would be cheaper , perhaps insuring you against a relative fall in your portfolio against the index , you would still have the portfolio and the shares , but you would have protected yourself against the risks of a collapse .
pension funds which suffered from rules on where they could and could not invest , as required by of our government bonds , made returns of 5.2 % a year , barely half the 9.5 % annual returns made by free funds between 1984 and 1996 .
do not confuse a real concern for the interests of investors with a populist fear of the new and the innovative and liberal approach that pays off .
mr president , the report presented to us today seeks to complete the free movement of financial investments in europe , including the most sophisticated forms of investment .
we shall therefore vote cautiously on all amendments limiting recourse to excessively derivative instruments and we shall vote in favour of all amendments which limit the excessive concentration of assets within a single financial group .
this attitude is turning europe into a machine which exempts investment income from tax and shifts the whole tax burden to commercial income , with all the social and even moral consequences which that implies .
mr president , the 1985 directive introduced a sort of european visa for certain types of ucits which could be marketed throughout the union .
this brings us to the two proposals for directives .
it is a step in the right direction , even if one wonders why in heaven , with what right and with what respect for our citizens , we are further bolstering the monopoly of the english language in all documents distributed throughout europe .
the same cannot be said of the first proposal .
we shall also vote against the abolition of the facility for the member states to increase to 35 % ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , this is a vital issue for europe .
ucits are a success story within the european union .
the radical step taken by this report is to allow ucits to use over-the-counter derivatives .
mr schmidt is to be applauded for having obtained the support of parliament for over-the-counter derivatives .
the report gives very adequate protection for consumers .
but a number of the amendments go too far in restricting the use of over-the-counter derivatives .
under the terms of the european passport for ucits , this means that national supervisory authorities have to apply uniform standards in monitoring products and management companies .
discretionary powers for national supervisory authorities must be restricted if we are to create transparency and people are to have faith in the products and management companies in the internal market .
it is therefore an important achievement of the ucits production line to have picked out as a central theme the association between derivatives and otc papers in the interests of efficient portfolio management , for one of the old directive ' s major disadvantages was that each regulatory body understood efficient portfolio management to mean something different .
the european parliament would be well advised to strengthen consumer protection in europe .
thank you very much mr kuckelkorn .
mr president , the ucits directive has been an enormous success since it entered into force on 1 october 1989 , mainly thanks to the excellent protection which it offers investors .
the directive and the reputation which ucits enjoy with investors have allowed the investment fund industry to multiply its assets in the european union fivefold .
there has been a strong increase in cross-border marketing of investments within the european union and the directive itself is used as a model for legislation throughout the world .
i share some of the concerns expressed here , especially by mr garcia-margallo y marfil , but this face-lift would be even more successful if the funds which simply reproduce a stock exchange index , and which are therefore managed either passively or not at all , and the funds which use an index as a benchmark for an actively-managed fund were treated in the same way , if only to allow medium-sized undertakings listed on the stock exchange but not included in the stock exchange index better access to the capital market .
in addition , investors often have better protection with an actively-managed fund .
my amendment no 47 is therefore a warning for amateurs .
at the end of 1999 there were almost 15 000 investment funds registered as ucits with a total value of in excess of eur 2 billion , thereby accounting for roughly 75 % of all funds assets .
hence the commission rightly cited the economic importance thereof in its proposals for draft directives , and i must say that i actually have every confidence in the commission ' s proposal .
why do we not take our cue from the minimum level of protection afforded by the trade in transferable securities directive , article 11 for example , which relates to good practice ?
mr president , commissioner , the proposal for a directive now under discussion brings with it several welcome reforms to the current legal provisions .
firstly , i am very satisfied that the proposal for a directive as a whole increases the scope of investment funds for targeting capital at different instruments .
now i have been told that if you have a difficult debate you know you are in trouble if half the luxembourg members are in the chamber at one time - and they are .
secondly , we consider proposal no 2 to be very confused .
in this we are combining the interests of these citizens with the interests of pensioners who want to live life in tranquillity .
inappropriate restrictions on such relationships should be avoided at all costs , for they fail to take account of the european-style universal banking culture . . ( nl ) mr president , could i first of all express my heartfelt thanks to rapporteur , mr olle schmidt , and the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , which has principal authority , as well as the rapporteur , mr brian crowley and the members of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , whom i would like to thank for their thorough and important work on the refinement and extension of the proposals .
the two proposals form a coherent whole .
the first proposal extends the number of instruments in which an ' undertaking for collective investment in transferable securities ' ( ucits ) can invest .
as already remarked in this session , ucits are key players within the modern capital markets .
since diverse types of investment are permitted , private investors can also benefit from all the advantages of new investment techniques .
the second proposal expands the role which these important intermediary organisations can play within the eu capital markets in terms of developing the investment funds sector .
the commission will adopt amendments nos - and i am now referring to the most recent numbering - 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 9 , 13 , 19 and 21 for the first proposal , and 23 , 28 and 32 for the second proposal , since these are really very useful clarifications and improvements .
i also value the ideas put forward in amendments nos 1 , 10 , 11 , 14 , 18 and 20 , although the wording needs to be adapted .
i can also accept the idea in the second proposed paragraph of amendment no 47 .
this amendment could also lead to different interpretations in the member states , which might well look for similar instruments in other articles of the directive .
amendment no 16 jeopardises the protection of investors because a blocked security deposit with a third party custodian is a contradiction in terms .
amendment no 42 relates to a provision which was not changed by the proposal and which has not caused any problems since the implementation of the directive .
i therefore cannot see any reason why article 22 , paragraph 3 should be omitted and reject the amendment for this reason .
amendment no 44 cannot be accepted because , if it is prescribed that non-harmonised funds are subject to rules which have been ' imposed by the directive ' concerning lending , borrowing , selling from an uncovered position and the third party custodian , this will indeed lead to a situation where very few funds , for example swiss funds , would be eligible for investment .
amendment no 47 is unacceptable as far as the proposed changes to the first paragraph of article 22a are concerned , because this proposal completely clashes with the spreading rules of article 22 , especially when the ucits are obliged to indicate a point of reference in their prospectuses , as discussed in the council .
it seems inconsistent to opt for an extremely prudent approach with regard to investments as non-harmonised funds or deposits and , at the same time , freely to allow investments in clearly more risky otc instruments .
by rejecting the rapporteur ' s amendment no 39 , the committee on economic and monetary affairs has aligned itself with the council .
the upshot of this amendment by parliament would be that funds are allowed , in theory , to invest in otc instruments and to trade the rights of participation in their funds across the entire internal market .
given this possibly negative effect on the internal market and the risks inherent in otc instruments , the commission cannot accept amendments nos 12 , 15 , 37 , 38 , 39 , 43 , 46 and 48 and parts of amendments nos 17 , 36 and 45 which pertain to otc instruments .
the application of the provisions of the directive concerning the performance of services in the field of investments in securities , better known as isd , is therefore unnecessary and could lead to difficulties or confusion .
amendment no 33 is ambiguous regarding ' the language ' of the guest member state , especially when there are various official languages , and it is questionable what will be gained from translations in two other languages .
amendment no 35 cannot be accepted because legally , it cannot command any authority .
management companies which are denied access to a member state would need to re-incorporate as a different legal entity in order to be permitted in another member state .
amendments nos 49 , 50 and 51 , which share the same basis , are not acceptable because they make substantial changes to the consistent approach of the commission regarding the regulations of third party delegation , and do not offer sufficient security to the competent authorities and investors .
but hedging operations are already allowed in the existing article 21 ( 1 ) of directive 611 / 85 on ucits .
the separation of these two proposals which deal with two different sets of problems would facilitate the negotiating process in the council .
these are the reasons why the commission believes , because of the prudence that has to be exercised in this field , that these various limits are necessary .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 12 noon .
some of these differences have already been ironed out , but others persist .
it will also be built on scrupulous respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and on the guarantee of fair trials in particular .
mr president , it is our opinion that one facet of the construction of europe hinges on the construction of a common judicial system , for the europe that we want to build , which comprises administrative law , civil law , both substantive and procedural , and criminal law , both substantive and procedural .
the convention on mutual assistance and criminal matters , which we are examining today , is but a stitch in the great fabric of the corpus iuris of europe , which has its natural foundation in fundamental human rights and freedoms .
it is a curious thing when italy ' s criminal prosecution authorities , which are affected by what goes on in this parliament , see amendments tabled by people who are being prosecuted in italy itself - rightly , as i see it .
the goal is , after all , to provide the judicial bodies - magistrates , in the first place , but also the citizens involved - with the instruments to fight crime without prejudice to the fundamental guarantees of defence and the general principles of human rights .
this condition of accrual is essential since , in my opinion , the principle of nulla poena sine lege , legality in criminal law , must be observed .
as such , any request for legal assistance concerning a hypothetical action which is not a crime in the petitioned member state contravenes this principle of legality and thus the fundamental principles of justice in the petitioned member state .
thanks to the agreement , it is possible to create a chain of legal assistance requests , whereby each link represents authorities and criminal law systems of different member states .
mr president , the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters that we are examining today contains the minimum requirements for efficient and rapid cooperation between the various judicial or investigative bodies concerned .
the fact that the convention has not been turned into a framework agreement also constitutes a defeat for this parliament .
it is clear that the justice sector , more than any other , cannot be handled in an inconsistent or contradictory manner .
we will , in conclusion , vote against this report , while stressing that the europe to which we aspire is a europe of rights and guarantees : rights and guarantees that call for gradual and responsible discussion , as well as very serious examination .
there are two reasons why we are saying no .
mr president , alarmed as i am at the prejudgement issued by 14 member states , i maintain that the planned agreement can only signify a first step in the right direction .
however , i believe that it could be substantially improved with the aid of amendments and i feel that in this case a little is more than nothing at all .
on the other hand , our police forces and criminal prosecution authorities are organised at national level .
that is a whole host of measures that will help us to proceed efficiently and on a joint basis in matters of criminal law .
the overall result is remarkable and i hope that the council will fully take it into account .
there is , as has already been said , one point still to resolved , which is also the most delicate one : it concerns article 18 of the convention , which relates to the interception of communications originating in one member state , but which are directly performed by another member state , without the assistance being requested of the state in which the interception is being carried out , something which is now possible thanks to the latest technology .
the most important thing will be the harmonisation of the laws of the member states , but for now let us content ourselves with this small step forward , as it is a step in the right direction .
article 18 allows interception in another member state without its involvement .
an initiative of the fbi drew up the user requirements which form the basis of the current legislation .
the council proposal containing those requirements , enfopol 98 was approved by this parliament last may in the schmid report .
we are very concerned about the direction we are taking here without proper public debate within the national parliaments or elsewhere and without the involvement of civil liberties organisations throughout europe which are extremely concerned about these developments .
mr president , i am neither a member of the legal affairs committee nor a lawyer , but like almost all of us , i understand the need for this single economic area of europe to have its parallel in a single area of freedom , security and justice .
the presumed killer , sid ahmed rezala , is also strongly suspected of having murdered the british student isabel peake , who was raped and thrown out of the train taking her to see her parents , and another young woman , emilie bazin , who was found dead in amiens under a pile of coal in the building where he lived .
he should never have stayed in france , having been reported to the transport police more than 40 times for offences , which should have been enough for him to be expelled back to his home country .
he should never have been free because 14 charges of theft , violence and rape had been brought against him , one of which was for the rape of a minor .
mr president , this agreement deals with a sensitive issue : cooperation in the field of criminal law .
the council ' s proposal must comply with legislation of the national member states in the field of criminal law .
mr di pietro ' s proposal to omit the current article 18 regarding intercepting telecommunications , amongst other things , is understandable , although very strict .
the text of article 18 is ambiguous : he is restricting the activities of the intelligence services but seems to allow interception activities by a member state in another member state without the latter ' s prior authorisation .
pursuant to article 29 of the eu treaty , the union ' s objective is ' to provide citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom , security and justice by developing common action among the member states in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and by preventing and combating racism and xenophobia ' .
i should like to stress this point because it is paramount .
mr president , as you know , all of our countries abolished the death penalty years ago , but with nearly a thousand suicides a year in our prisons , they have not really abolished it ?
mr president , co-operation in the field of law is without doubt essential in free market europe , but it must hinge on the strictest respect for those principles which lie at the very heart of our civilisation : the fundamental human rights and freedoms , laid down in the european convention on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms .
i turn to mr schulz in confirming that we always submit amendments not on a personal basis or for personal motives , but in connection with general political concerns .
according to the action plan to combat organised crime adopted by the council in april 1997 , the work on the draft mla convention should have been finalised before the end of 1997 .
even with the new rules introduced by the treaty of amsterdam , foreseeing its entry into force once at least half of the member states have adopted the convention , i would like to urge the member states to do everything in their power to speedily ratify this convention .
instead it aims at building on tried and tested mechanisms that have been in place for a very long time , such as the ones foreseen by the council of europe convention on mutual assistance of 1959 and the benelux treaty .
the draft that the council has elaborated contains provisions on a variety of matters that have been discussed by several members of parliament .
we must recognise that article 18 concerns what is clearly a controversial decision .
the commission is fully aware of the fact that the draft we have before us is not perfect or ideal .
the text we have is the result of the mixture of the institutional set-ups foreseen for judicial cooperation in criminal matters under both the maastricht and amsterdam treaties respectively .
the words ' issued by ' also need to be added after the words ' transferable securities ' .
the amended text will then read , and again i must read it in english , which is the lingua franca of our parliament : ' transferable securities issued by over the counter derivatives dealt with ' , etc .
madam president , my apologies , i was looking at amendment no 36 , which logically precedes amendment no 37 .
the text therefore reads : ' instruments with a high rating base on a recognised rating scale are subject to reliable and verifiable valuation ' .
amendment no 83 in italian , which is the original version , states that ' il minore deve essere assistito da una persona di sua fiducia o da un perito o legale esterno ' .
i should like you , madam president , to express to the council our wish that they be present at such votes in future .
we want to bring this across in parliament .
however , i do not consider it would be appropriate to do this before all member states have approved commissioner monti ' s proposal for minimum taxes on capital .
brok report ( a5-0029 / 2000 ) madam president , there has recently been much talk of the importance of enlarging the european union .
we have before us malta and cyprus , which are two states keen to become members .
the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to set up the first programme to implement the strategy for cyprus and malta , starting in the year 2000 and lasting for five years ( 2000-2004 ) .
the proposal therefore aims to facilitate harmonisation of their legislation with the acquis communautaire and the correct application of the acquis communautaire .
on a more general note , it is true that the socio-economic situation in these two countries is far better than in other candidate countries .
however , they have received technical assistance and financial aid from the european union in order to transpose the acquis communautaire .
until 1999 , this technical assistance and financial aid was provided under the fourth financial protocols ( b7-4011 ) .
both countries also qualify for financial aid under the meda programme ( b7-4012 ) .
during the first and second readings of the 2000 budget , the european parliament stressed that the new ' pre-accession ' heading ( b7-0 ) , proposed by the commission in the preliminary draft budget , should not be limited to the candidate countries of central and eastern europe and should also be extended to malta and cyprus .
however , because of the council ' s refusal to negotiate a review of the ceiling set for heading 7 ( pre-accession ) in the financial perspectives , the european parliament agreed , by way of exception , and i stress that it was by way of exception , that this expenditure should be financed under heading 4 ( external action ) of the financial perspectives for the year 2000 .
the package will grant around euro 15 million in total for the two countries in the current year .
the union should use every means at its disposal to guard against counterfeiting .
the purpose of the framework decision is to supplement the provisions of the international convention for the suppression of counterfeiting currency of 20 april 1929 and to facilitate its application by the member states .
these offences must be punishable even if they relate to banknotes and coins denominated in euros but not yet issued and if they are committed before 1 january 2002 .
it would also appear to be in the union ' s interest for all member states to help protect the euro , especially sweden , denmark , the united kingdom and greece , which will not be introducing the euro on 1 january 2002 .
nor , in the light of the international convention of 20 april 1929 , can there be any confusion as to which country should deal with any criminal cases .
when the notes and coins come into circulation after 1 january 2002 , everything possible must be done to ensure maximum confidence in the euro .
di pietro report ( a5-0019 / 2000 ) madam president , as the representative of the pensioners ' party , there have been many occasions on which i have stated , at the committee stage , that the european union must intervene in regulating the lives of the elderly , and in the measures and rules on pensions , as is already the case , in coordination .
i worked in africa 30 years ago , and it was poor and underdeveloped but the problems are now more catastrophic .
two million people died of aids in africa last year , approximately 200 000 died in wars .
there is a highly revealing passage on this point in the work programme for the year 2000 attached to the strategic guidelines .
i think there are three reasons for this : 1 ) in their endeavour to transcend the nation states , the european institutions have lost touch with the people and , in losing touch with the people , they have become putty in the hands of foreign interests ; 2 ) having lost touch with the people , the men and women working in these institutions have started to become used to reasoning not as the sole champions of the people , but as international officials in charge of regulating a global system ; 3 ) integration may afford economies of scale and productivity gains ; but it also causes far more to be lost because , when it breaks nations , it breaks subtle expressions of solidarity and , with them , the willingness to present a united front . . ( fr ) i share the overriding sense of deep and keen dissatisfaction expressed during the debate .
as for the future , given that the commission has shown itself incapable of taking action against fascism in austria , i am convinced that blocking measures to liberalise the single market is the only way of administering a salutary electric shock treatment to the heart of all the countries in the union . - ( it ) on behalf of the italian communists , i would like to express great dissatisfaction at the contents of the document , which was expected to define the strategic guidelines for europe up until the year 2005 .
employment : for many years now , the connection between economic growth and an increase in employment has not been borne out by reality , and yet , despite the fact that it has been proved to be useless , the same recipe is being put forward again as a solution to the acute problem of unemployment .
europe ' s role : we first need to emphasise that europe rejects war as an instrument for resolving international conflict : only then can we talk of the ' military ' role of the union .
we are also in the president ' s debt for adopting an appropriate stance in relation to what is going on the home political front in austria .
the president has recently set out his position vis-a-vis austria in connection with the safeguarding of eu fundamental values .
enlargement appears to be an end in itself , but unless decisions are made on a social policy , a common value and an institution to strengthen the cohesion and democratisation of the union , the europe bequeathed to us at the end of mr prodi ' s presidency may well be a simple common market area within the context of generalised globalisation , rather than the community of destiny which we hope for .
the nature of the eu has not changed .
since the beginning it has served the interests of a few dozen large financial and industrial groups and their pressure groups .
but the prodi commission now wants to transform the eu so that it can apply for joint global governance with the united states , which it also sees as its future competitor and rival .
we shall vote against these objectives , because we are fighting against this policy both in parliament and on the streets .
secondly , in terms of the definition of priorities for the next five years , we consider that the main question to be considered by the commission is its role in interinstitutional relations within the eu which neither the programme nor the motion mention .
the mechanisms used in the cooperation between the governments of the member states must therefore be reinforced and made more coherent , more transparent and more democratic .
corrie report ( a5-0032 / 2000 ) madam president , the work of the acp-eu joint assembly was coloured in 1999 by growing concern about the sustainability of the cooperation models derived from the lome conventions .
as paul-marie couteaux rightly said in his intervention yesterday and in his proposed amendments , one wonders exactly what political coherence this blank cheque represents .
it is most worrying , especially as a similar agreement with mexico appears to be taking shape .
the report comes just after agreement has been reached on the renewal of the existing lome convention , which expires at the end of this month .
the new agreement provides for a development budget of eur 13.5 billion over the next seven years .
civil society must be involved in the planning and implementation of these projects .
the decision to include a clause obliging acp countries to take back illegal immigrants entering europe is worrying and will have to be implemented with extreme sensitivity .
over 95 % of all hiv infected individuals live in the developing countries and sub-saharan africa is the worst affected region in the world .
the aids problem in africa is not only a private or public health issue but a development one .
the effects of the aids pandemic mean that any progress in development matters in the sub-saharan region is being neutralised or reversed .
it is incumbent on the european union and the united nations to address what is a social and fatal problem in a comprehensive and strategic manner .
on a separate matter altogether , i would like to support cuba ' s membership as an acp country within the framework of the new lome convention which will shortly be agreed between the european union and african , caribbean and pacific countries .
however , on this occasion , the european union will be insisting on introducing political criteria into the lome convention accord .
now , more than 30 years after the inauguration of an unprecedented partnership between north and south , the tool which has proven its worth and served its time needs to be adapted in order to meet new challenges .
which is why the new 20-year agreement due to be signed in fiji on 31 may represents more than the simple renewal of the conventions regulating relations between europe and the acp .
the joint assembly also represents the tribunal before which the countries of europe and the developing countries defend their common interests .
after the debacle in seattle , our duty from now on is to adopt a concerted position and ensure that the rules of world trade develop and are used to fight poverty .
apart from reducing the volume of exports from these countries to the community market , what we term ' development aid ' to the acp has fallen constantly , from 70 % of total european union aid in 1986 to 30 % in 1998 .
the european union prefers to send its funds to eastern europe , the former ussr and asia , where there is greater opportunity for profit .
whether through the minimum wage in manchester or debt relief in durban , labour ' s aim of poverty reduction remains the same .
for the best way to reduce world poverty is to help developing countries help themselves .
and the best way to help developing countries help themselves is to open up world markets to allow them to sell their products .
thus , whether through the new deal in newcastle or fair trade in freetown , labour ' s aim of opportunity for all remains the same .
swoboda report ( a5-0031 / 2000 ) . ( el ) the eu ' s stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia , in the form of a joint agreement as established by article 310 of the eu treaty , can contribute to the stabilisation and development of that balkan republic .
there are different types of agreements or relations or lack of relations - going even as far as the embargo on yugoslavia - which result in a fragmented and ineffectual approach .
symbolic because it reflects well on the fifteen ' s project to see the birth of a policy which is common to the five countries in the region ( bosnia-herzegovina , croatia , federal republic of yugoslavia , fyrom and albania ) and which would make economic and political stability a pressing and urgent requirement .
the community construction only makes sense if it creates positive discriminations alone , and the uen group hopes that this signal to fyrom and specific action in its wake will help us make a sustainable contribution to the development and peaceful coexistence of the nation states in this fully-paid up part of europe .
through the agreement , the european parliament will automatically be sent the relevant material in connection with decisions made in accordance with the rules under article 251 of the treaty .
it has economic implications and an impact on employment and social cohesion , but it also provides major new opportunities when anticipated , prepared for and managed .
the acceleration of technological progress and the increasing competitive pressure of globalising markets are pushing companies to rapidly adapt their production and company structures .
the commission is acutely aware of this situation and of the need for people to feel basic security in difficult times of change .
we have built a wide range of instruments which meet these concerns in recent years in the european union .
we have set minimum requirements at european level , which all member states and all companies must observe when contemplating job losses , especially when they are massive , or preparing other decisions likely to affect workers .
i wish to recall that it is , in principle , up to national courts to deal with possible violations of these rules , if and when they are brought before them by national representatives .
however , even when existing rules or arrangements are formally respected this does not mean that management ' s attitude is socially irreprehensible .
in a world characterised by permanent change and in the context of high levels of unemployment , the rules in force seem to us to be outdated as they do not allow or promote the key ideas behind our employment strategy and our approach to change , anticipation , risk prevention and employability .
i hope that this debate contributes to reminding member states of the importance and urgent nature of this initiative .
the forthcoming french presidency also seems willing to give this dossier the high priority it deserves .
the commission sincerely hopes that parliament and the council quickly finalise this important dossier which constitutes , in our view , the most effective answer to the concerns raised by cases such as the ones which brought us here today .
as for the transnational level of employee involvement there is some indication that at least in one case the companies may have breached transnational information and consultation agreements which they had concluded with their european workforce .
the commission will contact the relevant national authorities to check this .
nevertheless , as my colleague , commissioner diamantopoulou has already underlined on other occasions , when deciding whether or not to revise the directive immediately , different considerations must be taken into account .
secondly , an immediate revision would make things much more complicated as regards progress in respect of the other pending dossiers in this field like european company statutes and the national information and consultation proposal .
the successful outcome of these other dossiers could greatly facilitate the subsequent revision of the ewc directive and even provide some degree of a solution to the problems identified above .
that is why we tend to consider that it might be more appropriate in this context to proceed with the revision of the european works council directive only after the conclusion of those two dossiers and following a more complete evaluation of the application of the directive .
as for the enforcement of the links between competition policy and social policy , let me remind you that there is a provision in the merger regulation which enables workers ' representatives to be heard by the commission in the framework of the relevant procedure .
i know we will be coming back to these issues again in the future to see how we can best make sure our policies are adapted and reformed to underpin economic and social progress in europe .
mr gorostiaga atxalandabaso , i understand you have a point of order .
mr president , the problem is one of public honour in this parliament , it is not a personal statement .
the subject in question is of great political and social importance .
free enterprise , free movement and free competition are essential pillars of the political and economic structure of the european union .
company restructuring is part of the principle of free determination of investments , and must therefore be defended .
in italy , commissioner liikanen , goodyear is not carrying out restructuring but closing a plant whose production covers 14 % of the market and which goodyear itself defined as , ' having the most highly-skilled workforce of all its plants ' , a plant which was opened with a total of eur 85 million of european capital .
commissioner liikanen , we expect an authoritative intervention .
the goodyear case is not localised and limited to the industry in question : it concerns a thousand families who have lost their jobs overnight , and are left without income or prospects for the future .
an example is the directive on the information and consultation of workers which you mentioned , that has been awaiting a solution for years and upon which the european parliament gave its opinion very clearly in april last year .
i believe that the european union and the commission must ask the council and the member states to consider the procedures for implementing these directives in the different states as well .
this makes it possible for companies to relocate , even within the european union , from one country to another where directives are less strictly applied , companies have greater benefits and workers are less well protected .
all this confirms our conviction that something like sanctions , which we reiterated were very important when we gave our opinion on the information and consultation directive last year , can on no account be abandoned .
it appears that goodyear in italy received italian and european subsidies to the tune of approximately eur 40 million .
this is why the liberal group will vote against paragraph 8 and the second section of paragraph 9 .
we are all aware of the fact that restructuring , as we know it today , contradicts the stated objectives of the european union on employment and social and territorial cohesion on all counts .
first , draft a very accurate report on the implementation of the collective redundancies and european works council directives and use all the pressure , warnings and sanctions needed in order to ensure that they are applied to the letter .
we must strengthen our legislation in order to close these loopholes ; we must reform it and guarantee workers new rights , especially the right to contest the economic justification for redundancies .
yet the current situation in europe provides us with clear examples of how jobs are being destroyed , particularly , and most seriously , by companies which are making huge profits .
yet again , workers are likely to lose their jobs .
this time , i am referring to the workers of the company goodyear in cisterna di latina .
as has already been pointed out , in one month ' s time , 600 people and as many families could be deprived of their sole source of income .
the european commission and the council must , at last , assume all the necessary responsibilities , both with regard to the adoption of a common position on the information and consultation of workers and with regard to community and national aid , which must only be granted to companies who undertake to establish long-term agreements to protect jobs .
today , we ask the commission to start by protecting the workers at goodyear in cisterna , and therefore to put as much pressure as possible on the company for it to come to an agreement as soon as possible , thereby ensuring the continued existence and operation of the cisterna plant .
the various recent announcements referred to by previous speakers , be they by michelin or goodyear , are symptomatic in this respect .
mr president , last month in the uk , in a region that neighbours mine , the michelin group announced significant redundancies at its stoke-on-trent plant due to company restructuring and increasing global competitiveness in the world market for tyres .
we need multinational companies to base their businesses within our continent .
we meps speak often about smes and have now come up with a unique way of creating them .
but maybe next time , we ought to discuss corus , the merger which has now taken place between our nederlandse hoogovens and british steel .
the government is talking to trade union and goodyear delegates in italy as well , in an endeavour to find a solution to the closure policy unilaterally adopted by the north american multinational in cisterna di latina , an area of central italy which has already been affected by other restructuring operations .
the goodyear workers are putting up a magnificent fight , in the knowledge that they are defending not only their own interests but the interests of the goodyear workers in the different european countries as well , and there are many of them : france , germany , the united kingdom , poland , luxembourg and slovenia .
the european union , in all of its aspects , must use all of its powers to resolve this and other disputes .
he acknowledged that 15 million europeans are currently looking for work and that unemployment is the main source of poverty and social exclusion .
the new company has announced its intention to initiate a restructuring plan with the aim of making savings .
in my region of the uk in particular the employment consequences of this merger have been severe as a result of abb-alsthom having announced that it was cutting 270 jobs in britain with 95 jobs being lost in stafford and 112 in rugby .
it is especially important in the case of large international companies where decisions are taken far from the employee .
point 17 of the community charter of fundamental social rights of workers stresses the need for consultation , adding that this shall apply especially in companies having establishments in two or more member states .
eu legislation on this issue could not be clearer .
the commission would do well in this sort of situation to make its decisions not simply on the basis of whether a merger will distort competition but also on the basis of the social and economic consequences .
what we also need urgently is an impact assessment study on the effect of merger in every situation .
this is the only way of respecting article 127 of the treaty .
i welcome the statement made by commissioner liikanen , but i also look for the support of this parliament to ensure that the legislation which we have passed on workers ' rights is implemented rigorously and to ensure that impact assessments on the workforce for proposed mergers are undertaken as a matter of course .
these events , which are unfortunately overshadowing the political decisions in this area , confirm without doubt that the development of the tampere agreements and title iv of the ec treaty must be an urgent priority .
today ' s problems cannot be solved in five years .
the legislation of the member states must be brought into line with the agreements of the governments in tampere , as paragraph 7 of the motion states .
this is a very important social debate in the creation of a european area in which the right to freedom , security and justice will be recognised in the future charter of fundamental rights .
the proof of this lies in the fact that the groups in this house have reacted and tabled several motions for resolutions .
we do not want africa to become our cross , in fact quite the contrary .
secondly we are conducting a programme of social integration .
mr president , last week , in the andalusian town of el ejido , we saw scenes which were inappropriate to the european union in the year 2000 .
this was acknowledged by the commission president , romano prodi , on 9 february when he confirmed that what had occurred in el ejido went against the very principles of the european union .
however , instead of producing these events which we are condemning , migration must generate social , cultural and economic enrichment .
in particular , local authorities and mayors have a direct responsibility to prevent any demonstration of racism or xenophobia , especially when this involves violent and aggressive acts against people and their property .
these authorities must also help to achieve difficult agreements between the parties involved and must not hinder these , as has happened with the mayor in question .
finally , as our nobel prize winner , jose saramago , has said , we are all in each other and as jesus christ said , although saramago disagreed with this , we should not just love one another , more importantly , we should respect one another .
all these factors have unfortunately been accumulating over time and are now allowing those who are cruel , intolerant , racist and destructive , of which all our countries have some examples , but thankfully a minority , to light the fuse of xenophobia .
mr president , this resolution expresses solidarity with the democratic forces in spain fighting for human rights .
what happened at el ejido is the result of inadmissible racist and xenophobic practices in europe today .
what happened in spain could happen in any country in the union if we are not careful .
i support this proposal for a resolution , especially the points which refer to the application of article 13 of the amsterdam treaty , and point 11 of this resolution establishing a link between the structural funds allocated and the fight against exclusion .
it would be to our credit were the european parliament to roundly condemn these events and support all proposals tabled in order to ensure that the rights of immigrants in spain and throughout the union are respected .
finally , and i think this is important : why not have the honesty today to relay what was disclosed in a recent un study explaining that , if spain wishes to preserve its work , retirement and pension potential , it is no good just giving 30 000 immigrants a year legal status ; it needs to be prepared to accept 12 million immigrants between now and the year 2050 ?
we must insist today as a matter of urgency on the right to education and the duty to remember , to recall the dates in history when our countries teetered on the brink of horror .
mr president , since the signature of the treaty of amsterdam , the european union has had responsibility for combating racism and xenophobia .
outside the community arena , some governments are making efforts to renew their immigration policies .
this is occurring in my country , despite the government , the party in power being the only one which does not like the new law on aliens .
the objective of combating racism and xenophobia , explained in the treaties , should be the objective of all european institutions and politicians .
president prodi and commissioner diamantopoulou have both issued separate statements .
of course progress has been made in recent years but we still have to work together towards a climate of tolerance in which racism and xenophobia are regarded as completely beyond the pale , completely unacceptable , while at the same time we deal very robustly with incidents such as the ones we are discussing this afternoon .
the european union has already laid the basis for community legislation on combating discrimination on the grounds of race .
the insertion of article 13 , which was referred to during the debate , dealing with non-discrimination in the treaty establishing the european community , is one of the most significant changes of the last revision of the treaties .
since the treaty of amsterdam came into force the commission has presented a package of proposals for the implementation of article 13 including , in particular , a proposal for a directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic origin .
the european council also considered it important to step up the prevention of illegal immigration .
those rights are , by definition , universal .
the el ejido incidents were shocking , as several members have said in their speeches .
but trying to take something positive from them , i hope they will spur us on to translate our aspirations about tolerance , fairness and freedom into real and effective policies that will help to transform the lives of all those families and individuals in the european union who cry out for our understanding and our help and who deserve it , not at some indefinite moment in the future , but here today .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 6 p.m .
the other reason is that this text does not , unfortunately , go very far .
i also doubt that any of you can believe that milosevic could resist for very long if the international community eventually resolved the question of the final status of kosovo .
finally , i do not think that any of you believe that the present status quo will bring minimum stability and hence minimum development to kosovo .
they declared that this war was needed to uphold human rights .
but the violations of human rights go further , and supporters of the milosevic regime were not the only ones to trample human rights underfoot ; sadly , those whom nato set out to defend are guilty of the same .
the kpc , the kosovo protection corps , must be investigated following suspicions that some members are involved in criminal activity , and appropriate steps must be taken .
if the representatives of the council had sons , brothers or fathers in the prisons in serbia then i feel there would be a more rapid response .
the albanian doctor , flora brovina , who was sentenced in nis on 13 january , is now in a prison hospital and is extremely ill .
in the joint resolution , we ask the council and the member states to double their efforts to ensure respect for minority groups and to work towards the creation of democratic structures , giving a voice to all those forces which still believe in peaceful coexistence .
what she has said here is completely justified .
needless to say , the situation in mitrovica is very dangerous and we all know why .
the people are holding demonstrations , they are sending us e-mails .
the case of flora brovina is just one of many .
the fact that they are locked up in serbia also fuels the unrest and violence in kosovo .
as for serbia and the thousands of abducted albanians who continue to languish in prisons in yugoslavia , i would like to make the following point quite plain : it is absolutely scandalous that the council is beginning to lift sanctions against rump yugoslavia , that those on the left of this house are demanding that more sanctions be lifted , yet not one of these motions states that this is inextricably linked by way of a condition with the release of political prisoners in serbia , including kosovan albanians .
mr president , in the present joint draft resolution , paragraph 10 urges the council and member states - rightly so - to double their efforts so as to make the necessary manpower and resources available for the un police units .
this request is fully in line with the vision held by the special representative of the un in kosovo , mr bernard kouchner .
moreover , half of this group is from the united states and germany .
paris is leaving its fellow-countryman completely in the cold with a handful of policemen , not more than 37 , in the crisis region .
for this hardly honourable position , mr kouchner blames none other than the minister for home affairs , mr chevenement .
so i think that we urgently need to get to the point where we can pass a general political resolution in which we can get to the heart of the matter , especially the worrying things which we are discussing , particularly logistics support for the information services by the united states and great britain , generalised corruption in the regime linked to multinational oil companies and numerous other extremely ' spicy ' matters which we need to go into .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the european parliament has rightly led the way in promoting human rights in the european union .
clearly , governments are often more sensitive to the interests of realpolitik and to commercial , geostrategic or economic interests .
yet the latter cannot exist without free and unrestricted social communication which itself cannot exist when journalists are persecuted , detained , threatened or put under pressure .
human rights are being violated consistently and have been for a long period of time , not only by unita , but also by the government itself .
for example , i have today received information directly from rafael marques , whose situation we are discussing , according to which two correspondents from portuguese television have been imprisoned in angola .
the problem considered by the motion is a major one but , as has already been touched upon , could be regarded as minor in light of the even greater problem of the general situation in angola which is experiencing a terrible humanitarian disaster .
the international community and the european union must spell this out very clearly .
these journalists are professionals who are trying to inform the public in their country and denounce the corruption existing in this regime , for which they are being persecuted .
the cause of these journalists is therefore one which we must embrace , although bearing in mind that the problem goes much wider and much deeper and is much more terrible .
the people of angola deserve better .
we would , at the same time , like to insist on other things .
the so-called civilised world should hang its head in shame .
mr president , the facts are well-known .
on 24 december , the angolan court sentenced a correspondent of the portuguese paper , expresso , to a year ' s imprisonment and a fine of usd 20 000 .
another journalist was threatened with his life during a parliamentary debate last month by a member of parliament of the mpla government party .
these are only two examples of a trend in angola to silence any government critics .
there is indeed a great deal of hypocrisy regarding angola .
on the basis of a report , the human rights organisation global witness concluded that the western world is turning a blind eye to the activities of dos santos because it is fishing for lucrative oil contracts .
native americans in the us - dineh mr president , the american leaders do not seem to have learnt a great deal from the criticism of how they treated the indians and other indigenous peoples .
once again , the individuality , dignity and health of a people are being sacrificed to the higher economic interest .
once again , we are losing a piece of our planet ' s cultural and ecological heritage , despite the many treaties and resolutions on human rights , on the protection of minorities , rights of indigenous peoples , etc . , which have already been ratified .
it is of key importance that the american authorities provide greater clarity regarding the way in which they are trying to offer these families a dignified alternative in keeping with a traditional way of life .
it is also important that a debate is held where the long-term effects of mining in this region are discussed and weighed up in economic , ecological and social terms .
mr president , as mr van hecke rightly pointed out , this is about human rights and about the rights of indigenous peoples , and parliament must speak up , especially vis-a-vis good friends , and the united states is a good friend .
it is important to point this out .
the area where the people in question are now being taken - and this is also the reason for this resolution - is a polluted area which is economically not suitable .
we need to continue to stand up for these rights , especially in our own member states and societies , but also elsewhere .
the area in arizona which is to be the new land for the dineh indians was hit in 1979 by the worst nuclear disaster in us history .
the fight of these indians is being backed by more than 250 ngos and , thanks to the efforts of the belgian ' mother earth ' organisation , we are being kept informed of this situation .
today , the dineh indians are facing their final fight for their right to land , for their right to dignity and , above all , for their right to their way of life .
the dineh people belong to the north-american navajo indians .
this relocation is , of course , unacceptable because human rights are being violated in economic , social and cultural terms .
the relocation act was pushed through in congress by a group representing the coal mining industry .
the united states administration , the coal industry and all of us need to acquit ourselves of our responsibility and provide a sound alternative : either the soil is cleaned or the dineh indians are allocated a proper place where provision is made for all kinds of support , be it in the psychological , social , cultural or budgetary field .
we would ask the council and the commission for clear and prompt action and a political initiative which does not overlook the issue of human rights .
we insist that these violations of human rights are investigated .
the fate of andrey babitsky , the correspondent in grozny of radio liberty , who was arrested by russian troops , is a dramatic example of russian policy .
it contravenes article 3 of the geneva convention of 1949 and is a flagrant violation of the freedom of the press .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the tragic case of the courageous russian journalist andrey babitsky illustrates once again the depth of the democratic crisis into which russia has sunk .
without any hesitation , the russian minister for internal affairs , vladimir rushailo , earlier this week confirmed the answer to this revealing question .
the victim of this exchange is said to be the 35-year-old war correspondent of radio free europe / radio liberty , andrey babitsky .
cambodia mr president , commissioner , it is because of my experience in the balkans , when i was there on duty , that i call on you today to support the efforts of the secretary-general of the united nations to bring those responsible for the genocide in cambodia to trial before an independent court under the aegis of the united nations .
if we want to help the cambodians with the task of reconciliation on which they have embarked , we need to try and sentence those responsible at the highest level and thus exonerate the simple underlings and all those who were willingly or forcibly dragged along behind them .
in march of last year , a member of sam rengie ' s party was killed by a group of men in military uniform in the province of kandal .
mr president , there is a new doctrine taking shape in international law , according to which no country can treat its citizens or the people living within its territory in any way it likes , and the sovereignty of the state can no longer prevent outside intervention when there are gross violations of human rights , not even when the government is legally or even democratically elected .
at the same time , the struggle against impunity is under threat .
first of all , on kosovo , the commission fully shares the concerns expressed in these draft resolutions as regards general policy towards kosovo , as regards the continuing ethnic violence and as regards the prisoners in serb jails .
our efforts in kosovo , as elsewhere in the wider region , are directed at short and medium-term recovery and long-term stabilisation .
our assistance programmes in the fields of democratisation and human rights should continue to build confidence in general and , in particular , to try to build confidence between the various communities .
the plight of kosovar albanians who have been missing since the end of the war is particularly distressing .
we call on everyone , within and outside kosovo , to support these common aims , to support unmik and kfor in their efforts to achieve them .
we fully support the work of the un through unua , given its specific responsibility to monitor the human rights situation in angola .
an essential element will be support for democracy and human rights , including specific initiatives to strengthen democratic institutions and civil society .
the european union has condemned the use of anti-personnel landmines and we are supporting de-mining operations through an international ngo .
on the question of the indigenous peoples in the us , i am sure that the resolution which was primarily addressed to the us authorities will have been noted by them .
the commission delegation in moscow participated in a european union troika demarche on the eleventh of this month .
in the meantime , the conclusions of the general affairs council earlier this week have confirmed the message which i have given today .
the european union underlined its full support for the efforts of the united nations on the need for a tribunal to prosecute former khmer rouge leaders .
the commission will continue to raise issues regarding the rule of law , democratic principles and human rights with cambodian authorities through the ec-cambodia cooperation agreement which entered into force on 1 november last year .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 6.00 p.m .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the tisza and danube rivers are currently experiencing an environmental disaster on a huge scale .
this disaster has raised a number of important issues which concern us as a european union .
after all , this is a candidate country we are talking about , and this disaster is in addition to the existing concern about whether all candidate countries will comply with the eu environmental rules in time .
the delta of the danube is in danger .
as in spain in april 1998 , as in brittany and the vendee since last december , once again an exceptional natural site is under serious threat .
the european parliament is constantly drawing attention in its resolutions to this sort of danger , which threatens our environment , upsets our ecosystem and again weakens our populations .
this new disaster raises the problem of the integration of the environmental acquis communautaire in candidate countries .
the authorities in these counties , which are still very frail from an environmental point of view , need to overcome numerous obstacles .
the efforts already being made need to be stepped up .
mr president , when the donana disaster occurred , the non-governmental organisation , the world wide fund for nature , gave us a report on the number of reservoirs of this type in europe .
mr president , the commission ' s white paper on environmental liability , which was put forward several days ago - on 9 february to be precise - cites the tanker accident that contaminated and poisoned the french coast as the most recent incident in the series of environmental disasters caused by human beings .
in addition , i believe it is imperative that we draft and implement a directive on comprehensive environmental liability within the european union with all speed .
but early reports suggest that the poisoning of the lepos , tisza , somes and danube rivers is a very serious environmental tragedy .
as with all such disasters it is the long-term consequences that are the most pernicious .
that is certainly the view of my colleague , commissioner wallstrom , who i know would have wished to respond to this resolution in person today .
the reason she cannot do so is because , as some honourable members have pointed out , she is in hungary and romania to see for herself the extent of the damage and how best we can help the hungarian and romanian authorities to tackle the crisis .
the polluter-pays principle is a cornerstone of european union environmental policy .
it is mirrored in the international convention for the protection and sustainable use of the danube river and it should be applied in this case .
the union has mobilised some eur 20 million over the past seven years to support protection of the danube river basin .
the incident reinforces the case for a strengthening of european civil protection , along the lines suggested by president prodi in his recent speech and as suggested by one or two members today .
the debate is closed .
however , the measures set out in this resolution are derisory in terms of combating the policy of the major industrial groups which are shedding jobs and exacerbating unemployment .
moreover , it is all just words , because the socialist governments , which are now in a majority in europe , are just as incapable of taking action to prevent redundancies as right-wing governments .
the real problem is not finding a legal way of slightly complicating redundancy procedures , but banning them .
the swedish christian democrats would emphasise the value of the european union ' s and the european parliament ' s concentrating on their basic tasks and not undermining the value of their actions in these areas by also acting in areas outside their jurisdiction .
it would be appropriate , therefore , to begin by summarising the impact of tourism on the lives of union citizens and the desirability , in both economic and social terms , of promoting the european tourist industry .
it is an obvious truth , and one that is measurable by other economic and social indicators , that thanks to tourism , many mediterranean regions have undergone a radical change for the better in their economic and social system and the way of life of their inhabitants , and achieved a drastic reduction in the numbers emigrating .
this reminds us that tourism cannot be regarded as the poor countries ' petroleum industry , because it requires huge investment in structures , infrastructures , entrepreneurship , professional expertise , social services and training ; that the tourist industry is essential for the equilibrium of many regions as it provides a direct source of employment and a market for all local productive activities : agriculture , small firms in the industrial and craft sector , transport , services , retail sector , training , etc ; that the development of the community ' s tourist industry is closely linked to its sustainability with regard to the community objectives ; that the varied geography and historical , cultural and environmental heritage must be protected and exploited .
those figures are incomparably higher for some countries .
you see , the world tourism market is influenced every day and directly by the liberalisation of transport , its reduced cost , and competition from new centres of tourism outside europe .
furthermore , 90 % of businesses active in tourism are small or medium-sized , the very enterprises which form the living cells of our social and economic tissue , which are called upon to tackle the new obstacles and respond positively to the challenges of this global development .
the introduction of these new technologies is not a threat , but a new opportunity for our tourism because it offers the potential to provide new and innovative tourism products and services , which our tourism needs for an ever-lengthening tourism season , so that it can attract new customers and offer new and alternative forms of tourism .
the committee on women ' s rights paid particular attention to the issue of education , because according to official figures women account for 53 % of those engaged in tourism services , and in parallel , they form a majority among the working people most easily affected by social and economic change .
we must not forget that people working in tourism , especially women , encounter particular problems such as seasonal work , the need to renew contracts from one year to the next , social protection , lack of interest in continuing education , and reduced possibilities for development .
this does not follow automatically : often in the past a great deal of wealth has been accumulated thanks to the promotion of the tourist industry , without this being matched by an increase in employment .
we fully endorse the community measures which were recommended in the commission communication : advantageous taxation , that is , fiscal measures that offer conditions that are truly competitive in this market to the production sector - 95 % of which , i would point out , is made up of small and medium-sized businesses , which is equivalent to 2 million small and medium-sized businesses in the european tourism sector ; it awards special attention to vocational qualifications in the european union , and therefore to investing in training ; finally , it undertakes to make the job market transparent .
finally , we consider that tourism can , in addition to being a growth factor , be a factor for democracy , and in this regard we are asking the commission for a clear , conscious commitment .
the first is the inclusion of a legal base in the treaty .
this is something i favour , but currently as part of a minority in my own group .
the resolution contains many excellent ideas for the promotion of different types of tourism and for its increasing professionalism .
at the same time the commission is currently concerned about confining itself to core tasks .
mr president , i too believe that tourism has a very important role to play , not just in our european regions , but throughout the world , because it is a great asset when it comes to economic and social development .
but it is also a very vulnerable sector , as we recently saw with the oil slick .
but these regions need to take real account of positive and negative experiences in other tourist sectors .
i know that action is being taken against this so-called tourism elsewhere , but we must remember the european union ' s responsibility at this level .
finally , i should like to refer to the tourism which gives citizens contact with the outside world and democracy .
and eu funds have also made a considerable contribution to this in the past .
within these regions , a huge range of problems have their part to play .
as has already been said in this debate , three million potential new jobs within the next ten years is something well worth going for .
europe can no longer refuse to give the recognition - both political and in terms of policy-making - that the fastest growing sector of its economy deserves because of its economic and social position .
the importance to the economy of tourism and its growth potential is obviously one .
tourism contributes to regional development - in rural areas that are maybe trying to diversify - and tourism contributes to urban areas that aim to raise the profile of their own cultural heritage .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , today we are addressing a very important sector that directly involves over 10 million jobs in the european union and helps the more or less disadvantaged , island and remote areas to stand on their own feet .
and of course , tourism creates more jobs and contributes to the stimulation of employment , especially among society ' s more sensitive sections : women and young people .
in our view , the axes which could create a basis for its support are : the addition of material capital for tourism in the new review which will also constitute a legal base for the sector , the framing of a community tourism policy to support the sector without disturbing the operation of the tourism market , coordination of the tourism policy with other , parallel community policies which affect it directly or indirectly , a study of the sector , and the adoption of medium and long-term measures to enhance the competitiveness of tourism as a product .
mr president , commissioner , the new attitude adopted recently by the commission on this important economic activity is striking to those of us who , in recent years , have kept an eye on tourism and its place in the community framework .
tourism is a social , economic and cultural phenomenon which affects most european citizens , either as the recipients or the providers of a wide variety of services .
moreover , europe is still the main destination for tourists from third countries , even though it faces increasingly stiff competition and an increasingly diversified and attractive range of products .
since the treaties contain no specific legal basis for a real community tourism policy , the european union must help to improve and encourage cooperation in this sector , in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity , in order to take practical advantage of the potential which tourism offers in terms of employment .
vocational training and a mobile workforce are important tools in the strategy to fight unemployment in europe especially , as far as tourist service providers are concerned , in meeting multicultural demands and ensuring that services are tailored to customers .
it is therefore even more urgent that we acquire and disseminate managerial and technological skills in order to promote new means of production and a supply of tourism which reflects market developments as closely as possible .
as the report notes , the adoption by the member states of tax incentives for smes in order to reduce labour costs would be an excellent way of promoting growth in employment in labour-intensive sectors and , consequently , in the tourism sector .
the income and employment generated by tourism help enormously in reducing imbalances and encouraging their economies to converge with the average rate of growth in the community .
in addition , tourism can promote a certain cultural and economic rapprochement , insofar as it makes us more aware of other european cultures and thus helps respect for european ways of life to develop .
bearing in mind the failed efforts of the last decade , as highlighted by mr koch , does commissioner liikanen believe that he can do something during his term of office to ensure that the community dimension of tourism becomes a proper policy , given the importance that all the previous speakers have given to tourism in terms of employment ?
senior citizens are always on holiday , all year round , from 1 january through to 31 december because they do not work and do not have just one month off during the year .
on the other hand , we are aware that in practically all developed countries there is a lack of manpower in the tourism sector , which cannot be completely overcome , even in times of high unemployment .
in 1998 alone , total income from tourism and leisure activities was 450 billion schilling .
the dialogue with the two sides of industry , as well as with local authorities , must be stepped up .
i am glad to see that the commission and parliament are converging towards the same goal in this area .
an essential condition in order to make good progress in the work in this respect is that the cooperation with member states and the industry and with other partners be as fruitful as possible .
coordination of community tourism activities with other important issues such as regional policies , transport , employment , environment , culture and competition must strongly involve member states and the tourism industry itself .
quality products in order to improve competitiveness , sustainability in order to protect resources and innovation in particular through the use of information technologies .
direct business to consumer contact will supplement , and sometimes also reduce , the currently , nearly exclusive business to business relationship .
the implementation of the directive on statistics aims at improving the knowledge of market structures and trends in european tourism and its industry .
a report on the work to be undertaken , together with the member states and the tourism industry should be available in about two years from now .
mr medina ortega asked me some very concrete questions .
as regards the role of tourism policy in the communities concerned , we must understand that many policy sectors have a huge impact on the framework on tourism .
i have been working now in all industrial and service sectors , but when you look at the organisational structure in tourism it is almost impossible .
it is very difficult for a commissioner to try to work in an area where there are dozens of different organisations whose representativeness needs to be ascertained every time .
to strengthen the role of tourism in europe , the organisations should do what has happened in most economic sectors : seek better focus , better coordination and concentrated activities .
then we could have a solid dialogue in our everyday work .
tourism is also in the list of subjects which do not figure as new areas of competence for the eu .
the general agreement between both institutions in this field must not keep the commission from following the most pragmatic approach in achieving our common objectives .
the debate is closed .
adoption of the minutes of the previous sitting the minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed .
strasbourg , 17 february " .
mr president , i would like to request a correction to the minutes regarding the vote on amendment no 5 of the swoboda report .
in any event , the bureau will consider your suggestion . ( the minutes were approved ) vote mr president , we should like to request that the last sentence of amendment no 2 which reads : ' also calls on the member states to promote tourism for the elderly ' be incorporated into paragraph 25 , which deals specifically with social tourism , after : ' tourism for organised social groups ... ' .
i believe we need more decentralisation , more regionalism and less bureaucratic and centralist decision-making , especially in tourism policy .
mr president , the subsidiarity principle is one of the fundamental principles underlying cooperation in the european union .
it is of inestimable importance that people in europe , as well as in the rest of the world , should have the opportunity to experience each other ' s ways of ordering their lives and their societies .
the commission is firmly convinced of the need to prepare a new proposal on developing the postal sector .
the date set for completing the next phase , which the commission intends to keep to , is 1 january 2003 .
the proposal will take account of the studies and , in particular , the need to maintain a universal service , to develop efficient safeguards for consumers , to create a climate favourable to new jobs and to solve any problems relating to competition .
the role of liberalisation in modernising and improving postal services throughout the union with the help of new technologies will be examined in order to identify potential benefits for the industry as a whole .
the aim is to ensure that the internal market in postal services functions smoothly in the interests of consumers and businesses throughout the european union .
it is alleged in a circular that the price of postage has gone up by 59 per cent since liberalisation in 1993 .
that is true as long as account is taken of the 20 per cent of the total postal services market where , in practice , there is still a monopoly , that is where the state is the only player .
however , since commissioner monti is here , i would like him to take a message back to commissioner bolkestein telling him what the postal services directive was about .
these issues were fundamental in that report and they should be fundamental in any forthcoming directive .
the postal service is also the bus service .
the postal service is also the social service .
the postal service is also the doctor .
mr president , we are in favour of liberalising the union ' s postal services .
i have found a number of studies which were commissioned by the european commission at the time , and i am also coming across documents from post-europe which claims that these studies are inaccurate and that the basis on which these were carried out is incorrect .
the commission is committed to a universal postal service , as the european parliament has shown on several occasions , the postal service is actually , as some speakers have already mentioned , a key factor in social and territorial cohesion .
in this connection i should like to ask one of our swedish meps for an opinion of the study which has been carried out and which shows that in fact in the most remote areas of sweden the postal service was rather poor in terms of distribution .
the economic value of the postal service was recognised by the treaty of amsterdam and we consider that it goes far beyond the distribution of mail .
this resolution of 14 january 1999 required that , prior to undertaking any liberalisation of this key sector , involving 1.7 million employees after all , the commission should provide impact studies for this liberalisation .
we shall not accept a date for the liberalisation of all activities in the postal sector until the commission has offered us a guarantee that the universal service will be integrated into this directive and that the public postal service will be maintained in the states which consider this service essential to the citizen .
it is really not possible to see how the commission could by the end of 1998 , as stipulated by article 7 of the directive , have evaluated the effects of a text which came into force in february of the same year .
for its part , the european parliament , which had fought hard to ensure that the 1997 directive was balanced and respected the requirements of a universal public service , is rather satisfied to see that the compromise it obtained then is proving to be tenable .
today , following the 1997 compromise , member states can give public monopolies responsibility for the postal service involving mail and parcels whose distribution cost is less than five times the basic tariff , with a weight of less than 350 grammes .
it may be supposed , for example , as commissioner bolkestein gave us to understand during his hearing on 6 september last year , that the commission might propose reducing these limits to 50 grams and two and a half times the basic tariff .
in fact , article 86 of the ec treaty , formerly article 90 , stipulates that services of general economic interest are subject to the rules on competition only insofar as the application of such rules does not obstruct the performance of the particular tasks assigned to them .
mr president , we are currently in the first phase of transposition of directive 97 / 67 / ce on postal services and i am terribly afraid that a new phase of liberalisation might be reflected in a significant reduction in the public service offered .
as you know , in our country , each village has its own local post office or at least a post box , with a collection every day .
but the 200 grammes that make up the difference will be seized upon by many private and therefore profitable bodies .
so , once again , why not leave things as they are and allow the public service to fund itself and to guarantee the annual excess cost of its operations in the public interest , valued in france , by senator larcher , as it happens , at ff 8 billion ?
a small segment of our market has been taken over by private operators .
in rural areas , for many years , even before the irish free state came into existence , we sometimes had this service of a post office .
it should go hand in hand with our postal services in rural areas .
the scottish parliament too recently had a debate with particular reference to the role which post offices , especially in rural areas , play in service provision and the sustainability of rural communities .
post office outlets in scotland , as we have heard , handle much more than just mail delivery .
if a rural post office closes , usually with the only local shop attached , then a major threat to community sustainability and to social inclusion can result .
we know that until the year 2002 it will not be possible to fill some 1.2 million jobs in the field of electronic commerce because we do not have the skilled workers needed for this market .
of course the existing rural post offices also have a strategic advantage , because they are so densely distributed throughout europe .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , postal services , just like any european public service , contribute to the social cohesion of community territory under the terms of article 16 of the treaty of amsterdam .
the european parliament was confident of reconciling openness to competition with the obligation to provide a universal service in a manner which safeguards jobs .
by defining a sector reserved for public postal services , on the basis of weight and price limits , the postal service directive would clear the way for controlled liberalisation in phases .
the sudden reduction of these limits poses a threat to the balance between the obligation to provide a public service and economic viability for postal services .
mr president , i rise as other scottish members of this house , representatives of scotland , to protest against anything that lead to a decline in the quality of rural life in remote parts .
the postal service and the post office are a vital feature of life in rural communities throughout europe and not least in scotland .
the message that is coming very clearly from all sides of the house to the commission today is that the commission should tread warily .
the commission should not , for example , take a stepwise jump from 350 grammes to , as some have suggested , as low as 50 grammes .
mr president , the only way to guarantee a high-quality universal postal service is to keep this as a public service .
i think the consumer can decide for himself and define in advance what he needs .
what has happened over the past 200 years is that the time it takes for a letter to go from munich to brussels has increased fivefold .
so , yes to liberalisation , but let us also think about the limits to liberalisation , rapidly create reasonable conditions in europe and submit the appropriate study to the commission .
for the moment , it appears that , in the only country where liberalisation has taken place - sweden - there has been a 59 % increase in the price of postal services .
we do not know what will happen in each of the countries where liberalisation is going to take place .
it is likely that postal liberalisation will lead to greater cost differences between countries , which will no doubt have implications for competition , which will not only affect the cost of the postal service but also the establishment of installations .
i would therefore advise commissioner monti to deal with the issue of postal liberalisation , taking strict account of free competition , because i believe that this will probably become a very worrying issue in the future .
mr president , the postal service is not a normal service provider like a hairdresser ' s or a fitness centre .
the common market in postal services will be created on the terms of the marketeers .
in the hills and glens of scotland and the rural borders and central belt , on the beautiful but fragile islands of the hebrides , orkney and shetland , there is real concern at possibly losing this essential service .
it has been calculated that the actual cost of carrying a letter from edinburgh to the central highlands is about ten times that of carrying the same letter across london .
it is not to oppose liberalisation to ask that it be done in a way that takes account of these factors and allows the continuation of a universal and affordable postal service .
mr president , i consider it a privilege that i am replacing my colleague , commissioner bolkestein , on the occasion of such a high-quality debate on postal services .
i will try to respond to the debate on the basis of information provided by commissioner bolkestein .
the scheduled date of 1 january 2003 for implementation of the next steps remains feasible .
we can see in the incumbent operators , in public post offices , a change of culture that i believe nobody can consider negative if the current trend towards concentrating on customers ' needs continues .
we are all aware of the extremely important aspect of social and structural cohesion , especially in the sparsely populated rural areas , one of which has been particularly strongly and overwhelmingly represented in the debate this morning .
in the postal sector the first phase is already in progress , as the universal service providers have embarked on a process of modernisation .
they have all been available on the commission ' s internet website since august 1999 and the commission is willing to provide copies to anybody who is interested .
the studies have been the object of some criticism , especially on the part of the public postal services .
the examples of liberalisation and competition in air transport and in telephony services in europe show that citizens have benefited from this .
i can only say again that commissioner bolkestein will be able to address all the concerns on monday , in the appropriate committee , more competently and in much more detail .
the debate is closed .
postal services do not provide simply a postal delivery service but also a social service .
liberalisation of postal services would mean that the state could give each pensioner an extra itl 10 million a year so that a million pensioners would see their pensions doubled .
mr president , i voted in favour of the resolution on european postal services with all the more satisfaction since it reiterates once again the position i have always defended in this house , which is the need for a high quality universal service , particularly ensuring this service in the least populated regions and rural regions , and there are some even in my small country , the grand duchy of luxembourg .
nonetheless , liberalisation , which has a lot to offer to the consumer in terms of the price and the quality of the service , especially in the telephone sector , must cease as soon as the service provided becomes inadequate or disappears , when the firms profiting from liberalisation are not making money .
if they cannot be obliged to provide what the state monopoly was able to guarantee , particularly thanks to its obligation to provide a universal service , then the public service must be protected .
statement by the president ladies and gentlemen , as you know , on 22 february , eta struck again in a brutal attack in spain with the murder of fernando buesa blanco , the general secretary of the socialist party of vizcaya and the spokesman of the socialist party of the basque parliament , and jorge diez elorza , his bodyguard .
these men paid with their lives for their commitment to democracy .
i would ask you , ladies and gentlemen , to observe one minute ' s silence in memory of fernando buesa blanco and jorge diez elorza . ( the house rose and observed a minute ' s silence ) madam president , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , i want to thank you for your statement last tuesday and for your words today in memory of fernando buesa blanco .
this process may take a long time but it is unstoppable and , what is more , desirable .
in a debate within the socialist party on the irish process , someone said : " in the end , the key to the irish solution was that everyone involved had the following thought : does it really matter whether we are irish or british ?
on the contrary , we must take strength from knowing that the only social division which exists in the basque country is the abyss which separates those who kill , and those who support and express understanding for the latter , from the vast majority of the basque people who simply want to live in peace and freedom . ( loud applause ) madam president , on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party , i must indicate my complete and categorical condemnation of the terrorist attack on 22 february in vitoria which took the lives of the socialist mp and spokesman in the basque parliament , fernando buesa , and his bodyguard , jorge diez .
we pray that these are the last victims in a process which , as you said , madam president , has seen much barbarism .
we are not just confined to brussels or strasbourg .
let us all go back to our respective nations and shout from the rooftops that our belief in democracy and our indignation are not just words , but a demonstration of our actual political commitment .
fourthly , we express our repulsion at the fact that this dual assassination was intended to directly destroy the political process aimed at achieving peace in the basque country .
we , euskal herritarrok , have regretted many times the loss of human lives .
twenty years have passed since the northern ireland question was first raised in this parliament .
may i ask : quousque tandem - noiz arte ?
madam president , thank you for giving me the floor .
i wonder if you are now in a position to confirm to parliament that the quaestors have agreed in principle that the register should be published on the internet and , if so , whether you will personally set them a deadline - perhaps 1 april - for doing so .
in this context , activity-based management is the key to ensuring coherence between objectives , actions and resources .
we are going to create a management and control system in every directorate-general .
in fact , the commission desires this reform in order to become a model of excellence for the whole of europe and the world .
i would stress that this style of debate is something very new and , in my opinion , it has forced us to radically change our way of thinking as well .
we may need to come back to you and ask for additional resources to fund the new tasks which have been assigned to us and those which will be assigned to us in the future .
the commission wishes to be judged on results and results alone - on what we achieve .
parliament and the council are also called upon to take up all the challenges presented by these reforms .
i am glad to be here together with president prodi and my colleague , michele schreyer , to present the white paper adopted by the commission this morning : " reforming the commission " .
together with romano prodi , i express my gratitude to this house and to the very large number of people who have put time and effort into giving us their constructive responses .
the white paper puts reform in its proper political context .
the treaties have been revised , new managerial tasks have been attributed by this parliament and by the council to the commission , and many other changes of great significance have occurred in our union , in our continent and in the world .
all institutions in the european union will have to face up to the issues posed by the reform and face up to them honestly and responsibly .
i do not make this point because of any desire in the prodi commission to retreat from activities or responsibilities .
that means closing any significant gap between obligations and operational resources either by reducing activities or by increasing means or by a combination of both .
in each of the three pillars of reform , the active support and cooperation of this house will be absolutely vital .
and finally , in the crucial area of financial management where the court of auditors , the committee of independent experts and other external and internal analyses have strongly advised radical change , the support of this house in implementing the recommendations for full security of money and value for money will be of prime importance .
i have no doubt that we will do that on several occasions in the coming months and years , and i certainly look forward to the questions of honourable members this afternoon .
recently , the immunity of a former commissioner was lifted and proceedings are currently pending before a judge in brussels on the basis that brussels is the seat of the community institutions .
in the particular case that the honourable member has in mind , not only did the commission easily and quickly come to a decision to waive the immunity of a former commissioner , but the former commissioner herself advised the commission of her desire that the immunity should be lifted .
i can see the complexities that concern the honourable member , but i say to him that in the last five years there have been ten cases in which there have been requests from national legal authorities for the immunity of 26 officials to be lifted , and every single one of those requests has been met , and met with alacrity .
and i make the point , before i move to my questions , that what happens concerning the staff regulations in the commission has a fundamental role on our responsibility also as employers of staff because , of course , the european parliament staff operate under the same conditions .
and if we look at the original proposals - and i suspect that we will see the same in the new ones - it was not until 2002 that we were going to complete overall reform of the staff regulations .
indeed , it was not until 2001 that some of the key elements of appraisal were going to be introduced .
on the second part of mr harbour ' s question , he will see in the course of this year how with greater precision we will be showing how the application more extensively of information technology will facilitate change , not only in terms of the working practices and conditions of the staff but in the operation of the commission , as the president briefly outlined in his statement .
i would like to make one last point in answer to mr harbour .
i wish i could honestly say to him that we will be compiling and providing in the form of proposals communications before 2001 and certainly be putting them into effect before 2002 , but he will be aware there are legally required consultation procedures and periods which we must respect .
i would like everything to happen much more quickly .
i hope that , in terms of the degree of cooperation and partnership that we can enjoy in all aspects of this policy with the council and with parliament , not only will we get rapid implementation of policy development in the most effective way , but that we will be able to do it by coordination at the right time which will produce the maximum benefit for the union .
secondly , on the question of ex ante and ex post auditing and procedures , do i understand correctly - and i have not had the opportunity to wade into the detail of the paper - that the unanimous decision of the commission is indeed to empower the directorates-general to liberate them from the ex ante visae system but to put in their place a strong ex post and independent and centralised audit system ?
it will not be just one of the screenings that the commission has periodically undertaken but a very thorough and sharp review within directorates-general and across the commission for which we have established a mechanism for reviewing the demands on us and the means that we have to meet those demands .
i would emphasise , too , that the intention is not only to liberate the personnel of the commission - that is certainly an objective - but it is simultaneously to " responsibilise " - it is an appalling word but we all know what it means .
in undertaking such a development in our organisation i am certain that we can match or even advance upon the success and increase in job motivation which has come as a consequence of similar developments in several administrations , both in the public sector and in the private sector , in the last decade or so .
i think that the end of the centralised system will certainly not result in any relaxation of effective financial control but will increase its effectiveness and its relationship to operational tasks .
so , the changes that we seek to make - as i say consistent with the very strong and clear recommendations of the committee of independent experts - are not negative in any way at all .
there will also be evidence of the fact that we have taken heed of the representations made in this house particularly in the committee on budgetary control , and that is significant in respect of the use of ex ante visas in directorates-general .
if that is felt in a directorate-general to be a relevant and effective way of enhancing financial control , the ex ante system can be used .
but , on this issue , i do not see any room for soft law which is why in the transition period there will be total adherence to the current financial regulation until that law is changed by due democratic process in this house and in the council .
two other points i must make , because this is an essential question central to reform .
irresponsibility because the feeling exists in some quarters that there will not be sufficient control and discipline .
in the course of the coming years i will be continuing the practice i have already started , together with several of my commission colleagues obviously , of very profound discussions with the administrations of the incoming new member states .
the other question i would like to ask is on the audit progress committee .
in order however to strip back those obligations to their minimum , we are not just talking about it ; we will be appointing in the very near future a deputy secretary-general , an additional deputy secretary-general with the specific mandate and mission of identifying best practices and spreading them throughout the commission and of ensuring a radical reduction in the procedures which generate so much paper , so much bureaucracy and i must say so much frustration , not only for the citizens and businesses of the union but for the people who work for the commission too .
much has happened since the last time i was here to talk about foreign and security policy issues in our continent .
this afternoon i should like to share with you some ideas , particularly on the common foreign and security policy .
in recent months , since the last time i appeared before you , important events have occurred in this house and also in the european union .
chechnya has also been one of our main concerns and i will speak briefly on this at the end , in the light of an important conversation which i had this morning with the council of europe representative , mr alvaro gil-robles , on his recent visit to the region .
however , i realise that you asked me here to talk to you more specifically about foreign policy and particularly security policy in europe since helsinki .
this basically involves relations between the european union and the atlantic alliance and relations between the european union and those countries which , although geographically in europe , are not part of the european union , or at least not at the moment .
i will restrict myself to these three points in order to bring you up to date with events .
firstly , with regard to the decision-making bodies , the political and security committee met for the first time this morning , 1 march 2000 .
therefore , two months after the helsinki declaration and decision , a political and security committee meeting has taken place for the first time within the european union .
the fifteen countries have appointed diplomatic experts at ambassador level in order to tackle one of the most important issues which we will face in the coming months .
secondly , the military committee , which represents the various chiefs of staff of the fifteen countries , will hold its first meeting on 7 march which will be just over two months after the helsinki declaration .
mozambique is surely an excellent current example of how intervention may be required in terms of military logistics , not for military purposes , but with strictly humanitarian ends .
in less than two months we have established the mechanics for cooperation with the commission .
i must thank commissioner patten who is here today for his support and the tremendous energy that he has also invested in trying to ensure that all these issues could be settled in such a short time .
this is a major operation and an important objective but i can say that we are in a position to meet this challenge which the heads of state and government posed in helsinki .
on monday , just two days ago , in sintra , a beautiful city very close to lisbon , the defence ministers of the fifteen member states met and took some important decisions towards implementing this headline goal defined in helsinki .
the proposed timetable is tight but essential and will require great determination from all of us , including this house .
before 24 march we will therefore have established this timetable so that the general affairs council can , on this date , do its job and do it well .
secondly , we must look at the capacity which each country has so that this total force of 60 000 soldiers is distributed in an orderly and efficient manner between the fifteen countries .
thirdly , we must look at the differences between the headline goal and what each country can provide .
i would like to say that in the meantime there will be at least four european councils , those in lisbon and feira and two during the french presidency .
the european union must carry out this whole operation in collaboration with the third countries to which i have referred which , although geographically in europe , are not members of the european union .
in this respect we are also working closely and positively with the commission .
however , before this happens , i must tell you about a telephone conversation which i had a few hours ago with the council of europe representative on the subject of chechnya .
madam president , this is the second time we have had occasion to enter into discussion with the high representative javier solana , and i would like to begin by addressing a few words to the commission ' s representative , chris patten .
i hope , commissioner patten , that you will still have the opportunity to evaluate our discussion .
mr solana , you mentioned sintra .
however , the rhetoric our governments in the countries of the european union are using must be followed up with deeds .
several governments are cutting back on their budgets and also their defence capability .
please encourage the governments in the countries of the european union to put their money where their mouth is , so that we are not left with rhetoric and less security at the end of the day , but rather we have a more secure europe . ( applause ) now our american friends have expressed some concerns , and i emphasise " our american friends " for we do want a north atlantic alliance between the usa and europe that operates in an amicable manner and on the basis of equal rights .
for only if we pull together within the european union and live in harmony will we also be able to set an example for peace and the peaceful resolution of conflicts outside the european union .
my friend jacques poos will be talking about this on behalf of my group .
the kfor forces have made , and are making , an invaluable contribution , but tanks and fire trenches cannot deal with political problems and ethnic conflicts in the longer term .
this is therefore a test of credibility for the union ' s common foreign and security policy .
when it comes to the balkans and kosovo , i also hope that the council will comply with parliament ' s and , as i understand it , also the commission ' s demands for a multiannual budget for operations in kosovo .
mr president , mr solana , you have the full support and confidence of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party , but we would remind you of the huge responsibility which now rests upon your shoulders .
you are building castles in the air and your route map up to the year 2003 calls for 60 000 soldiers .
i am not a warmonger , but if we do not have soldiers to stop the criminals in kosovo , then what is the point in having soldiers at all ?
he is not always right , but in this case he is .
if a civilian task force can , at the same time , intervene before and during a conflict and if we fail to take that step , we are behaving like children who like to play at sending in soldiers , but who are incapable of sending in civilians .
as long as we do not have a balance between the military and the civilian elements , we shall not be credible .
what my group deplores , however , mr solana , is that you seem to wish to fulfil your important responsibilities in far too unilateral a fashion .
first of all , you only deal with the security considerations in their military dimension , by making virtual deadlock with regard to what we believe is essential , that is to say , a major policy of prevention , very much upstream of the risks of conflict , that would in itself deserve a common strategy at union level .
finally and in particular , we hardly hear you speak at all about the other part of your mission : the foreign policy of the union .
in the balkans , a year after the nato bombings started and in the light of the significant crisis in mitrovica , are you prepared to carry out a critical evaluation of the whole strategy implemented in this region in order to learn some useful lessons ?
they call into question the ambitions that we set ourselves with regard to this part of the world and , consequently , the changes to be advocated in the current world order , or rather , disorder .
my group would like our dialogue , our cooperation and , where appropriate , our political confrontations , to be included too , and primarily , among these issues .
we believe that poor old europe can only speak with one voice to say nothing or , and this is possibly more serious , that it can only resolve its diplomatic contradictions by simply tagging along with american politics .
in short , what purpose can an armed force have in the absence of any policy ?
on behalf of the combined european right , i must say to you , mr solana , as high representative for common foreign and security policy , we do not have confidence in you .
you say that you are against war , but as secretary-general of nato you started a war .
today , even mr cohn-bendit - and that is saying something - can gauge the results of the disastrous policy that he so wished for .
we also have several questions to ask you that show our concern , that is the least one can say .
first of all , in your view , does the common foreign and security policy aim to protect the security of the member states of the union , as one might think , or do you recognise their right to intervene anywhere in the world ?
in kosovo , it was for humanitarian reasons that we systematically destroyed all the civilian infrastructure in serbia .
finally , you spoke about using the great resources of crisis management .
not to make war , of course , but to protect peace .
mr solana , these questions convey our concern .
mr president , i too welcome the presence of the high representative and his availability to answer members ' questions this time round .
the portuguese presidency has made great progress in establishing a series of provisional or interim bodies .
in record time it has organised this informal meeting of defence ministers and has highlighted a whole series of milestones on the long road towards this common foreign and security policy .
this meeting was based on two documents , one being a british document on the headline goals and the other a document on the permanent military bodies of the european union .
mr solana , as the rapporteur of the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , i shall limit my speech to those subjects .
you have , mr solana , heard the force of the criticisms made by the members of parliament who do not accept the appalling situations in kosovo , chechnya and elsewhere .
and today , as far as you are concerned , i acknowledge your efforts to build a european security and defence policy that is worthy of the name and which has not hitherto existed .
but i do give you credit for your intense work , the number of meetings held , your efforts to create a rapid intervention force , your specific efforts to prevent crises , to manage them or stop them through civilian means and , if necessary , by military means .
i should like to take advantage of your presence here today to ask you two questions of the " what is to be done " variety .
i believe that the italian president of the council mentioned this point at your meeting on 24 february .
mr solana can play an important role in this .
mr solana must keep europe awake without nodding off himself .
in kosovo , we stepped in with military means , having been unable to prevent the war in ex-yugoslavia .
as representatives from the group of the greens / european free alliance , we all come from nations and regions which have never gone out to war with foreign countries , but we always needed to fight those who came to oppress us .
at the moment , europe does not have a foreign policy to speak of .
mr president , allow me to start with the conquest of kosovo .
all the signs point towards a second round of attacks on yugoslavia and this is confirmed by the kla attacks on serbs in mitrovica , the attempt to annex three towns in southern serbia to kosovo , the promotion of the independence of kosovo , the fact that two thousand men have been channelled into kosovo via greece , despite the objections of the greek people and , at the same time , intense efforts by nato and the european union to overturn the legitimate government of yugoslavia .
commissioner , mr solana , there is no doubt that you are acting quickly and forcefully and that you have made great progress in certain areas .
my first question , mr solana and commissioner , is to establish whether , together , you have framed strategies that will , at least gradually , lead to the creation of a process that integrates the common foreign and security policy within the community process .
we know the strength that they have acquired over these forty years of building the community .
at the same time , an appeal has also been made in broad terms to increase the defence budgets .
i think that this is to be welcomed , but this appeal does not really distinguish very clearly between petersberg tasks and wider , collective defence tasks .
high representative , you have efficiently drawn our attention to the progress we made in this field between amsterdam and helsinki and to certain decisions which have already been taken since helsinki , such as the establishment of the three committees and , of course , the decision to provide for the deployment of a 50-60 000-strong military force .
however , this increase in pace accentuates the lack of coordination between these decisions and the on-going intergovernmental conference even further .
mr president , mr solana , commissioner patten , the most recent steps taken by the council on the european security and defence policy front are , to my mind , in flagrant contravention of the principle of democratic control with regard to military operations .
the second way in which the sintra meeting fell short was that although there are now efficient military decision-making structures , the concept of non-military crisis management is still completely nebulous .
mr solana , the war in kosovo and the continuing crisis , have served to reveal a european public opinion that is aware that defending the fundamental values that gave rise to the european union , throughout the world , should no longer continue to rest solely on the shoulders of the president of the united states of america and that the time has come to share the burden , which our american friends have constantly been demanding since europe became a world economic power .
over the last year , the member states of the union have , naturally , decided to implement specific measures designed to strengthen the operational capability of their armed forces and the informal summit in sintra , held the day before yesterday in your presence , has just confirmed the main trends .
the first question concerns the training of this rapid intervention force of 60 000 men , which , as you have said , is likely to be deployed to perform peace-keeping and peace-building missions and be capable of maintaining them on a long-term basis , if necessary .
my first question , mr solana , will be simple and more direct , perhaps , than those of my colleagues who have spoken before me .
my second question is of a more technical nature , but it is important for the responsibilities of the atlantic alliance and the western european union to be transferred to the european union as harmoniously as possible .
you have told us , in this regard , that three committees are being set up , a political committee and a security committee , which started up today , and a military committee .
you then spoke of their relations with the third country members of the atlantic alliance or associate members of the western european union but which are not members of the european union .
mr president , secretary-general , as you can tell , the members of this house have listened with great interest to your information on the result of the informal meeting of defence ministers in sintra and its significance in the european integration process in terms of security and defence .
accordingly , i would like to make a few observations , not about the security framework of tomorrow , but about security in the balkan region today .
coordinator hombach and commissioner patten are working hard to push through the solidarity pact .
two weeks ago in strasbourg , we also talked extensively to commissioner patten about relations with macedonia .
i think that the new government can also be of help in the political relations with belgrade .
if this happens , the united states ' government and the british government have given it to be understood that they will resort to military intervention .
i would also like to know whether , in this context , it would not be possible to do something to induce the iraqi government to take a humanitarian step and to release some information regarding the 615 missing kuwaitis , or to set them free if this is within their power .
mr president , high representative , there is an interesting debate going on in france at present about some of the things the prime minister said when he visited israel .
the debate is interesting in that one of the questions it addresses is : who is a terrorist ?
surely a point of controversy between a prime minister and a president about an issue as important as this , at a flash point so close to europe , ought to be irrelevant in view of the fact that europe as a whole should have a position in this regard .
therefore , i would also like to ask you in this connection , what you intend to do , for example , when it comes to the middle east - unfortunately peace will be slower in coming than we would like it to be , particularly a lasting peace - in order to expound and assert a european position , and to make it plain for all to see in this important region .
i therefore believe that the european union - in addition to the military aspects , which i would like to place great emphasis on , particularly when it comes to peace in this region , which is not a million miles away from us - should have a clear and unequivocal position .
i hope that , once the other important issues have been dealt with , you will also find the time to see to it that a common european position is enunciated .
as we sit here , hundreds of thousands of people are in enormous peril from the floods in mozambique .
the level of practical assistance from the community and from the member states has been pathetic .
of course , there is a relationship between military resources and humanitarian assistance , and there are serious military deficiencies in the armed forces of many european countries .
i have not yet heard a convincing security-policy explanation of why the european union needs to establish autonomous , decision-making capabilities for the use of military forces outside of the nato structures unless it is to create bodies which will rival nato .
after all , the eu member states are either full members of nato or sit around the euro atlantic partnership council table .
finally , mr solana , i would just like to ask you what point there is in having the much heralded policy planning and early warning cell in the council secretariat if still we are taken by surprise by yet another humanitarian catastrophe .
mr president , high representative , commissioner , with regard to the war in chechnya , we have all noted the particularly restrained and almost accommodating reaction of the international community in general and of the european union in particular .
the war in chechnya proves , if proof were necessary , that the duty or the right to intervene stops at the borders of the great powers .
some of us here are passionately in favour of creating a distinctly european security organisation to defend peace in the world .
however , we note that you have said nothing to us about the fact that the role of the security council , as referred to at helsinki , was contested recently .
mr president , i seem to recall from my study of european history , that the 1809 convention of sintra was a controversial peace agreement which probably lengthened rather than shortened the napoleonic wars and nearly cost the duke of wellington his job .
that said , i would like to congratulate the high representative on the progress that has been made so far .
to what extent are we going to get some form of convergence on defence expenditure , because some member states spend considerably more than others .
they are very static in their military forces , and unsuitable for this sort of warfare .
i strongly support the decisions taken at sintra .
the creation of the interim structures and the plans that are now being put into place to provide the military capacity for achieving eu policy objectives are positive steps in the right direction .
however , while all these developments are indeed welcome , i would like to address a matter which i have raised in this house on previous occasions .
we have a lot of proud talk about 60 000 troops being prepared in 60 days to be available for a whole year , but we currently have crises in europe and on the borders of europe and elsewhere which this union is failing abjectly to deal with .
mr president , mr solana , i don ' t want to repeat everything that has already been said here .
kfor could step up its presence in mitrovica and be stationed in crisis areas of kosovo if its current tasks were to be taken on by policemen .
i believe that is what our task ought to have been , and you could play a part in this !
i tend to think that maybe mr van den bos is right that i would need the capacity of the angels to answer so many questions in such a short period of time , but i will try .
we are in the business of creating capabilities that , put together in case of need , can avoid tragedies such as those we have recently experienced .
it is very important to be talking about prevention .
i can tell you , and you know , that prevention capabilities exist already in the union .
the european union is going to be , at the end of the day , the most important group of countries able to face problems related to crisis matters , from the humanitarian crises to force deployment .
in a very few days eurocorps built up by european countries is going to be deployed to kosovo not to walk around , but to prevent people from killing one another .
military personnel in our countries are waiting for a crisis .
policemen in our countries are working 24 hours a day , and for governments it is difficult sometimes to find the appropriate police force to be deployed .
now , mr haarder asked about the risk of a rift between the european union and nato .
i do not see why we should become estranged or split or damage the capacity that we have to continue working together .
the people who are there already with their white uniforms , the white uniforms of the european union have been deployed in bosnia for many , many years and are now deployed in kosovo .
let me say two things only .
the troika visited the middle east at the beginning of the year .
the european union , the european countries are doing their best to continue cooperating in the peace process and offering to help all parties when it is required in order to implement the agreements that will be reached .
many questions have been asked about what i think about the igc , security , defence , etc .
i do not know how to answer that question .
let me answer the specific questions about the statement that has been made by the minister for defence of france about 0.7 .
i think this is an objective that the countries have to decide if they want to do it or not .
in reply to the question about article v , we have two article vs as you know .
one article v for those countries that belong to the alliance and the other article v for the countries that belong to the weu .
the weu is going to transfer its assets to the european union , or certain parts .
as you know , there are countries in the european union which are not ready and they will not accept a transfer of article v , brussels article , into the european union framework and therefore we cannot do it .
it is much more important to see what the country has done .
i would like to say that as regards the status of those countries which are not members of the european union but which are members of the alliance and eventually will be members of the european union , we would like to get them involved .
mr galeote quecedo asked about the diplomatic corps in the european union .
it is working well and i very much hope that it will be a great success for the countries of the region and also for the european union .
you know very well that helsinki took a very important decision , a very important decision concerning chechnya .
we will have again a meeting with the united states the following day and then we will have a trilateral meeting , the united states and european union and russia together in which , as you can imagine , the number one item on the agenda is going to be chechnya .
let me end - i do not want to take up your time any longer - by saying that i am ready to come here whenever you want but i would prefer , if it is possible , to have sessions in which we concentrate on some topics and develop them to the fullest , because if not , we have so many topics , so many issues that it is very difficult to really treat them in depth .
helsinki was in december and our prime ministers and our heads of state asked us to do something very important for the first time .
i would just like to say a word or two myself on that particular subject .
many people will argue that of course all that is required in europe is for us to make better use of our existing resources but i suspect there will be a growing debate in our own countries in the member states about whether that really is enough , about whether that is going to secure the sort of security policy which we wish to be more responsible for in our own union .
i would just like to say a word about the non-military aspects of our security policy , of conflict prevention and crisis management .
we will be bringing forward to the council before lisbon our proposals on a rapid reaction facility so that we can provide assistance where it is required , not in months or years , but in days or weeks .
additionally , and this is for me the most important area of all , an area where we are breaking new ground , we will , soon after we have put forward our proposals on a rapid reaction facility , be bringing forward proposals as well on non-military headline goals .
it is , i repeat , breaking new ground but it is very important that we do it for a number of reasons and policing in kosovo , policing elsewhere , is the most dramatic and obvious example .
i grew up as a kid hoping i would be allowed to stay up on saturday evenings in order to see a television programme about a community policeman called dixon of dock green .
i have just been writing a report before i came to this job , and writing a very good report , just to respond to my honourable friend , on policing in part of my own country .
but that sort of approach to policing alas is not what is required in kosovo .
we have armed forces , we have all got experience of training community police officers .
one thing i would advise him to do is to listen to radio 4 at the end of march to the first reith lecture where he will hear the commissioner for external relations giving an extremely moving and convincing lecture on this whole subject .
we will be producing a communication shortly on an issue which this parliament feels passionately about , that is , how we can ensure that election observation is conducted as comprehensively and sensibly as possible without diminishing the integrity of the institutions which do it .
i would very much hope that we can all live on a planet which is also inhabited by the european council , the general affairs council and ecofin .
all on the same political planet together and making sure that there is some harmony between what we promised the world and what we can actually deliver .
i have heard promises that we will establish a stability pact in the southern caucuses .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
the scholars of ancient greece bequeathed to us the assumption that there is a natural link between equality and justice .
as man is given to excess in everything , when he can be , he is excessive in his inequality " .
modernity and the system of democracy in which it exists is based on the idea of a social contract , a form of association which , in the words of rousseau , " defends and protects the person and property of each member with all common force and according to which each member , in association with the others , nevertheless only obeys himself and remains as free as before .
in post-modern society , now that we have declared that rousseau ' s social contract is no longer sufficient , we must call for a new form of contract , one which is richer and more enriching because it is more in tune with human nature , with its natural polarity between men and women .
we are living in an era in which politics has become debased and in which democracies suffer from a lack of political commitment on the part of their citizens .
globalisation has various implications for democracy .
under the portuguese presidency , and bearing in mind the efforts and the contributions made by the various member states , the lisbon special summit , which will be held on the theme ' employment , economic reform and social cohesion : towards a new europe of innovation and knowledge ' , seeks to counter these risks , which have historically always been more serious for women , particularly in those areas most directly related to the specific theme proposed .
we are therefore seeking to overhaul the european social model and at the same time to increase employment and social cohesion .
this will only be possible if there is a new social contract in which reconciling family life and professional life is given strategic importance and in which " sharing " is the key word .
it is obvious that the lack of real equality betrays a lack of legitimacy in our political structures and demonstrates how unrepresentative they are .
humanity is divided into two sexes , and we need a system in which discussions and decisions are undertaken by men and women on an equal basis .
that is why i believe in parity , the new face of sexual equality , which gives universality back its true meaning and its rightful place in a politically organised society .
from what we know of this process , it seems obvious that it is crucial to pursue and strengthen the policy of equality between men and women at community level because , despite all the progress made and all the work done , we still see significant examples of disparity between men and women in economic , political , social and civil terms .
the first period was a period of institutional change , change in the legislative framework and huge constitutional victories in all the member states as a result of the fight by the women ' s movement , as a result of major decisions by progressive parties and as the result of action by enlightened men and women .
there were women everywhere .
the composition , or rather the change in composition , will also bring about changes in policies - policies which need to take account of the merits and experience of both sexes .
ladies and gentlemen , the first few months of the new millennium have been marked by two important events : the first was the election of the president of finland , mrs halinen .
a great deal has been said and numerous policies have been implemented in the member states .
the number of women on committees who wield power and frame policies is very small .
we need a policy mix which includes long-term political commitments , as in sweden and finland ; they now have governments in which women account for 56 % and 44 % of members respectively .
the recent initiative by the finnish presidency to develop indicators recording and reflecting the representation of women in the decision-making centres is extremely important .
a decision has already been taken on quotas of 40 % for each sex on all teams and on all research and technological development programmes .
we in the commission are obliged to set a specific and clear example and all the commissioners are working together , as can be seen from the reform of the commission , to achieve 40 % representation of women on all the committees of the european commission .
the various political groups generally agree on the easily verifiable observation that women are under-represented in the decision-making process , in both the political and the economic and social spheres .
nobody nowadays disputes that women should participate in political life , in the parties and in the institutions but it is not easy to agree on how this participation should be achieved .
we are convinced that the participation of women in the decision-making process will be beneficial to society as a whole .
the difficulty lies in finding the right solution to allow women to have a greater presence in positions of responsibility and therefore in decision making .
in some countries of the european union a compulsory quota formula has been adopted which immediately produces a more equal presence of women .
the real percentage is much lower and it is this participation at the grassroots which we must promote in order to ensure a greater presence of women .
there must also be a clear and real will to allow more women , who are ready and able , to assume responsibilities and commitments in political life and therefore in the decision-making process .
it happens to be today that finland ' s newly elected president , tarja halonen , takes up office .
and so the women in finland have also set down a marker , for this is the first time they have had a female head of state .
they did not follow the council recommendation of 1996 on equal involvement for women and overcoming the under-representation of women .
we need this new social treaty , we need the fight for power , money and distribution of work , which must favour women .
men have never wished to surrender positions of power when they had them , but there are also very few women who have been willing to give up their positions of power , and i am thinking here , in particular , of positions of power in relation to children .
inevitably , we should like , for the same reasons of power politics , to be allowed to have this debate more or less to ourselves .
in fact , 45 % of the danish government is made up of women , and that is , in reality , a touch more than in finland .
i think that this field offers some quite distinctive opportunities for women , specifically because it is characterised by flat , rather than hierarchical , structures .
we all know to what extent women are under-represented in decision making at all levels because we have the statistics and they speak for themselves .
if we believe in the principle of equal representation of women and men in decision making we need to commit ourselves to the actions that are necessary to make it happen .
in my own country , sweden , a number of political parties have , in recent years , voluntarily introduced quota allocation by gender as a feature governing the ways in which political assemblies are constituted and run .
in anticipation of this request being met , i now want to take the opportunity of wishing all socialist women success with the " women ' s world marches " which are to begin this spring on international women ' s day .
the vast majority of them are not members of any party .
our group wants to encourage the fair representation of men and women in the institutions of the european union .
that is why we reject the policy of quotas and positive discrimination , whether it is in favour of women or supposed social minorities .
the policy of minorities , while neglecting the deep-seated unity of the human family , to establish superficial divisions , is a dangerous threat to the cohesion of the social fabric and the equilibrium of our democratic system .
the establishment of social quotas in favour of the very smallest categories would be no more ludicrous than establishing quotas of women .
on the other hand , such a policy shows a deep contempt for women .
women deserve more than a quota .
it is by reviving the principle of meritocracy that we shall improve in quantity and quality the presence of women in the decision-making process in quantity and quality .
i know from experience that many women share this view .
minister , commissioner , everything you have just said has been very well expressed , even if a few male colleagues , if there are still any in the chamber , perhaps gnashed their teeth .
i know that there are also some women who do not wish to hear of quotas or even of positive action , because they believe that this positive discrimination humiliates them and marks them forever in their careers .
but the statistics prove it : the positive action , even the quotas , - if they are not applied blindly , without distinction - have increased the number of women in the decision-making process .
first of all it concerns our report , which was adopted last year on the occasion of international women ' s day in strasbourg , which requests the commission to submit to us a new proposal to amend the 1976 directive on the implementation of the principle of the equal treatment of men and women .
may i just remind you once again of our request for an amendment to the 1976 directive which has been watered down and misapplied with regard to the equal treatment of self-employed people , including assistant spouses .
the presence of women in decision-making bodies , in particular , is a question of democracy .
the price paid by women for following their desire to be protagonists in all spheres is that they never have enough time .
if this is true , and it is , any appropriate policy which aims to find positive solutions to these problems must start from this point .
finally , i would like to say that it is now essential that we also raise this issue at the intergovernmental conference .
we know that this area is proving more difficult to resolve , both because women still bear the main responsibilities in family life and because there is still prejudice and personal interest standing in the way of genuine participation by women in various areas which involve greater responsibility .
the truth is that the scant participation of women in centres of political representation and decision making demonstrates a democratic deficit which is incompatible with genuine democracy .
it is therefore essential for the various directives on equality to be complied with and for the council , the commission and each member state strictly to respect the commitments they have made , particularly at the beijing conference .
madam president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i am a right-wing member of parliament but i have the same battles as my colleagues in supporting and assisting fellow citizens in my country to gain power and access to decision-making posts , which should be feasible not only in the political arena but clearly also in all sectors of society .
it should have existed for a long time because women represent more than half of society and it seems quite clear to me that it is natural for them to represent at least 50 % , if not more , of those within decision-making bodies and , inter alia , in the political arena .
an important part of such a plan would be a benchmarking system to guarantee women ' s full participation in power structures and decision making .
the call for women ' s participation in decision making on an equal footing with men is not only a demand for social justice and democracy ; it is also essential if women ' s experience and knowledge are to be utilised to the full .
we want this opportunity to bring substantial changes to our lives in society at large , we want democracy to be synonymous with equality between men and women , and we do not want women to be excluded socially or economically as is still happening today .
the rate of employment in europe , which is much lower than in the united states and japan , must be increased .
we must therefore have many more women in work , and working in the new jobs in which the eu has a shortfall .
i would therefore like to ask the council and the commission what proposals they will be presenting at the forthcoming lisbon summit to ensure that the new economy and the new europe we want to build will definitely include equality between men and women .
mr president , commissioner , the reason why i was so pleased with your intervention was that you had the courage to list the member states where the political representation of women is a success , such as , for example , in finland , france and sweden , and equally , you had the courage to list the member states where things in this respect are not going so well , such as , for example , my own country and greece too , which you forgot to mention .
the electoral system which corresponds most closely to this model is the one-for-one system , as is being applied in sweden on a voluntary basis .
i hope that in the fifth action programme , minister and commissioner , benchmarking will enable the best practices of those countries to be carried through , for it is time that our groups gained an understanding of this .
mr president , i too should like to congratulate the commissioner and the president-in-office of the council for their solid recommendations and , above all , for their proposals .
there are , therefore , serious grounds , over and above justice between the sexes , for distributing public offices and political and economic power fairly and evenly between men and women .
these female virtues can offer an alternative to today ' s culture of violence and institute a new political culture and a fairer and more prosperous society for everyone .
that is why the intergovernmental conference must introduce into the treaty the principle of balanced representation of women and men in all the institutions of the european union and in all democratic institutions and political decision-making centres throughout the community .
it is a demand for simple justice and for democracy and , as such , a condition for political legitimacy .
in my opinion , though , the state should not and must not use coercion to interfere in the internal affairs of political parties , at the risk of jeopardising democracy itself .
in other words , the means which we employ to give women their rightful place within the political democracy should not lead to a system of gender apartheid .
to my mind , quotas will - as was stated here , moreover - be merely a provisional instrument .
i can tell you what happened in portugal last year when a law on quotas for party lists was discussed .
if a political party holds a meeting in the evening and the man cannot go home because he has to attend as he is a member of the party ' s executive , that is seen as a good reason for the man not to go home to play his part in the household chores , which are also his responsibility .
therefore , until there is a change in this idea of sharing , sharing the responsibilities that the right to have a family implies , obviously nothing will change in terms of women being able to participate in the political process .
however , in order to find these solutions , we need measures for positive action which contribute to them .
i therefore fail to understand what the problem with quotas is , given that in principle , they will only be used as an instrument in countries where women are under-represented and where these draft laws have been approved in parliaments where , by definition , men are in the majority .
these measures for positive and balanced action respecting people ' s dignity must be adopted in various areas .
the presidency is therefore extremely keen to support initiatives designed to radically change this situation , even if it has to use transitional instruments which have already proved to be the only way to achieve the objective of balanced representation in decision-making processes .
the presidency is extremely anxious and entirely committed to support these methods , not as objectives in themselves but as a means to an end .
we have entered a new period in which there is a fairly full institutional framework and in which women are well represented in all sectors , education , work , culture .
the problem which we have to deal with is how to change the composition of the decision-making centres .
the first is a policy of persuasion .
as far as europe is concerned , as far as the european parliament is concerned , where there is a quota for the involvement of women , it will take 25 years to achieve balanced representation .
thank you , mrs diamantopoulou .
the debate is closed .
floods in mozambique the next item is the commission statement on flooding in mozambique .
the government of mozambique has appealed for humanitarian aid from third countries .
my colleague poul nielson is literally on his way to mozambique this afternoon and evening together with the portuguese secretary of state to assess the situation on the ground .
if ever a country deserved help from aid donors it was mozambique .
secondly , that feeling has been confirmed by the real efforts which mozambique has made in the last few years to build a strong and prosperous economy and a stable society .
thirdly , we spent much of this afternoon in this chamber discussing conflict prevention , how one could prevent crises happening or how one could respond to crises more effectively .
a third decision will be considered in the light of the mission of commissioner nielson .
the commission is also preparing a medium-term community response combining ngo co-financing with european development fund operations to help mozambique to respond to the crisis situation in re-establishing the rapid pace of growth that mozambique had worked so hard to achieve .
mr president , commissioner , mozambique is a young african country which has made heroic efforts to recover from the underdevelopment resulting from two decades of civil war and to adapt to democracy .
the eu and some of its member states , including my own , have provided emergency financial aid , perhaps a little later than they should have , but they have done so , as have the united states and various countries in the region , particularly south africa .
it is therefore now becoming urgent for us to start considering how we can find financial resources to rebuild the infrastructure that has been destroyed and without which mozambique cannot continue on the path towards development on which it set out a few years ago in such a promising way .
if nothing is done now , we will be letting all the effort that we have made in the past to help mozambique in its development go to waste .
mr president , it has already been said that , after a war which engulfed the country in misery , mozambique is now facing a natural disaster of terrifying proportions .
the dipecho agenda includes south-east asia , central america and the caribbean .
the pse group has always supported the commission ' s humanitarian aid policy .
in view of all this , we also believe the time has come to demand a redoubled effort by the commission and the member states , on behalf of those who are now drowning in mozambique .
mr president , the situation in mozambique is of the greatest urgency .
it is as if the whole world is looking on , helplessly .
it is therefore vital for the eu and its member states to intervene in a way which will enable us to provide this country and its people with rapid and exceptional help .
thousands upon thousands of human lives are in danger at the moment , and only international solidarity can save them .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , there remains , however , one immediate problem : the need to provide help for all mozambicans who have been afflicted , many of whose lives are in danger , in their flooded villages , hoping that they will be rescued .
we are also under an obligation to help because of another fact , the fact that mozambique is one of the few african countries to have used democratic means to recover from the bloody civil war by which it was consumed for several years after it gained independence .
but given this situation , which is so tragic for the people of mozambique , we must not fail to provide an effective and appropriate response to the appeals of mozambique ' s leaders , both those in the government and those in opposition , who , out of a sense of responsibility , have resisted from resorting to violence again as a means of solving their problems .
children have lost parents , families are bereft , hopeless , helpless and they have lost absolutely everything .
but of course , as others have said , this whole thing was predicted and predictable and the slow and very inadequate , woefully slow and woefully inadequate response is something that should dictate now that we actually do invest seriously in disaster preparedness .
there is a case as the commissioner mentioned for the implementation of a rapid response facility and rapid response force in situations like this to deal with crises such as we have there because we simply did not have the strategies or the logistical preparations in place .
most of us here would not wish to boast about eur 3 million .
we need far more and i hope that the commissioner will come back with those promises and also with an initiative to coordinate some of the efforts there .
thank you , mrs kinnock .
in europe , in your rapporteur ' s opinion , this is exactly the attitude that has served us badly over past years , not just once but repeatedly .
these risks involve a correction in the us economy and the future trend in oil prices and in long-term eu interest rates .
should any of these risks materialise in a negative fashion , what will be our response - more laissez faire or shall we have prepared ourselves better than in the last downturn ?
it has been my proposal that parliament must recommend an activist economic policy consisting of two main parts .
one is to adopt the commission ' s own excellent , outstanding econometric analysis , and ask the council to transform it into a programme of action involving certain interconnected quantifiable targets of levels of investment growth and employment that would make our commitment to a policy of full employment operational and credible .
a central plank of such a programme should be the raising of the level of investment of capital formation from 19 % , to which it has fallen over the decade , to at least 23-24 % of gdp , both in the private and in the public sector .
the second pillar consisted of embracing a large number of structural reforms , privatisation , de-regulation proposals , as well as suggestions facilitating the transition to a knowledge-based economy which , as we know , constitutes the backbone of the proposals of the presidency for the lisbon summit .
it has been repeatedly stated by expert opinion that the programme of structural reforms combined with an expansionary programme of investment and growth is capable of pulling the european economy out of its state of inertia while one-sided policies are condemned to fail .
unfortunately my colleagues of the people ' s party aided and abetted by the liberals in the economic affairs committee found my approach unacceptable .
i believe that the political message of this parliament should consist of something more original than a mere rehash of the neo-classical economic mantra .
mr president , firstly i would like to say how pleased i am that my friend giorgos katiforis is still able to muster so much enthusiasm for this very important subject so late in the evening .
the european central bank has all the instruments at its disposal that a central bank could wish for .
the european central bank is headed by convincing personalities .
price stability in the european union is better in the eleven member states than it is in the united states .
the real reason why the european countries are not finding favour is the fact that we are too slow in tackling the structural reform europe needs .
we are aware that unemployment has fallen more quickly in those countries , including eu member states , which have made their labour markets more flexible , than it has in other countries .
for example , if there is currently demand in germany for electronics experts to be brought into the european union from other countries , then this only goes to show that our own training systems have failed and that they have not been equipped to deal with the requirements of the information society in good time .
in other words , things are moving too slowly .
but now perhaps a few words on the fundamental difference between our opinion and that of the rapporteur .
the rapporteur believes in growth and stimulating demand .
at the end of the day , there are , for example , indicators here in the european union that show that growth and its prospects are by no means as solid as they were in the 80s .
an independent evaluation of european economic policy will be of importance to the european union and to structured growth .
yesterday , when speaking to the committee on economic and monetary affairs , commissioner solbes specifically indicated that the prospects for this year and next for the european economy are excellent .
we are inclined to believe that a solid basis exists for this economic growth in the union , now and in the coming years .
furthermore , the member states refused to contribute more funds when we discussed agenda 2000 which means that there will be little available over the next few years at union level .
however , we must stress the need to continue developing the construction of the european internal market which still has some serious flaws .
there are still sectors such as air transport , energy and telecommunications in which , if we compare our unit cost with that of the usa or other countries which are equally competitive at international level , the cost supported by our companies is very high .
this report contains information which shows that in order to create a new company the bureaucratic cost in the usa is eur 500 and in the european union , on average , it is eur 1 600 .
first of all , the affirmation that there is room for a europe of growth , but a europe of sustainable growth , that particularly respects the commitments of the european union at the conferences in kyoto and buenos aires .
a tremendous amount of work remains to be done in the field of transport , energy saving and even in substituting travel by communication via the internet .
secondly , even the growth rate of 3 or 4 % , something we consider eminently feasible , will not be sufficient to reduce unemployment if we do not improve the job content of this growth .
thirdly , we fully agree that it is necessary to reform labour relations in europe , but that clearly means for us that we must protect and enrich the human capital .
our committee emphatically rejected any attempt on the part of the rapporteur to use his report to introduce a different dimension into the debate on the economic situation in the european union and to send the commission and the council the sort of message which the european parliament should send out as the parliamentary body elected by the people of the european union .
indeed , it is good to note that the forecast of 3 % growth for the year 2000 , which could have seemed rather bold when the commission announced it in november 1999 , now has a serious chance of being achieved , even in the context of continued inflation , since the peak of 2 % for the euro zone in january , nevertheless remains quite minor compared with the past .
in fact , the unification of monetary policies and the gradual alignment of other policies imposes additional inflexibility on the different countries in the euro zone by making them behave in ways that are not necessarily suited to their structures and to their respective economic circumstances .
if member states do not do anything about this , there will be even fewer means for care , education and other important public amenities in the future .
high unemployment in the european union concerns all of us , especially now that the downward trend does not seem to be persisting .
the very brave step taken by the reagan administration in the 80s showed how a dramatic reduction in the level of taxation , from 70 % to 28 % that is , was able to stabilise the usa ' s budget with lasting effect .
surveys carried out at european universities have shown that 60 % of students intend to seek work in the public sector and only 40 % in the private sector .
we need more competition in europe , particularly where the new technologies are concerned , so that objectives such as full employment and growth can be secured and sustained .
more flexible labour markets , new technologies , and securing market niches and better framework conditions for the establishment of innovative and creative enterprises , are all crucial to the european economy .
a first , yet crucial step , would be to bring about convergence in social policy .
this would include a benchmarking procedure , with the exchange of comparable data and a shift of emphasis from action plans to the fight against exclusion and poverty .
there is a need to evaluate the annual progress , or lack of it , made by member states in the fight against unemployment , and to take the necessary countermeasures .
the european parliament must have greater involvement in this process .
what we want , therefore , is for europe to enjoy economic growth , but also be prepared to address social issues .
in my view , it is simply not on to say that things are going well for europe when between 16 and 17 million europeans are without work .
europe therefore needs another type of policy , not an american-style policy in every respect but one which takes us away from welfare dependency , which gives people the opportunity of a good education suited to the new jobs in the market , which makes it easier to start up new companies , which improves the commercial climate and which ensures that new techniques and ideas are exploited to the full .
the rapporteur observes that stability is not an end in itself , which is something i agree with .
there is far too much talk about stability , convergence and coordination and far too little about the factors which give rise to innovation and development .
mr president , commissioner , i have the feeling that some of the previous speakers have not read the 1999 annual report on the union economy in its entirety and have made a conscious decision not to listen to my group ' s spokesman , karl von wogau , for the document that we are debating today , and which has had a report written on it , points to the fact that the introduction of the euro has been a success .
mr president , i would like to respond to you straightaway , mr karas .
we too are campaigning for and arguing in favour of the euro , but we want a social market economy and not a us-style market economy .
the commission has the cynicism to consider wage restraint as a positive factor , whereas in france alone , over three million workers receive a salary that is close to the poverty line and they barely survive any better than the other three million people kept unemployed by an insane economy .
what you have as a result are all these major trusts that cut jobs while their profits are high , and which often make staff redundant simply to make their share price rise on the stock market .
eleven thousand job losses at hoechst and rhone-poulenc , twenty two thousand at unilever , ten thousand at abb / alsthom power , not to mention all the others .
the key political divide has been very obviously stated this evening , and it is no surprise that this issue has polarised the debate in a house which is known for its consensus and its carve-out politics , and i am delighted to see this difference of opinion made so clear , because this report is a radical one .
this is the only way to go forward , because the real way to deliver social justice in europe - and after all that is what we are all here to do - is to deliver prosperity and opportunities and jobs .
this report signals very clearly the most effective way to do that , because europe has to wake up .
it cannot create jobs just by government spending .
it cannot create jobs by legislating to cut working hours , as if jobs were a cake that you carve up and divide between people .
and if europe wants to be left behind , left behind to stagnation and to unemployment and to statism and to corporatism , than yes , vote against this report tomorrow .
but if you want europe to go forward and to start delivering to the people of europe , then i would call upon you all to give your support to this report , because it will deliver those jobs , and it will deliver those opportunities , and it is the only way to do so .
mr president , the original version of the giorgos katiforis report had the great merit of making strong recommendations , based on the precise observations of the commission report on the economic situation in europe , for a european union strategy capable of giving continuity and stability to the sustainable development prospects emerging this year for all the countries of our continent .
these recommendations , which , for the most part , are consistent with the guidelines in the portuguese presidency ' s work programme and which will therefore be discussed at the lisbon summit , have been rejected or distorted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs of this parliament , by a majority which only managed to achieve a fragile unity in its rejection of the idea of a european union which is founded on the convergence of national policies and not just on the grouping together of markets .
mr president , i am certainly now unsure as to whether we have all read the same report .
you will find a clear statement to the effect that full employment is not one issue amongst many but the core issue of european economic policy .
now , finally , the eu ' s position is , of course , such that we can achieve high growth and seriously take up the fight against unemployment without jeopardising objectives such as price stability and a balanced budget .
i think that , in this way , the european parliament is excluding itself from the discussion at the very moment that an extremely interesting development is taking place in the european union where a very wide , socio-economic agenda is being drawn up much more clearly .
the portuguese presidency has submitted a wide agenda of this kind for the extra summit in lisbon .
the commission has done this in its five-year plan by listing one of the four priorities .
the commission document too , which is being drafted for the summit in lisbon , takes precisely such a wide approach which covers different areas .
there is no doubt that the hearings of experts and the debates in committee have provided us with additional high-quality information .
there is also no doubt that , throughout the debate this afternoon , we have heard differing opinions about the possible policies .
we all agree that the current economic conjuncture is good .
when we submitted our report , we referred to the risks posed by growth .
we basically highlighted the possibility of encountering difficulties in terms of growth in the usa , and therefore in other parts of the world , and of a sudden rise in inflation .
we all agree that , after a decade of very weak growth and intolerable unemployment , certain action must be taken .
our levels of research and development are too low compared with our competitors and our low level of employment reflects , among other factors , the imbalances in our labour market .
our aim must therefore be to make this reactivation of the economy long-lasting with strong growth and job creation .
this is not an expansionist policy in the sense of growth for growth ' s sake .
this has been the major victim in recent years and any improvements in public finances must lead to improvements in public investment .
our main support in the future must be for research and development and human capital .
this is the policy which the commission has defended and will continue to defend in lisbon .
with the review of the common fisheries policy due in 2002 , it is important that swift progress is now made .
the proposal also makes provision for member states to produce such data in aggregated form .
the implementing regulation will establish a minimum community programme and an extended community programme .
it appears that these programmes will not cover the whole range of potential data but will be selective , for example , by type of fish stock .
the proposal for the council decision allows for the making of the financial contribution by the community to member states engaged in the collection and management of data .
the original proposal simply allowed for the information being gathered to be transmitted to international organisations .
thus , amendment no 6 , while maintaining the freedom of member states to transmit the data to international organisations , requires that it also be sent annually to the commission .
this change is taken in conjunction with amendments nos 1 , 4 and 7 .
amendment no 1 clarifies the point that , although the data are to be scientifically based , they are being collected for wider decision-making purposes .
amendment no 4 makes it clear that the object of the exercise is the evaluation of fisheries resources generally .
amendment no 7 calls on the commission to report annually on the use it has made of the data collected under the regulation .
the other area of concern related to the range of data to be collected under the regulation .
first , in respect to economic data , amendment no 2 makes two changes .
one attempts to ensure that the data sought are no more detailed than necessary to serve the objective being pursued .
the other replaces a reference to income from sales and other revenue , subsidies , interest received , etc . , with a reference simply to volume of sales .
it is considered that without these changes undesirably high costs in the collection of data could be incurred in member states and that there could also be serious problems of confidentiality .
in conjunction with these changes , amendment no 5 deletes a reference to accounting headings accordingly .
amendment no 3 brings into the ambit of the current regulation data of the kind needed to monitor changes in aquatic ecosystems .
this will certainly facilitate the introduction of a new regulation concerning environmental data and may even render this unnecessary .
it should be stressed that the amendment does not in any way require the commission to include the collection of such data either under the minimum or the extended programmes it establishes .
as already stated the proposal for the council decision falls into two parts .
the first is concerned with financing the member states in implementing the community programmes .
there are some minor amendments : amendment no 2 aims to ensure that the financial contribution to member states can cover not only the costs of collection of data but also those of its management , compilation , aggregation , etc .
amendments nos 3 and 6 aim to smooth the timescale given that member states will have to wait until the implementing regulation is in place to know what the programmes actually involve ; and also to bring the timescale into line with the dates and the regulation .
amendments nos 4 and 5 aim to ensure that financial information is forwarded continuously to the budgetary authority .
more significantly , under amendment no 1 , the fisheries committee accepts the recommendation of the budgets committee that the funding should be placed under heading 1 ( b ) rather than heading 3 of the financial perspective .
although in its preliminary draft budget the commission entered the appropriations under heading 3 ' internal policies ' , parliament created a new budget line b1-500 to finance the measures under discussion .
the proposed exhaustive collection of data and the appropriate management of this data will be very valuable in helping to tackle the revision of the common fisheries policy in a more rigorous manner .
in view of this problem , which seems to me to be the most serious , the fisheries committee report improves the proposal in certain important points , particularly with the rapporteur ' s suggestion of more reasonable submission deadlines and the request for monitoring by the commission .
as a result , this report is very satisfactory and , on behalf of my group , i therefore ask for its approval .
over the years , the commission has provided the council and parliament with a steady stream of communications on the market situation for fisheries products .
the object of the exercise was to debate the future prospects of a sustainable european fisheries policy , or rather , to redetermine the content , with regard to production , trade , marketing and various other spheres .
the implementing regulation will clear a few matters up .
i welcome the establishment of a community framework for the collection and management of fisheries data which i believe is absolutely essential if we are to properly assess the level of stocks of the various species of fish .
it is important , of course , that the data is both of a biological and economic nature and the information to be provided from the various member states must be standardised across the community and , as stated by the rapporteur in her report , must be in compliance with international provisions .
i agree with the proposals that information provided to international organisations should also be made available to the commission .
i am pleased to confirm that in my country they are working to ensure that the detailed practicalities , the logistics and utilisation of information are developed in the best interests of the resource of the industry and decision makers and our group has no difficulty in supporting these reports .
but to enlighten the decision makers , let us practise honest science , without the ulterior motive of having the european union finance excuses to destroy our fishing boats .
instead of always following behind the united states , in seattle , in kosovo , in iraq , perhaps the europe of brussels could suggest , over and above the international fishing organisations that exist in the north atlantic , in the pacific , over and above the regulation of tuna , cod or other things , that europe should take the initiative and organise an international conference on fishing , a kind of montego bay of the fisheries resources which would be held between peruvians , japanese , canadians , russians , europeans , and we could manage the fisheries resources scientifically as an asset common to humanity .
mr president , commissioner , to be able to adopt a credible fisheries policy , the commission needs comprehensive and reliable data on fish stocks and fisheries fleets at its disposal .
the commission relies on the member states for the collation of this data .
the question , however , is whether or not the member states would be prepared , under this new regime , to make the necessary data available at the requested time .
further to the court of auditor ' s criticism , in january this parliament adopted my amendment to the cunha report with a large majority .
finally , radical decisions are sometimes mainly based on opinions presented by biologists .
furthermore , the commission must provide sufficient financial means for the inspection of stock levels .
i see the commissioner smiling but i speak with the authority of all the political parties in northern ireland , a diverse crowd but all agreed on this one issue .
as i have said all the northern ireland parties are united on this issue and those responsible for this cod quota regulation should reconsider this decision which can only spell not conservation for the fish but ruination to northern ireland fisheries which will affect all the fisheries of this union .
however , the fact that the updating and sending of data are purely optional and that this involves a very wide range of data and sectors may distort the final objective of the commission ' s proposal .
some have different sectors and , in view of the volume of data to be sent , could be prejudiced compared with those which have a smaller volume of data , if the same deadlines are set .
much of this data is confidential , as has also been mentioned , which could affect the competitiveness of the sectors involved and their enterprises .
we must therefore act very carefully in this area and guarantee the confidentiality of this data .
i regard it as a weakness in the proposal that reporting is not mandatory in all member states .
i cannot understand the proposal to make a regulation out of which it is possible for some member states to slip without any penalty and i cannot understand either that within a european union where we are only 50 % self-sufficient in fish for our domestic needs that there is any highly sensitive information , that by making the reports that are necessary that the national interest or the regional interest of some states or fishing communities is going to be put at risk .
in view of the coming review of the policy in 2002 it is important that we have all possible information , economic as well as biological .
in the past somebody said to me i have been defending the decisions the commission makes .
if we do not have this picture then it will not be possible to make reasonable decisions in two years ' time about the future of the policy .
mr president , commissioner , no one could dispute the usefulness of implementing the qualitative and quantitative data on the fishing industry , particularly in view of the reform of the cfp in 2002 .
a common fisheries policy must coordinate as well as possible the requirements for conservation of species and resource management with economic and market requirements .
however , we also expect there to be greater awareness and appreciation of the peculiarities , differences , varying situations and traditions of the fishing industries , and that they will not be disregarded , penalised or even eliminated due to the misinterpretation of the concept of harmonisation of fisheries policies , as has sometimes occurred in the past .
after years of the cfp for the mediterranean restricting itself to trade regulations and company aid , regulation 1626 at last introduced a responsible fisheries policy , with measures protecting vulnerable fishery resources in order to ensure sustainable exploitation .
the time period will elapse on 31 may next , to be precise , when the commission will present a proposal .
reliable and complete data are a fundamental prerequisite for credible fisheries management , still more so for creating what we constantly refer to as a level playing field .
however , i could only support the collection of data of this kind if a clear data framework was to be put in place first of all and , above all , if the necessary additional budgetary funds were to be made available .
i have the following to say to you on the subject of amendment no 6 , namely all recorded data to be automatically transmitted to the commission : the commission will automatically receive all the necessary data on request .
there is no point in setting up a central database in brussels when much of this data is needed for international meetings a long way from brussels .
i also agree with you that we should present our first report in good time after 2002 , against the background of the common fisheries policy .
it will need to be revisited in further detail in april , within the scope of the draft budget procedure for 2001 .
amendments nos 4 and 5 , according to which the commission is to transmit all financial , and also all situation reports produced by the member states , appear to me to be superfluous , for after all , we have given a commitment to prepare a report evaluating the measures adopted by the member states , and this report will contain an assessment of the entire data collection system .
the commission , in cooperation with the council , will see to it that a realistic schedule is established .
thank you very much , commissioner fischler .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
it sustains some 6 500 jobs and generates around eur 800 million annually .
the current directive prohibits the use of vaccination and requires that all fish in an affected farm be slaughtered whether affected by the disease or not .
the intention in adopting the current regime was to eradicate isa and to do so as quickly as possible .
this is a necessary change and should be accompanied by a commitment at european level to instigate and fund research into developing an effective vaccine .
the second proposed change would permit a phased withdrawal of fish from affected farms , working to a plan based on the severity of the problem in any particular farm .
this approach has been used very effectively in norway where new reports of isa are down to a handful of cases a year having peaked at some 80-90 cases per year in the early 1990s .
i therefore support the commission ' s proposed changes and i am calling for their urgent adoption and implementation .
i thank colleagues in the fisheries committee for their overwhelming vote in support of my report and i in particular thank my scottish colleagues in the committee for their input to this whole process .
most of their content is either unnecessary or already referred to in my text .
it is in all of our interests to ensure that in scotland too we contain isa and prevent its further spread .
last week saw the publication in scotland of a report by a joint government and industry working group on isa .
now , as he said , in excess of 85 000 tons of salmon is now produced in scottish fish farms in an industry which generates more than eur 800 million annually .
regrettably , although isa was first detected in scotland only two years ago , it has now spread to 29 farms directly and around 240 other farms are affected in some way or another .
so this report , mr president , provides an encouraging range of proposals for improving the way in which the authorities in the uk and elsewhere should respond to the disease .
by recommending the introduction of a method of containment and gradual culling , similar to the system used successfully in norway , the rapporteur seeks to introduce a more flexible approach to the disease which will provide confidence , not least to the insurance sector who have hitherto shied clear of providing any form of cover due to the insistence on a policy of compulsory slaughter .
by recommending the research , development and ultimate use of vaccination to control and eradicate isa , the rapporteur also provides comfort to the pharmaceutical industry who have hitherto had no incentive to invest in the development of a vaccine .
in recent research it is estimated that the industry is worth eur 800 million per annum and 6 500 jobs rely on its existence .
thirdly , referring to the earlier discussion on the collection of fisheries data , i very much hope that the commission will engage in projects and studies looking at aquaculture in the environmental context but i believe that is the way forward in relation to the environment , not the way that is suggested in amendments 7 to 13 , and i hope honourable members will reject them .
under the 1993 directive , not only the diseased fish can be culled but also the farmed fish where individuals are affected , exactly like the case when one cow is sick in a herd and the whole herd is culled according to the principle of precaution .
there is another risk to the environment as well , because this disease is transmitted to wild fish , as we have seen .
i would like to thank mr hudghton for his excellent report on isa and for broadly supporting the measures proposed by the commission and also for the contributions from each of the speakers this evening .
the commission proposal aims to ensure a more pragmatic approach towards controlling a disease that has the potential to cause important losses in salmon farms .
however , this cannot be allowed to compromise our objective of reducing and possibility eliminating isa .
nor can it be done , if the proposal involves a threat to public health .
the disease exists since 1984 and there is no report of it affecting human health or mammals .
the virus harms cold-blooded animals .
the commission ' s services are drawing up implementing rules in order to ensure the practical application of this instrument .
council decision 90 / 424 constitutes another instrument for community financial support in case of disease outbreaks .
this is in particular the case for amendments nos 3 and 5 .
the commission included in its proposal a possibility for vaccination of salmon .
you also referred to the need for further scientific research on the nature of the disease .
i will follow very closely the results of this research and take it fully into account in future legislative proposals .
in this context i am happy to partly accept amendment no 1 , taking into account , however , that scientific investigations are not done by the commission but that the commission relies on results of investigations carried out in the member states .
i also can partly accept the part of amendment no 6 saying that directive 93 / 53 should be amended as a result of scientific and technical evidence .
as i pointed out earlier , the available scientific evidence is that isa is not a threat to health .
i can therefore agree to amendment no 10 with the proviso that the words , and i quote , " of the highest possible standard " are replaced by " are safe " .
fish escapes from aquaculture premises have been reported in the past and the virus has been found in wild stocks .
in this context , a number of scientific questions that can only be resolved through further research remain open .
the procedures for setting additional control measures that already exist in community legislation will be used to establish withdrawal schemes based on the state of health of the fish in order to minimise a possible environmental impact .
i do not feel in a position to accept amendments nos 12 and 13 .
it is my feeling that these amendments aim to achieve a zero risk .
i look forward to parliament ' s own views on these amendments and will take careful note if you believe that such an approach is the best way forward .
i can partly accept amendment no 11 .
finally , i would like to emphasise that we continue to strive to maintain a high level of health protection in accordance with our obligations under the treaty .
i hope that in accepting our proposal the european parliament acknowledges our commitment and i would be very grateful for that .
thank you very much , commissioner byrne .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
by now , my colleagues in the fisheries committee and indeed in the parliament will be well aware of our commitment to technical conservation measures which are based on sound technical advice .
the body charged with giving this advice based on sound scientific data is the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna .
this intergovernmental fishery organisation of which the european union is a member is responsible for the conservation of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic and the adjacent seas including the mediterranean .
this body was established back in march 1969 and is formally obliged to meet biannually , however the norm is that it meets annually and takes its decisions on the basis of scientific advice .
these panels are powered to initiate regulatory measures on species covered by the convention .
iccat also made recommendations in 1974 , 1994 and 1996 .
at its recent meeting in november 1998 , the iccat standing committee on research and statistics was asked to perform a new assessment of the western atlantic and eastern atlantic and mediterranean bluefin tuna populations .
the measures agreed in november 1998 are binding since 21 june , i repeat 21 june 1999 , months before the communication was forwarded to the parliament ' s fisheries committee and 9 months almost to the date .
apparently , according to my information , the fisheries directorate-general sent a note last january to the trade directorate-general which is still on the preparatory work .
i do not suppose that anybody in this house would object to the principle of protecting juveniles of marine organisms .
the sheer volume of fish that are thrown back dead also means that any improvement in fisheries data is meaningless .
in february , commission regulation 394 / 2000 designed to protect irish sea cod stocks was issued .
it means that in fleetwood , 30 inshore boats are tied up until the end of april .
this also shows that our committee is in total agreement when it comes to supporting measures which aim to protect species , such as tuna in this case .
mr fischler , i am delighted that the commission responded favourably to our request in the last and constructive debate which we had on this issue and has asked to attend our next meeting this month to inform us about the future preparatory iccat meeting .
however , i must again congratulate our rapporteur , mr gallagher .
thank you very much , commissioner fischler .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
mr president , mr fischler , my report concerns the vital integration of environmental and fisheries issues , as discussed at the ministerial meeting in bergen .
the common fisheries policy is theoretically very demanding and very strict in this respect , perhaps more so than most people , both europeans and non-europeans , would believe .
the revision of the common fisheries policy in 2002 is the biggest time-limited challenge facing us .
i do not believe that the state of stocks and the current scandalous system of discards are a good example of the policy ' s effectiveness which must therefore , in my opinion , be significantly improved .
however , i will just remind you that the meeting in bergen showed very significantly that a proper policy on the sea must be created .
the oral question from our committee on the extremely serious consequences for fisheries of the accident involving the tanker erika will also be considered tomorrow .
but that is nothing new .
mr president , i too welcome your report mr varela suanzes-carpegna , for as far as i can see , we share the same opinion where progress in the protection of fish stocks and ecosystems in the north sea is concerned .
i would also like to remind you that similar measures had already been introduced for north sea herring prior to this , in cooperation with norway .
i am taking as read the fact that the implementation of the new regulation for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juvenile marine organisms as of 1 january this year will bring about a drastic improvement in the protection of juveniles , not just in the north sea but also in all the other community waters of the north-east atlantic .
as you can see , these measures ought to provide greater selectivity .
thank you very much , commissioner fischler .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
the overall strategy of the commission is to direct fisheries activities towards both economically and environmentally sustainable levels through management of the scarce resource in such a manner as to prevent its exhaustion through over-exploitation and / or environmental degradation .
in particular , the communication calls for control of fisheries pressure to benefit commercial stocks and marine aqua systems , improved measures for nature conservation in the marine environment , in the graded management of coastal areas , improved training , information transparency and a greater contribution from scientific research to fisheries management .
furthermore , the commission adopted an emergency regulation for a recovery plan for irish sea cod , effectively calling a halt to cod fishing in the irish sea between 14 february and 13 april due to the crisis in the species .
the first consideration must be to recognise that community legislation must be reinforced and control mechanism procedures enhanced .
thirdly , the european union should undertake to enhance its monitoring and prevention of extensive pollution prevalent in community waters and which is harmful to marine life including fishery resources .
a quota management system such as that existing in new zealand since 1986 is one possible alternative .
the property right that has been created in such a system is the right to fish - not the fish themselves .
such a market organisation can reap better long-term prospects for the fishing industry .
however , we should never blind ourselves to scientific research , we should never cease to gather information , we should never cease to explore improvements in existing systems and , if necessary , we should at least consider policy changes .
i recommend the report to the house .
the environment committee is generally pleased with the commission ' s communication and we are also pleased that the fisheries committee adopted all our amendments .
after all , the treaties have stipulated since 1992 that the precautionary principle and environmental protection should be integrated into community policies .
all the good policies and regulations in the world will not lead to conservation without an effective system to ensure that the rules are respected .
this is a good step forward , but as the commission and the fisheries committee continually point out , much improvement is needed in the control programmes of all member states .
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report .
according to these , for example , the meagre fisheries budget should have to finance artistic heritage or encourage tourism at sea .
as i have said many times before , the fisheries sector is more a victim than the cause of damage to the marine ecosystem and tomorrow we will be able to confirm this in the debate on the erika .
twenty million tonnes of unwanted catches are being thrown back .
the fleet must therefore use increasingly selective fishing gear .
this house has already indicated its opposition to driftnets and yet it is evident that certain countries are not only not respecting the undertaking to eliminate these nets but are increasing the number of vessels using these or simply not providing data given the passiveness of the national and community authorities .
we socialists consider that to defend the common fisheries policy is to defend a regulated and controlled fisheries sector .
we should therefore very carefully monitor pollution from industrial activity , but also from domestic activity .
the council of europe is coming before the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy on 22 march to speak about the research work that must be undertaken , particularly in the marine environment and , more precisely , the scientific and economic challenges of exploiting the oceans .
in effect , this practice is responsible for a high death rate and is therefore incompatible with good fisheries management .
the eu must develop conditions that will create a balance between environmental considerations and all other interests .
a reduction in the fishing capacity and in pressure from the fishing industry on fish stocks is not necessarily compatible with maintaining an outdated fleet and would limit modernisation .
in addition to providing more appropriate conditions of safety and hygiene , the use of more modern vessels could also contribute to reducing certain major factors .
secondly , it is true that a policy of preserving the marine environment must be practised both in community seas and in international waters or those belonging to third countries .
can i first of all congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report .
conservation is something that i hear on many occasions and a lot of people pay lip service to it .
in actual fact they have had a moratorium imposed upon them without any recompense , without any real negotiation or discussion .
now we all accept that there is a problem in conservation and a problem of stocks , but what i am really saying to you commissioner , and i have said this to you in the fisheries committee and i will say it to you again : there is a wide divide between brussels and the working fishermen .
and we have got to take on board the views of the fishermen .
short-term measures alone benefit neither the stocks nor the fishermen .
you also recommend extending coastal waters from a 12 to a 24 mile zone .
thank you very much , commissioner fischler .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
the regulation is based on the principle of universality and uniformity underlying the procedure .
for this reason , it is proposed in my report that in cases of this kind , when main proceedings are already under way , further proceedings in the form of concurrent proceedings should only be permitted with the consent of the administrator of the main proceedings .
this qualification would constitute another important step in the direction of a closed , uniform , european legal system .
i believe parliament should shift its emphasis here and would therefore urge those who have tabled amendments on this point to give it further thought .
this regulation lays down all conflict of law provisions in insolvency law in a compact , conclusive and binding manner , as a european legal norm , whilst upholding national systems of law in the matter .
hence i would urge the council to adopt the regulation as quickly as possible , taking parliament ' s proposals into account .
mr president , i think we all agree that a european legal area must be created .
we therefore all agree on the established facts , and the draft regulation and the report are going in the right direction .
the first is to establish equivalence , saying : in the final analysis , bankruptcy in france is the same thing as bankruptcy in england or in germany .
the second way is to recreate a law ex nihilo , that is to say , to harmonise the systems and completely overhaul all the concepts and legal systems in each of the member states .
but at this stage i should like to make an observation , which is not technical , but more philosophical and taken from practice .
and i believe that it is our responsibility , in an ever more rapidly moving economy , where everyone must have a real opportunity , to give people the chance of running a commercial enterprise , and a second and a third chance , if necessary .
one of the reasons that explains the difference in competitiveness between the european area , for example and the united states , is precisely this ability of bouncing back that exists on the other side of the atlantic and that we just do not have here .
as you all know , this convention was the result of many years of discussion , which was often difficult and often laborious , and that for this very reason , it represents a compromise between unitary and territorial principles , that is to say , the structural principles of the different legal insolvency proceedings in each of our member states .
this is why it is important to try to find a legal frame of reference which can adapt to the new requirements of a global economy .
it was not the commission that presented the present proposal for a regulation but two member states , germany and finland , by means of a joint initiative under the right of initiative which member states share with the commission on such issues .
as far back as 1981 , the commission had already stated its position in favour of clearly adopting the principle of unitary insolvency proceedings .
furthermore , this view was accepted in the commission ' s proposals on a parallel procedure concerning the liquidation of businesses .
the commission feels , for this reason too , that it should not present a modified proposal for amendments to the regulation , but i would nevertheless like to convey to you the commission ' s opinions on the amendments under discussion .
the commission therefore accepts amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 and 5 proposed by the rapporteur , mr lechner .
indeed , the commission feels that parliament should instead support amendment no 4 by the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , which would allow the annexes to the regulation to be modified by the commission , assisted by a regulatory committee , in accordance with the on-going procedure of article 5 of decision 1999 / 468 / ec .
with regard to the centre of main interests of a company or of a legal person , this idea is clearly defined in article 3 .
in all other cases that have not been specifically addressed , we feel that the reference made in recital 13 should be sufficient .
thank you very much , commissioner vitorino .
the debate is closed .
secondly , we must focus today on one specific aspect of this terrible environmental disaster , namely its effect on the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected regions .
the disaster off the coast of brittany is truly enormous in scale .
as this house indicated in its first resolution on 20 january , the needs of the severely affected fisheries , ostreiculture and tourism industries must be taken into account .
mr president , over two months after the wreck of the erika , pollution of the coasts , which have already been cleaned once , is still continuing .
thanks to the grass-roots involvement , which this house furthered by organising a debate and adopting a resolution on 20 january , an initial raft of measures has been announced .
so , yes , total fina must provide the financial resources to contribute to the repair of ecological , economic and social damage and to compensate the people affected by the disaster .
mr president , the reason why it is important to return to the subject of the oil slick , two and a half months after the wreck of the erika , is because the extent of the economic , social and ecological disaster affecting our atlantic coastline is , in fact , far greater than the first assessments gave us to understand .
the ecological disaster is a major one , possibly unprecedented in scale .
some of them have already lost several years ' worth of harvests , but the 50 % to 80 % slump in sales is affecting all the harbours on the atlantic coastline , and even those in the channel and north sea .
the two principle resources of the atlantic shore , fishing and tourism , both closely interrelated , have both been seriously affected .
the first point is that the polluter must accept his liability in full .
the second principle is the ' polluter pays ' principle .
our resolution calls upon the commission to take the necessary steps to assist in repairing the damage caused in the fishing industry affected by the consequences of the disaster .
the polluter pays principle must be applied consistently .
confronted with this situation , the inhabitants of brittany , the vendee and charente , as well as the forestry workers in other regions , await a signal from the european union .
in the case of the erika , the local fishing and aquaculture industries have suffered a bitter blow and it is important not just to look at the harmful effects that are apparent today but also to look ahead at the long-term detrimental effects of oil pollution .
mr president , today , once again , it is necessary to discuss the erika disaster , two and a half months after it occurred , because its tragic consequences are far from over .
i hope that the commission will adopt these proposals before the end of march , for this will enable us to make progress on the preventative measures front .
these measures are very welcome and the committee on fisheries will monitor these very closely so that we do not have to spend more time in this house regretting such disasters .
the debate is closed .
i refer to article 38 of the territorial requirement which restricts the scope to the territory of the state of israel and thus does not grant special customs arrangements for products coming from the territories which were occupied by israeli armed forces in june 1967 and upon which , in breach of all the international rules , from the fourth geneva convention onwards , the different israeli governments have built settlements , confiscating palestinian land and water and installing their own people .
israel can be certain that europe is in favour of its security and stability , but it cannot ask us to be party to such grave violations .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the questions you put to the commission , mrs morgantini , concern possible illegal exports to the european community from israeli settlements or from the occupied territories benefiting from preferential treatment , and which therefore cast doubt on whether the rules on preferential origin are being properly applied .
president arafat accepted this proposal at a meeting on 24 january with commissioner patten .
furthermore , exports from the territory of the state of israel and the current palestinian territories to the european union receive preferential treatment from the european union .
therefore , it would make good sense now for israel to guarantee the legally irreproachable application of this concrete preferential arrangement on its national territory , and for the palestinians to do the same in respect of their interim territory .
ultimately , all producers , be they israeli or palestinian , should be afforded easier access to the european union market once the territorial issues have been conclusively resolved , which will come step-by-step with the construction of a future palestinian state .
some might therefore consider it reasonable to argue that , since the irregular exports to europe from the israeli settlements in the occupied territories are not regarded as a priority political problem , these should be halted until a final peace agreement is achieved .
mr president , commissioner , since the signing of the oslo agreements in 1995 , israeli-palestinian relations have entered a new phase , which should lead to a fair and lasting peace between partners which respect each other .
the union has played an invaluable part in this process , in its capacity as the primary source of economic aid to the region .
the main reason for the problems of implementing trade agreements between the european union and israel , as has already been said , is the intractable problem of frontiers .
mr president , commissioner , the peace process in the middle east is an extremely delicate matter .
it will only be possible for the exact borders of the state of israel , the only democracy in that region , to be universally recognised once these negotiations have proved to be a success .
firstly , despite the current difficulties which we saw for ourselves in situ , we must repeat our support for the direct dialogue between the israeli government and the palestinian authority which is producing a fair , stable and definitive peace agreement .
secondly , it is in the interests of both parties to ensure the economic development of the region and to take decisive action to reduce the serious imbalances in the distribution of wealth in the area .
thirdly and finally , perhaps the commission could bear in mind the usefulness of participating in the work of a tripartite working group , naturally involving the european union , to guarantee compliance with trade agreements and to ensure progress in the assistance offered by the european union to all the parties concerned .
seen in this perspective , this initiative should also be viewed as positive , and as an initiative intended to further the middle east peace process .
we are major donors but we have , unfortunately been marginalised in terms of policy and political influence for too long in the middle east and we can contribute positively , as many speakers have said today , just as we did in the case of northern ireland .
goods do flow freely from these territories , goods produced in israeli settlements in the occupied territories .
anything liable to separate the two economies would have a serious effect on cooperation between israel and palestine , including joint ventures , palestinian sub-contractors and exporters .
this would constitute an important and practical contribution on our part towards facilitating cooperation between israel and its immediate environs .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would first like to thank all of you who have taken part in this debate for the excellent , valuable contributions you have made , as we are addressing an issue which is undoubtedly very sensitive politically speaking .
the commission is also aware that the political importance attributed to the peace process by the european union is reflected in parliament and in the commission , as has been said here by various members and is a result of the recent visit to the region by president nicole fontaine as well as president romano prodi ' s very recent visit last week .
the truth of the situation is that the approach adopted by the commission on this subject is to seek to obtain the support and agreement of all parties involved in the process .
this proposal for a council regulation is the first in a series which will make it possible to draw up this reform .
the text of the proposal for a regulation has been amended quite extensively in the committee on fisheries .
all the members of our group voted in favour of these amendments , both in committee and in parliament .
amendment no 1 serves to clarify the text considerably .
let us not forget that in the administration of a common fisheries policy the statistical analysis used must include the social aspect .
amendment no 3 makes it possible to add an important aspect : the collection of environmental data .
amendment no 4 specifies the obligation upon scientists to process all the data and pass it on to the relevant authorities , including national and regional authorities , in order to contribute to the decision-making process .
amendment no 5 serves to mitigate the commission proposal .
effectively , the information requested from the authorities must be reasonable in order to allow an operational overview of fishing activities without compromising essential rights to confidentiality , for example , in fiscal matters , where the community has no jurisdiction .
amendment no 6 is intended to tighten up the commission ' s participation in the inspection procedure .
it is , however , recognised that other species such as trout , eels or herring , may be carriers of the virus without being affected by it .
the disease was detected in norway in 1984 and also in canada ( 1996 ) .
the virus does not survive at a temperature of more than 26 c , and is therefore not dangerous to humans .
today , 240 salmon farms are affected by isa .
it is therefore essential to contain this disease and prevent it spreading to all the aquacultural establishments in the various member sates of the european union .
the usefulness of this proposal is limited , to say the least , certainly in the short term .
resolution on women in decision making ( b5-0180 / 2000 ) my group abstained in the resolution on women in decision making , much to our regret .
in 1994 , the green group was the first group in this parliament to have a majority of women in it , the greens were the first group to have a woman secretary-general in dominique voinet , now the french environment minister , and the german greens were the first political party to operate gender parity in order to redress the overall under-representation of women in political institutions .
the resolution makes clear there is a need for a proportional system that gives form to women ' s representation and that all political parties must take action .
it gives political parties an important role in building a democratic europe .
i do not know if there is some cause-and-effect at work here , but the fact is that the proportion of female members in the european parliament went from 25.7 % in 1994 to 29.9 % in 1999 .
moreover , this parliament has had a woman president since the 1999 elections .
nevertheless , we recognise that the experience in all member sates is not the same and some recourse to such measures may be justified , as a temporary remedy , to rebalance female representation where women are grossly under-represented .
we are opposed to the idea that the biological differences between men and women should give rise to two different world views and two different value systems .
katiforis report ( a5-0041 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the katiforis report on the european union economy in 1999 to toe the group line , and also because it reveals an extremely serious deficiency which i hope it will contribute to eliminating during the next few years .
the free-marketeering right ' s rejection of the proposed amendments leads us , therefore , to vote against the resolution . - ( sv ) we have chosen to abstain in the vote on amendment 4 to the katiforis report on the eu economy ( 1999 ) .
joint resolution on the shipwreck of the ( rc b5-0181 / 2000 ) mr president , we voted in favour of the resolution on the wreck of the erika out of solidarity with the victims of this ecological disaster .
confining oneself to deploring the disaster and expressing sympathy for its victims without applying some restraining measures in order to oblige total to make good all the direct and indirect consequences of the pollution for which it is entirely responsible is tantamount to doing nothing .
it takes far better account than our previous resolution of the extent of the disaster , which every day seems to get far worse than anticipated on first analysis and is becoming more exacting , clearer and more urgent .
regarding the compensation system , the citizens are anxious because fipol ' s initial compensation payments to victims have been limited to 25 % .
finally , our resolution clearly stipulates that it is absolutely essential , in matters of maritime safety , to break out of this downward spiral of widespread irresponsibility , this pernicious system of mutual paralysis wherein states dump responsibility onto the union , and the union dumps it on the states , and in the end , the polluters are the only winners .
we must , and shall , remain particularly vigilant in the months to come in order to ensure that the victims who bear none of the responsibility whatsoever for this disaster receive compensation in full from the polluter , and to ensure that this time we do in fact learn the lessons from the oil slick in terms of maritime safety , so that polluters are deterred once and for all from gambling with the lives of our coastal populations .
katiforis report ( a5-0017 / 2000 ) we agree that the fishing industry has the most to gain from promoting respect for the marine environment .
in its communication , however , at the same time the commission specifies that it is not in a position to ensure that this legislation is complied with .
transhipment has become common practice and frequently fish products from one member state which cannot be sold within the union due to exceeding the tac are sold as imported products or as originating from another member state .
the latter occurs very frequently in businesses whose capital came from a member state other than the flag state of the fishing vessel ( this is actually a way of concealing ' quota-hopping ' ) .
the members of the union for a europe of nations group shall therefore be voting against this report which does not go into details of the deficiencies of the commission communication and increases natura 2000 constraints upon the fisheries sector .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 2 march 2000 .
madam president , i would like to talk about a quite different matter , which concerns iran .
thank you , mr blak .
as you can see , mrs banotti , you still have your work cut out for you .
i too would like to say thank you for the fact that here we can watch a finnish television channel .
then i would like to say thank you for the fact that we have got cold water in the taps .
thank you , mr seppanen .
special european council ( 23-24 march 2000 in lisbon ) the next items are the council and commission statements on the special european council in lisbon , which is to be held on 23 and 24 march .
and it is true that in the united states of america , venture capital works much more effectively than it does in the european union , even today .
according to the german philosopher habermas ' s concept of democracy , there is a communication flow between political society and civil society , which is essential to the decision-making process in a modern democracy , and although it may work well in each of our countries , we must admit that it does not yet work well in the eu as a whole .
there is , however , also a strategic deficit as regards the major economic and social issues .
there must be a european commitment to establishing conditions for a genuine venture capital market which can in particular support small businesses which have come into existence as a result of the technologies of the future .
what is particularly crucial here is the commission ' s action plan for venture capital and the excellent work currently being done by the european investment bank for the lisbon summit .
i would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the initiatives the commission has prepared on the subject of business policy and innovation policy , which seek to create a framework for coordinating our action in the member states and between member states and the european institutions .
i would like to mention what i think is perhaps the most relevant issue for the future , and that is the issue of lifelong learning as the fundamental basis for social transformation and as a prerequisite for a new stage in social dialogue , that is in dialogue between europe ' s social partners .
so there is a political deficit , a strategic deficit , and also a deficit in the coordination of our policies and measures .
secondly , we want to supplement them with fundamental new approaches , such as those relating to the information society , and to the knowledge-based economy , and also those relating to the modernisation of social protection and to combating social exclusion .
this will depend on us , on whether we are able to boost the economic growth of the european system sufficiently , on the extent to which we are able to generate employment , on the level of education of our citizens and on the training we give our workers .
the challenges awaiting us in lisbon are therefore very simple : we must meet the challenge of technology by regaining lost ground in the areas of knowledge and technical skills , especially retraining technologies .
human resources mean education , training and reform of the welfare state in order to deal , in particular , with the problem of an ageing society .
to achieve results , we need a new method , and , as the portuguese prime minister said in his speech , clear macroeconomic parameters for this activity .
the processes which have been put in place , by common agreement , to improve levels of employment , boost economic renewal and increase social cohesion within the territory of the union are extremely important .
we have to consider in particular the future creation and maintenance of resources in promising sectors in terms of employment .
the modernisation of the european social model and its increased effectiveness are as important for our competitiveness as the corresponding modernisation of the economy .
it will be difficult to conduct a sober policy , one that produces results only very slowly , which must be implemented here and now , if we are presenting the citizens of europe with such a picture of the future as this , while they themselves fear for their jobs .
with regard to the content of his speech , i must say that my group identifies very closely with his confirmation of the fundamental values of the european union .
mr president-in-office , all democratic systems have deficits , but you are right to point out that we are currently at the beginning , under the portuguese presidency , of an intergovernmental conference aimed at reforming the treaties .
this is an affront to individual and collective dignity and it gives us at least 15 million reasons why we should carry on with the project that you have highlighted here today , mr prime minister .
the potential is clear : if the european union , today , in its member states , were to attain the best practice already achieved by its existing states and by its competitors we would have 30 million more jobs , twice as many as are currently unemployed .
the task of lisbon has been correctly identified by you , prime minister , and by president prodi as no less than shifting european policy towards a new practice , towards a new paradigm .
the lisbon challenge is to delineate policy and methods for redressing these deficiencies and to release this potential dynamic .
mr baron crespo has described it as a social democrat project .
but for too many of the excluded and the long-term unemployed , the young , women and other marginalised groups , passive welfare dependency is not enough .
what we have to do is release this new dynamic at individual level by saying the resources are there , even within the framework of sound finance .
we can best guarantee the fight against unemployment and encourage social cohesion in europe through having an employment-rich economy and through having sustainable models of welfare .
finally , on the knowledge society , it is very clear that we need to convert our thinking , not just at a technological but also at a social level .
it is very clear that we need to convert old social spending methods into new economic and social opportunity .
if lisbon can meet the targets spoken of here today , it will be an important step on that road to releasing the dynamic to which i have referred .
we would also like to believe , along with yourselves , that there is generally a clear awareness that the scale of the changes that must be envisaged in terms of the qualifications needed to address the new technological challenges facing companies itself brings with it the inherent risk of creating new mechanisms for social exclusion , to cite you once more .
we know that over half the jobs currently being created in the european union are precarious , temporary or perforce part-time , and as a result provide the employee with neither the conditions for self-reliance nor , very often , an income that offers them a decent standard of living .
we know that new technologies do not , in themselves , generate greater democracy , but simply greater collective and personal autonomy for those citizens who are better integrated into mainstream society .
lastly , we know that anyone who claims to meet the needs of the citizens must first ensure their total involvement in public policy decisions .
we have heard nothing about support being provided to all practical trials involving the public-minded use of new information technologies by the general public , nor about the role of associations for learning and information being promoted for all sectors of society .
we have heard nothing about the possibility of public funds being freed up to promote innovation in the field of products and services liable to improve the quality of life for all .
we have heard nothing about the universal telecommunications service being redefined in order to make it possible for everyone to access the internet under the best possible technical conditions and at affordable rates .
in short , we have heard nothing to suggest that the citizen will be anything more than a customer .
we can find nothing in the document from the portuguese presidency , nor in the commission ' s strategic guidelines for 2000 , that reveals the slightest trace of a legislative programme in the field of social policy , be this to bolster the rights of employees threatened with redundancy or to prevent social dumping .
we can but share the concern of the council and the commission to see the european union , after the single market and after the euro , finally equipping itself with a political project that is accessible to all its citizens , but the new governance of which you are - in my opinion unfairly - priding yourselves lacks the democratic and participatory ambition to which nascent european civil society aspires .
madam president , mr president-in-office and prime minister of portugal , the current situation in the union and in most of the member states is bound to raise legitimate concerns , in spite of the overall economic recovery .
it is our opinion that it is not only necessary to change this state of affairs , but that it is also possible to do so .
it is necessary because employment , and i mean quality employment with employee rights , is a fundamental right of every human being .
an appeal for the coordination of social policies or an insistence on a society based on innovation and knowledge or on information technology will therefore not be enough , however important they may be .
we reached joint conclusions on 14 points , of which we will officially inform the presidency .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , mr president-in-office of the council and prime minister of portugal , as we have been paying close attention to employment-related issues , we must note the portuguese presidency ' s initiative to put the future of the european social model on the european political agenda once again .
nevertheless , before i discuss this matter , i would like to mention some aspects of the path that europe has already taken over the last ten years , so that we can approach the next ten years in a realistic way , as the portuguese presidency has proposed .
around ten years ago , when the single currency and nominal convergence were being discussed , some people , in various decision-making and discussion forums , warned of the need to give priority to the issues of employment , the real convergence of economies , and economic and social cohesion .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i have carefully read the portuguese presidency ' s document for the lisbon summit , which goes far beyond employment issues and which trumpets an information society and social cohesion .
we are not , of course , questioning the strategic objective of making europe into a world-class economic area based on innovation and knowledge , a more dynamic and more competitive area , with a view to increasing economic growth rates , with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion .
on the other hand , i would also like to say quite clearly that we support the european social model as opposed to certain other social models from around the world , but we support it on the assumption that it remains to be perfected and implemented in a participatory way .
as long as there are rates of unemployment in double figures , or genuine pockets of hidden unemployment in the eu , the real europe has not yet been built .
whilst there are such disparities between the quality of social protection systems and particularly the retirement pensions of one member state in relation to those of another member state of the european union , the real europe has not yet been built .
lastly , until we have real convergence , until economic and social cohesion is a reality for everyone and until the european social model is developed , the real europe , madam president , ladies and gentlemen , has not yet been built .
but we must surely oppose some of your policies , some of your principles , and a certain economic fundamentalism .
i must at this point stress our conviction that there can be no social policy nor full employment policy without national and european preferences , and without protecting our markets from fierce international competition .
you are facilitating it , collaborating with it , and are in fact orchestrating , despite your declared intentions , the disintegration of our social welfare systems , precariousness , and social decline .
there is no requirement that unemployment should be below 5 % or - better still - below 2 or 1 % .
my group hopes that danish voters will decide to keep the danish krone when they take part in the referendum on membership of emu on 28 september of this year .
the question that i would like to ask very clearly is this : are you representing 14 eu countries here or 15 ?
from this point of view , this question is perfectly sensible and requires the clearest possible answer .
this is not the first time during the portuguese presidency that there has been a different and politically stimulating relationship between the council and parliament , but this is a significant gesture which , as my friend and colleague mr baron crespo noted , we were delighted to note .
my congratulations , mr president-in-office , for making this issue topical once again without rejecting social cohesion and values which we hold to be fundamental , because they are not only at the heart of the founding project of the eu , but they are at the heart of our civilisation and , above all , of our understanding of the need for solidarity between all europeans .
something that we said here in january and that i would like to repeat is that we must not be satisfied with this strategic objective being the priority of one presidency , a priority for just six months .
we challenge the council and the commission once again to include it , not as a priority for six months , but as a goal for the eu , as important as the goal of enlarging or deepening the european union .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , i should like to express my delight at the fact that a bullish agenda has been set for the issues of employment and economic development at the lisbon summit .
a joint effort is needed to strengthen research and development , including research in connection with information technology , and there is a need to strengthen the internal market and to create the necessary conditions for receiving the full benefits from the new technology and for developing trade via the internet .
i would say that it is important that we should aim to achieve common objectives , but that it is also important that individual countries should retain their responsibility for , and sovereignty in , establishing social and employment policy and that we should have a certain degree of competition between systems so as to ensure that social and employment policy is shaped in a progressive and dynamic way .
the result is sobering .
the growth in media , mobile radio communication and software was not able to compensate for the job losses in the telecommunications sector and in the electronics industry , and for the rationalisation resulting from the introduction of information technology in other sectors of the economy .
mr president , the european leaders will be primarily addressing three key issues when they meet in portugal later this month .
however , the arrival of globalisation will not and must not mean absolute and free market access for all products and services operating at this time .
it is clear that each country has different priorities in terms of the different economic sectors it wishes to protect .
the european union as an economic entity is very strong but there are still large-scale social problems which need to be addressed in a structured manner .
mr president , prime minister guterres has been most convincing .
the most minor of accidents is depicted as an irreparable ecological disaster .
i am not making the case against stability policies nor against necessary structural reforms .
mr president , i should like to thank prime minister guterres for his very committed speech .
i want to end by saying that social cohesion is to be created both in the individual countries and in europe as a whole , but that this will not be achieved if the individual countries do not continue to be cohesive within themselves for many years to come .
the right to data protection does not appear in the euro paper nor is it part of the current debate on e-commerce .
if we wish to remain credible in developing a european charter of fundamental rights then the fundamental right to privacy must of course be included in each of our individual programmes , in particular where new technologies are concerned .
mr president , the agenda for the lisbon council , which is to be held on 23 and 24 match , is liable to induce dizziness .
the conclusion of the document issued by the presidency on 12 january holds the key .
we must revise the broad guidelines of our economic policies - which at present only have the status of an annual recommendation from the council to the member states - with a view to amplifying their scope and above all , consolidating their status as a ' framework document ' .
mr president , mr president-in-office , ladies and gentlemen , in the speeches which we have heard a noble aim has been mentioned , that of we europeans becoming competitive with the united states , of developing ourselves into equal partners with the united states .
if , on the other hand , we look , for example , at the issue of filling top posts - when it is a question of finding a new managing director of the international monetary fund - and see how the europeans behave towards the americans , then without a doubt we are still a very long way from this equal partnership .
we have banned them here in the chamber , rightly , because they are instruments of torment .
establishing additional rigid rules - such as , for example , introducing a rigid 35-hour week in france - can , i admit , create jobs in the short term , but i am convinced that in the long term it damages our competitiveness and thus destroys jobs .
in europe we are also still a long way from a common domestic market .
we have 15 domestic markets and a common european internal market .
there are many challenges involved with creating that full employment .
some of those challenges will be very difficult to overcome , but the important thing is that we have to turn the rhetoric of what we have been saying for many , many years - about full employment , about a socially inclusive society , about a society that is based on innovation and knowledge - into reality .
but this is important if we are to have a genuine achievable outcome from this lisbon summit rather than perhaps setting off down another road - a road which i know prime minister gutierrez does not want to embark on , because he actually wants to see something achieved in the process of the lisbon summit .
mr president , while the heads of state of the european union are preparing for their meeting in lisbon , where they will discuss employment , economic reform and social cohesion , abb / alsthom , a european cartel if ever there was one , has revealed in no uncertain terms the truth that hides behind the empty words uttered by policy-makers .
i welcome the emphasis on bolstering research and development in europe , on developing content industries and on speeding up broad-band networks with all that is involved as part of working towards a knowledge society .
we live in the time of idea - the internet digital electronic age .
but i welcome the fact that this summit is aiming also at a wider emphasis on reforms of our economies in europe to improve competitiveness and innovation .
one of the priorities which has been identified under the cardiff process is to improve the sensitivity of the financial markets to the value of intangible investments and investments in knowledge .
the aim of full employment cannot be achieved by economic policy alone .
i think that the special summit in lisbon will herald responsible economic planning in the european union .
mr president , prime minister , president of the commission , the portuguese presidency has presented an ambitious programme for the special summit .
in this context the ciampi group also mentions the european company statute .
it puts the loss to the economy of not having a statute of this kind at eur 30 billion a year .
the straitjacket of agenda 2000 will not provide you with the requisite means .
the public services have played a key role throughout the entire existence of our european social model .
lastly , this knowledge society hinges on research and development and i would like to applaud , at this juncture , the commission initiative that aims to create a european research area .
mr president , the commission and parliament will nevertheless have need of the council in order to secure the requisite resources to create this european research area .
i believe that the proposals you will put forward in lisbon , which should help to merge these infamous broad economic policy guidelines , these ' employment ' guidelines , to form guidelines for the european policy on growth and employment , mark a step in the right direction .
it is up to each and every one of us to work on this .
one can but welcome the ambitious objective which you have set , within the ten-year strategy you propose , of lifting the taboo on the notion of full employment in the european union , and of providing us with the means to do so by setting a quantified target of 3 % growth .
but over and above that , as regards your objective of a knowledge economy , claude desama has just spoken of the contribution that public services can make to attaining this objective , although i myself would stress the importance of a strategy for lifelong learning .
lastly , a final word on social cohesion .
we will offer you our support in lisbon in laying down new guidelines for the european union ' s economic policy .
mr president , along with my colleagues , i would like to welcome the very clear document that the portuguese presidency has given us today .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , it is , i think , thanks to your and the commission ' s commitment that the lisbon summit can finally prove to be an ambitious and social summit where the european social model is at long last seen as a new driving force behind european integration and where full employment can become a concrete goal .
but if lisbon wants to become the summit of these political ambitions , it must also take on board methodology .
i would like to draw your attention to three points , in particular , which seem essential to me if this summit wants to succeed as a major social summit .
secondly , i would very much like to second your commitment to lay down clear objectives , regarding both economic growth and the level of employment .
i think it is important to formulate an objective in this respect , mr president-in-office , that is to say to challenge all member states to stamp out social exclusion of all citizens in our society , not only children , but also their parents and the elderly .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , the special european council in lisbon on employment , economic reform and social cohesion is to pursue , as you have told us , an objective which is ambitious , very ambitious , at the risk of disappointing our fellow citizens , conscious as they are that decreeing full employment and the eradication of poverty in europe cannot , in itself , ensure that this objective is attained .
but , when all is said and done , this summit will have a major benefit - that of outlining , in the wake of cardiff and luxembourg , a political desire for greater social cohesion , particularly as regards the 57 million people who are living in a state of poverty within the union , including single mothers , large families and children , and whose numbers will in the future be swelled by other outcasts from society , specifically those people who will not have access to new areas of knowledge , since this will engender new social imbalances .
mr president , there is an idea in the portuguese presidency 's statement which i like very much .
this idea is the notion that the strength of our european economy is rooted in the capabilities , imagination and creativity - quite simply in the knowledge - of the people in the european economic process .
if we are to take this seriously , however , if the intention is for this really to become a political programme , then no additional justification is required for a policy of social inclusion , because participation in society would in itself be the strongest productive force in our shared economy .
i wish you much strength , pledge parliament 's support and assure you that this parliament will have more to say on the issues of economic and employment policy in the future , as the people of europe also expect .
it is clear that we must redefine the role of europe in the world economy , creating a competitive europe , opening the way to new and better jobs and organising this process with an appropriate strategy for social cohesion .
the central role of employment and social policy , in the creation of this new society , is based on two factors .
on the one hand we have economic efficiency , since , in this new technological context , the quality of human resources is essential .
it has to be done thinking of the men and women who live and work daily in our countries .
the special lisbon summit must fundamentally reaffirm , for the european citizen , the notion that the european union still believes in the idea of a society which favours inclusion and social cohesion .
we need a greater sense of responsibility and greater participation from our social partners - new actors , as the pintassilgo report calls them - so that we can implement employment agreements and achieve competitiveness in business .
it seems to me , mr president , that this is probably the case because we europeans see europe as somewhat removed from our more immediate concerns and interests .
all of this will lead us to the need to define the role of europe in the world economy , of europe as a competitive platform - and i stress ' competitive ' - opening the way to new and better jobs , higher quality jobs from the point of view , of course , of guaranteeing social cohesion .
social risks , social breakdown , unemployment , social exclusion , imbalances in the social security systems , are unavoidable challenges presented by globalisation , technological change and an ageing population .
of course , today ' s europe has organised institutional procedures for developing these policies , to create an economy , and above all a society , based on innovation and knowledge , by means of a european policy on the information and knowledge-based society , the construction of an educational society on a european scale and the development of a european area of science and technology open to the world .
i would like to draw your attention to three specific points .
the first point concerns corporate governance .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , there has already been a great deal of discussion , and i hope that i will not repeat any of what has gone before .
i would , however , like to thank the portuguese presidency most heartily for the document presented and for the excellent address given by the president-in-office of the council .
however , this is the first time in many years that a strategic objective has been put forward , and i feel that it is extremely important : to transform the union into an economic area based on innovation and knowledge , in order to boost economic growth , achieve full employment in proper jobs and bring about social cohesion .
the fact that parliament has a crucial role to play in this is also important .
my second example is this : a great deal has been said about the participation of women in the labour market and about equal opportunities for women and men in society in general .
practical measures relating to what i spoke about earlier - a common goal for support services for families and particularly for children - are a key factor in creating jobs and at the same time creating equal opportunities and ensuring much greater participation by women in the labour market .
obviously , in order to achieve this , there are two issues which are crucial in all areas .
lastly , i would like to answer a question that i have been asked , which is whether i am speaking here on behalf of 15 or 14 countries .
this does not prevent the portuguese government , and many other european governments , from being not so much in dispute with a particular country , as being engaged in a battle to preserve certain principles and values .
strangely enough , these very principles and values existed even before political movements such as the social democrats and the christian democrats .
it is not yet single because of the delays in public and private services ; it is not single because of the delays in achieving transparency and in introducing the use of modern technologies to make the markets fully functional in terms of information technology and , therefore , in terms of efficiency .
now then , we have to increase productivity in these areas sufficiently to sustain economic growth without inflation .
we may be breaking this debate on lisbon down into constituent parts , but we have a clear objective constantly in mind : we have to create the economic and social conditions needed for sustained growth .
i warn you that here our direct , and i stress , direct commitment at public and the other different levels is to build telecommunications highways , the roads for these new vehicles to run on .
the market , private individuals and companies will build the vehicles , but it is our responsibility to build the new highways .
there is therefore a very clear strategy for lisbon .
it is clear that , at this point , the three processes have to be combined .
rapporteur . ( sv ) mr president , ever since the brundtland report of 1987 , it has been clear that a policy which emphasises only economic growth cannot be sustained in the longer term .
the challenge for us all consists in integrating social and environmental considerations .
this is something we ought to support , a fact which also emerges from amendment no 11 .
as regards this regulation on the environmental dimension in the development process in developing countries , the council has broadly taken up the amendments that we presented and voted upon at first reading .
whenever i have been involved in development work i have observed that this approach has , thankfully , over the past few years been taking the place of the old paternalistic aid-oriented ideology , where the so-called developed countries thought development was a matter of transferring our way of life to the less developed countries .
since integrating the environmental dimension is a long-term commitment , i am in principle against limiting the duration of this regulation .
the previous regulation expired at the end of 1999 .
however , in view of the council 's views on this matter and in order to avoid conciliation , we support the compromise proposal put forward by parliament for a split comitology procedure whereby decisions on strategic guidelines for the actions to be financed would be subject to a management procedure while project approval for the limited number of projects over eur 2 million would be subject to an advisory procedure .
hence the commission supports , in principle , amendment no 16 but prefers the wording of amendments nos 19 , 20 and 21 .
the final important issue common to both this regulation and the forest regulation are the amendments concerning bank guarantees .
for this reason the commission took a decision in july 1999 only to require bank guarantees for advance payments of over eur 1 million .
for these reasons the commission does not support the proposed amendment no 10 on bank guarantees .
with the aim of finding a compromise solution which would make it possible to avoid conciliation the commission could support amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 , although it considers that they bring little added value to the text overall .
amendment no 12 proposes the raising of the threshold for submission of projects for consideration by the council from eur 2 million to eur 5 million .
given that most projects are already under eur 2 million this amendment is considered not relevant .
the amendments on procurement and access to the markets - amendments nos 13 and 14 - would mean a departure from standard and carefully agreed formulations .
lastly , we do not support amendment no 17 as it does not conform to the usual rules or formulation of regulations and is considered to be redundant .
the debate is closed .
i would be happy to speak now , but there is another report first .
the aim of the regulation under discussion today is to establish measures designed to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests in developing countries , in order to guarantee the funding necessary to maintain and make progress with the actions and projects which have been under way for this purpose since the adoption of regulation 3062 , valid until december 1999 .
between 1990 and 1995 , over 56 million hectares of forest , distributed unevenly in various parts of the world , were lost but , without a doubt , this particularly affected developing countries as a result of the increased amount of land used for agricultural purposes , the construction of infrastructures , or due to natural disasters and fires .
we are therefore facing a problem of the first magnitude , not only for developing countries , but also for the whole planet and all the living beings that inhabit it , a problem that parliament has already spoken about at first reading at the end of the previous legislature on 5 may 1999 .
at first reading , parliament approved a total of 34 amendments of which the council , in its common position , has totally or partially taken up 18 .
finally , i wish to request the support of the house with regard to amendments nos 1 , 7 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 , and a negative vote for the others , which , if successful , would break the agreement reached during the discussions with the commission and the council , which would oblige the whole negotiating process to begin again , paralyse some of the actions and projects under way and undoubtedly cause serious problems in the policy of conservation and rehabilitation of the tropical forests that we are trying to develop .
i believe that this is an absolutely fundamental point , especially when we are talking about the sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries .
but we also all know only too well that not all projects are as successful as we would like them to be .
the commission has thus acted appropriately in proposing a new council regulation on tropical forests and i fully subscribe to the thrust of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur , the pinpoint relevance of whose work i salute .
the council regulation of 1995 perhaps focused in too exclusive a manner on the protection of tropical forests and not sufficiently closely on the harnessing of their productive potential .
there are , of course , forests in which there are no production activities of any type , but there are also forests that continue to fulfil an economic function .
with reference to the amendments listed in the fernandez martin report , the commission 's position on the main horizontal issues is as follows .
financial reference account : the commission accepts the compromise figure of eur 249 million over seven years proposed in amendment no 9 .
comitology - the commission supports in principle amendment no 11 but prefers the wording of amendments nos 13 , 14 and 15 .
the amendments propose a split comitology arrangement with annual guidelines and priorities being subject to a management procedure while council would examine projects over eur 2 million under an advisory procedure .
concerning the other amendments , our position is as follows .
we do not support amendments nos 2 , 3 and 6 as we consider that the concepts have been taken into account elsewhere in the regulation following the first reading .
amendment no 1 is not supported as in our opinion it brings little added value .
thank you , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
i would mainly like to home in on one very important point .
northern countries apply a system in which this financial element is handled in a different way .
everyone pays , whether they dump their waste in the sea or dispose of it elsewhere .
it could also be 75 % , but there should at least be a minimum level , which should be quite inflexible .
the other system is the pure polluter-pays principle : anyone who lands ship-generated waste has to pay extra for doing so .
i believe that in the interests of protecting the environment and of a permanently thriving tourist industry in many countries of our community it is better to have an effective system .
in its first reading , parliament said by a large majority that the ships must make a significant contribution , of at least 90 % .
but a contribution might also only mean half a euro and in this case god knows this would be too little .
the same conditions must apply to all ships in port and only if parliament , the council and the commission create these conditions together will this fair competition be restored for ports and ships .
this consistent directive is an important step towards doing this .
i believe - for environmental and competition reasons as well as on the basis of the decisions made two months ago , in january - that we should adopt these amendments tomorrow , in the form in which we debated them in the committee , with a broad majority .
it is a sound directive .
as such , this directive is already coming into effect in a sense .
but should he pay an automatic full amount or a huge amount in port dues , or do we opt for a flexible arrangement , as is being proposed by the council .
in fact , ports in one and the same region apply different standards and percentages .
these days , we know that waste has a habit of reappearing , often in a more harmful form .
large-scale pollution of the sea and the destruction of the animal life caused by shipwrecked tankers always attracts a great deal of attention .
historic museum ships and ships which , proportionately , call at many ports over a short distance have to pay more often as a result .
waste management facilities are to be built in ports and i believe this directive will definitely help considerably in limiting marine pollution .
i also commend the work of the rapporteur , whose commitment reflects the strength of feeling within our committee to tackling this particular problem and a strong desire amongst parliamentarians of all parties to call a halt to this environmentally disastrous practice .
i particularly welcome his strong support for the proposal that , in the interests of improving pollution prevention and avoiding distortions of competition , the environmental requirements should apply to all ships irrespective of the flag they fly and adequate waste reception facilities be made available in all ports throughout the community .
for example , in the uk the system by which a ship pays the waste collector each time it uses waste facilities , without the port getting involved , works well .
the baltic is also more vulnerable from an environmental point of view than many other seas .
mr president , i would like to state briefly that i do not believe that anyone doubts the need for a directive to tackle this problem , which is a serious problem not only for europe , but for all seas world-wide , and that urgent and effective measures are therefore necessary .
i would like to make it clear that there is a series of principles which are universal , and with which we are therefore in complete agreement .
it is therefore on this issue that effective measures must be adopted because , if we are unable to adopt a suitable solution , then this directive will end in outright failure .
i believe that the work we are discussing today is a great step forward .
it is true that we are not specifying what percentage will have to be paid by the ships arriving at the port .
it is true that we are leaving a margin of flexibility for the member states , but it is also certain that , theoretically , 0.01 , although it is a contribution , is not necessarily a significant contribution .
that is , we are talking about practically all of the amendments and , in fact , the one we cannot accept - and i regret it , but i have already explained the reasons - is amendment no 6 .
many thanks , mr president .
this is obviously nonsense because if i am going to carry out inspections there have to be penalties which i can use as a threat in borderline cases .
that is why - as discussed in the committee - i have now tabled an amendment to amendment no 2 which contains no reference to the concept of ' harmonisation ' .
but when it comes to penalties and the word ' harmonisation ' a good many people in this room give a start - on the left and on the right of this house , both those higher up and those lower down .
the first principle , madam vice-president , is for us all to attach the same degree of importance to the need to improve road safety .
the second argument is that there must be no distortions of competition in the community .
we are all very aware that one of the priorities of the portuguese presidency , quite rightly , is to tackle the scandalous position regarding road safety in the european union .
i know they are familiar figures , but 43 000 citizens are killed each and every year .
lorry traffic on eu roads is growing both in numbers and in size and we think there are three reasons why this proposal is so important .
mr president , commissioner , reforming the directive on annual inspections of commercial vehicles is both urgent and vital .
roadside spot checks are also necessary because heavy goods vehicles from non-member countries often enter the area of the union in bad condition , presenting a serious risk to safety .
a considerable number of the vehicles in bad condition were from non-member countries .
what is happening in effect is the following : drivers who do not have an employment permit in an eu member state and who do not have a work contract in the third country benefit from the situation in that they drive a car which is registered in a particular country and which subsequently passes all inspections without a hitch , but do so outside the country where they are registered and where they carry out their activities .
in any case we must prevent this from being dealt with thoughtlessly , precisely because this is about a directive which provides for rules not only for heavy goods vehicles but also for commercial vehicles carrying people .
mr president , commissioner de palacio , the purpose of the proposal the commission made in 1998 is to replace the directive concerning annual inspections of commercial vehicles .
the simplest thing is to talk about the inspection of lorries , which is what we are really discussing , and perhaps we should all think about not only putting the technical title in some of our regulations , but also , in brackets , the colloquial title or one that is more readily comprehensible to our citizens , a matter which i shall transmit to the services and which we shall consider with a view to the future .
the proposal requires that the member states supplement the annual technical inspection by carrying out spot checks in proportion to the fleet of commercial vehicles in circulation annually on their roads .
these inspections may be carried out by the roadside , in ports and in other places where vehicles park , or , as is more frequent in the case of public service vehicles , on the operator 's premises .
this may in fact be the best way to effectively monitor the state of the vehicles in circulation on our roads .
i would like to say that the commission is aware that parliament is concerned that this proposal might lead to discrimination against certain transport contractors , or lorries from certain countries or even certain makes of vehicle , and that the intention of the principal recommendation of the rapporteur is for the fines imposed on operators by the member states to be harmonised as a condition of application of the directive .
we share this concern , but we consider that amendment no 2 is too drastic and , in this respect , we would support amendment no 3 which encompasses the spirit we are all aiming for , and which , at the same time , offers the necessary flexibility .
on the basis that great progress has been made in the past few years , i believe that a great deal still remains to be done , as the death of 42 000 - 43 000 european citizens on the roads is too high a figure and there is still an effort to be made .
the debate is closed .
opening of the session i declare resumed the 2000-2001 session of the european parliament .
agenda mr president , the second item on this morning ' s agenda is the recommendation for second reading on cocoa and chocolate products , for which i am the rapporteur .
i have been a member of this parliament for ten years and i have always been given notice , in my capacity as rapporteur , of any changes to the order of voting .
mr blokland , the officials of the competent services have informed me that your report will automatically be put to the vote tomorrow .
i now ask the house whether it agrees to postpone the vote on the lannoye report until tomorrow .
annual legislative programme ( continuation ) the next item is the continuation of the debate on the european commission ' s annual legislative programme for the year 2000 .
in our debate on the five-year plan , we established that this year would mark the dawn of the " decade of europe " , and it will therefore be a decisive year for the commission .
the explanation of the five-year plan provided us with the general reference framework and we have already set out the commission ' s work programme for the five-year term .
of course , and i am not saying this because i am here , in the presence of parliament , but because it seems particularly important , we have placed particular emphasis on parliament ' s responsibilities in the codecision procedure .
let us now look at the major points of this plan .
basically , the european citizens want justice in order to be able to live their daily lives in safety .
the commission will put forward practical security proposals for increased coordination between europe ' s police forces and for a common action to fight crime , because we have major problems to deal with , including some new ones .
we must re-establish this balance and protect the environment , while , at the same time , we have a binding obligation towards those whose livelihood depends on fishing , and they are concentrated in some of the least industrialised areas in europe .
in fact , these matters are of close relevance to all of our lives , and this is why parliament ' s role is absolutely crucial .
the other day , we closed the debate with the statement that the measure of our success will be the number of european citizens who vote in the next european elections .
i feel that the tangible measures i have touched on today are building up the citizens ' confidence in their government and fostering our relationship with them .
mr president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , we should use the commission ' s annual legislative programme for the year 2000 as an opportunity to reflect on the basic functions and tasks performed by the commission , as well as those performed by the european institutions as a whole .
in two months - on 9 may that is - we will have occasion to remember robert schumann , who on 9 may 1950 , made the splendid proposal for a european coal and steel community .
the boundaries between fairness , equal treatment , and the law of the european union - of the european community - are sometimes blurred .
when the president-in-office makes a tour of the european capitals in preparation for a summit meeting - which has been standard practice for many years - but leaves one capital out and asks the representative of this country to come to brussels , then i do not consider that to be consistent with the principles of the european union and the concepts underlying the community of law . ( applause from the right ) that is why i would like to make the following point to the commission : mr president of the commission , so far we have had no cause to criticise you .
many people understand the concept of subsidiarity to be the lever used to lower the european tasks to local authority , regional or national level .
this may be appropriate in individual cases and indeed we must assess , in the case of every legislative procedure , whether the task in question would be best managed at national , regional or local level .
but the concept of subsidiarity also means that the european union must take on these tasks if they cannot reasonably be undertaken at national , regional or local level .
mr president , you have the right of initiative .
there is the agreement reached with the commission on 15 september last year , in which the commission committed itself in broad terms to delivering the goods by and large when parliament asks it for legislative initiatives .
on this basis , and speaking on behalf of our group , i can tell you that we will do our bit - where we can - not just for a strong europe , but also for a strong commission , whose powers we are prepared to defend against the council of ministers .
accordingly , we are dependent , in the interests of europe , on there being sound cooperation and dialogue between the commission and the european parliament , and that is why we intend to do what we can to support your policies for the year 2000 .
mr president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , if the citizens of europe are looking for this kind of europe , then brussels , and especially the commission , is where they will look .
in the light of this responsibility , mr president of the commission , when you made your last speech here in this house , you proposed concentrating more heavily on core tasks .
this could also be described in terms of carrying out or implementing the subsidiarity principle .
we want to reinforce europe ' s role on the international stage in a clear and unequivocal manner , just as we want to increase its competitiveness .
above all , we must aim to make europe more socially aware , to create a europe of equal opportunities , and to increase security and quality of life within europe .
if you make these your goals , mr president of the commission , then we will be behind you every step of the way .
we decided , in our wisdom , to draft a resolution which may not be quite as long but which provides you with a whole host of proposals and some counter-proposals .
mr president of the commission , i would just like to pick up again on your expression " decisive year " .
you are in the process of drafting a communication strategy for the enlargement of the european union .
there has been much talk about concentrating on core tasks and of achieving better quality of european legislation rather than more quantity .
it is because we want to give more purpose and prominence to this procedure that the eldr intends not to sign the current eight-page list - not because we object to the contents , but because we think this is in danger of becoming an annual ritual performance without substance and real meaning .
the programme submitted to us for this year is generous , to say the least .
according to the terms of chapter i of title 11 of the treaty , in particular , i am thinking specifically of problems to do with working conditions and improving the working environment .
this shows a general decline in working conditions in a number of important sectors .
for example , in the environmental field , we have a white paper on civil liability in environmental matters .
this is an important step forwards , but let me remind you all the same that this white paper is the follow-up to a parliament resolution adopted in 1994 , that is to say , six years ago .
and after the white paper we shall probably have to wait a long time before we have the directive .
this shows just how slow the procedure is and , in order to give reasons for this slowness , i feel it would be important to have an interim report .
today , a proposal for a directive on electrical and electronic waste has been announced .
president prodi , allow me to express my apprehension and alarm at the line taken in the work programme for 2000 , a year which you described as a decisive year , and not only because of the lack of genuinely innovative proposals contained therein .
mr president , i welcome the broad thrust of the proposals published by the commission in its annual legislative programme for the year 2000 .
the most important issues that will be addressed this year will be the reform of the eu decision-making procedures , so that the enlargement process can take place in a streamlined and structured manner .
as a member of the parliament from the constituency of connaught ulster in ireland , a peripheral part of this union , i strongly believe in real and tangible representation for smaller member states within the eu structures .
at present , the five larger member states have two posts within the european commission and there is one each for the smaller member states .
whatever the reform , it is vitally important that smaller member states retain their right to nominate a member of the commission .
from an irish perspective , i strongly believe that member state governments must have a veto over tax changes at eu level .
no changes at present can be agreed at eu level concerning tax policies without the unanimous support of all eu member states .
i believe this is an important right , which should be left in the domain of national member states .
in my own country , the tax regime is quite innovative in many ways .
this cannot be said of many of the other member states .
any proposal to give the european council the power of qualified majority voting on justice and home affairs would be , i believe , very unwise .
of course we want to ensure by the year 2002 that the countries that suffered most when the common fisheries policy was put in place in 1983 will in future receive a fair and equitable share of the resources .
the commission must support educational and training programmes , to ensure that business structures take account of the opportunities which can be secured from the internet and e-commerce in general .
however , in refusing to talk - albeit only bilaterally - and thereby causing a breakdown in communication , the 14 eu partner states are putting this self-same " ability to function " at great risk .
the commission must not stand idly by in a situation of this kind .
with this in mind , i would ask you , president prodi , to get personally involved in setting up a crisis meeting between the heads of government of austria and the 14 eu partner states , so as to bring about detente and normalisation of relations .
mr president , i would first of all like to thank the president of the commission , mr prodi , for his work programme .
the first chapter of the work programme is entitled : " europe , its neighbours and the world " and rightly so .
we know that there are funds available in tacis and echo within the european union .
i should now like to make a few comments on economic and social matters .
yesterday we discussed the lisbon summit for the economic and social revival of europe .
shared objectives for growth in order to enable us to move towards full employment are something i have hoped and prayed for .
in this connection , i should also like to applaud commissioner philippe busquin ' s initiative to create a european research area .
but , in a world where 1.5 billion people are still living without electricity , providing every citizen in the world with access to the internet society is not going to be achieved in the immediate future .
the most significant challenge for the human race is to avoid the separation between information-rich countries and information-poor countries , to prevent the advent of societies where , in the felicitous phrase coined by my friend , claude desama , the digital divide will be the new social divide .
the annual legislative programme is the most concrete manifestation of the european commission 's key constitutional and political power , namely the exclusive right of initiative .
a 15-page general summary does not exactly do justice to the 500 initiatives cited in the annex .
in future , the eldr will therefore insist that there is clear justification for , and specialised parliamentary debate on , all measures announced in the work programme .
in particular , we will be looking for evidence that each new proposal has been properly tested against the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and we will be looking for sector-specific debates in the european parliament 's own specialised committees .
mr president , i would like to thank the president of the commission for giving us two speeches within the space of 24 hours .
last night he clearly pointed out that we have the prospect of a successful european economy ahead of us for the next two or three years and quite clearly , if we have unexpectedly higher-than-normal growth , then that will help us in the endeavours of this annual legislative programme .
on behalf of my group i would like to caution the commission not to go ahead at this stage with shifting agricultural expenditure from category 1 to category 4 .
this is what bedevilled the relationship between our parliament and the previous commission : the fact that we , under the treaties , have access and the right of access to all information in principle .
you say , for example , that you wish to take account of environmental policy in all the other policy areas .
you must not neglect to mention this in your other papers .
we will gauge how successful you have been , mr prodi , on a weekly , monthly and annual basis .
you see , mr prodi , it is a lot more simple than you might fear .
where , in that case , do you find a legal basis for this view , and do you believe that such a principle can suppress the ombudsman ' s right to express himself freely in the press ?
working in the european parliament , we can see that harmonisation of the existing legislation on civil law is essential .
it is creating freedom of movement and freedom to settle , and an economic area which affords opportunities for unlimited economic activity - and thus also for unlimited illegal economic activity incidentally .
in order to combat this , the eu aims , in turn , to create a european police force .
if the commission has the courage to say that it is prepared to enter into a confrontation with the council , as the guardian of the treaties and the future integration of europe , then i would hope that a majority of this parliament would support you in this .
however , i would like to hear a clear commitment from the commission that it will seek a solution for the speedy transposition into community law of the recommendations of the regional and international fishing organisations .
delays in transposition are an endemic problem in the commission .
for example , we have been waiting since 1996 for the incorporation into community legislation of the ban on landings from honduras and belize , or , for example , since 1998 for the control of the fishing capacity for albacore tuna in community waters .
the commission is always accusing member states of not transposing its decisions and directives into their national legislation , while it is doing exactly the same thing on an international level .
it is clear that the proposal presented by the commission on the communication on the reform of international organisations , with a view to speeding up the process , tries to separate the legislative processes both of parliament and of the council .
from the point of view of this institution , there are serious doubts as to whether this is the best way to resolve this problem .
i hope that president prodi will now commit himself to resolving this problem once and for all , and that , in any event , parliament will always be connected with the legislative procedure for incorporating the recommendations of international fishing organisations into community legislation .
while the delors commission took us from the single european act to the union treaty and an extensive enlargement of the european community , i hope that the prodi commission will be the commission of a social europe , the commission which ensures that economic development does not go hand in hand with social discrimination , but rather with social progress .
to this end , i hope that the commission will bear in mind the points of view being expressed in the european parliament .
finally , mr president , i would like to remind you of a text which is mentioned in the commission communication .
today the commission is to speak of the first document in this field , and i hope that , in doing so , it will take account of the requirements of these outermost regions of the community .
the commission is the guardian of the treaties .
but the unwritten rights of the member states are there in the background of the treaties and i believe it is high time that the commission came to see itself more as the guardian of the rights of the member states in the course of its work .
i would urge you , mr president of the commission , to also become the advocate for the rights of the member states , for what frustrates us on occasions about the way the commission works , is its attempt , under the pressure of getting things done , to lay claim to certain rights .
therefore , mr president , please cast yourself in the role of advocate for the rights of the member states .
mr president , mr president of the commission , you spoke of a detailed programme in your introduction .
mr president of the commission , i am in favour of creating a european defence identity , including the military dimension thereof , and i welcome with open arms the outcome of the unofficial meeting of the defence ministers in sintra .
the commission must take responsibility , launch initiatives , and submit projects in this sphere , which needs to be developed from scratch .
following the helsinki decisions , we in the european parliament demanded a catalogue of measures and a detailed schedule , which would enable turkey to be prepared for fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria - in particular the political criteria - in a concrete and structured manner .
mr president of the commission , on reading your white paper on the reform of the commission , it is clearly apparent that the guiding principle , the philosophy behind this reform , is something very vague which we cannot accept in this parliament .
allow me to give you an example , since the speaking time allotted to me does not give me much opportunity to expand on this idea .
from the point of view of this parliament , this type of arrangement cannot be allowed .
thank you , mr prodi , for your presentation and your documentation .
seattle failed because the united states , in particular , appeared unable to grasp the legitimacy of policies such as environmental protection , the preservation of rural communities through the common agricultural policy , animal welfare , health concerns and social rights .
we had a white paper on innovation some years ago - what has happened since ?
i welcome the forthcoming communication on enterprise , but i hope that past work will also be looked at before we go ahead with more .
the reform of the commission , mr prodi , should not only protect the financial interests of the community .
go for it , mr prodi .
we need to modernise and strengthen that legislation , not in order to stop globalisation or the deepening of the internal market - of course not - but in order to make sure that we manage the changes these things bring , through a spirit of partnership in all of our workplaces , large and small , within the european union .
that means that we need to pursue with vigour the general framework on information and consultation at work .
we have outstanding promises for legislation on homeworking , on teleworking ; we have the yawning gap of social security in atypical work that has been outstanding for almost a decade now ; we have the promise of a specific directive on muscular-skeletal injuries outstanding from the last medium-term social action programme .
you have our full backing on this as well , for money laundering is partly what motivates organised crime .
here , i am sorry to say , we are lagging behind police cooperation by some 10 to 20 years , and we urgently need a catching-up programme .
you have our support in matters of transparency and when it comes to the momentum created at tampere , which we want to keep going , and you have our support because there is a possibility of bringing pressure to bear on the council .
we , along with other groups in this parliament , are still waiting for the commission to present a proposal laying down the practical arrangements for the implementation of the code of conduct that would facilitate cooperation and proper scrutiny .
when , mr president , will the commission go further on spatial planning and submit new proposals to develop the decision taken at the informal council meetings , notably at potsdam and tampere ?
regarding transport and tourism , i and my group welcome the proposals reinforcing transport safety although we need more concrete proposals on road safety and in particular , the issue of blood-alcohol levels and speed limits .
we also want progress on both the working time directive and the slot allocation at airport directive , as well as measures to end the misery in air traffic control delays in europe at this moment .
i regret that transport issues do not appear to have been taken seriously into account in the enlargement chapter and would encourage the commission to present proposals to ensure better coordination between structural actions and instruments and the phare and tacis programmes .
i also want to insist that parliament ' s views and wishes on postal services , often stated in this chamber , are taken fully into account in any new proposals .
be that as it may ; today , mr prodi , you mentioned fisheries .
mr president , i should like to address the commission in order to express my wish that the year 2000 should enable us to make progress in the general direction of coherence , particularly in the field of agriculture .
so why , after so often declaring that the wto must incorporate social and environmental regulatory mechanisms , and that the european union intends to guarantee advantages for ldcs , does the commission still adhere exclusively to the prospect of market liberalisation in this sector ?
you will be aware that , as a result of this crisis , which has now lasted for more than two years , many independent producers find that they have been relegated to being mere casual workers for firms or other large-scale producers .
in december , she succeeded in great style , working together with the finnish presidency , in opening the railway system .
she is also working very hard on something you , mr president , brought up back in july last year , namely the issue of an effective european air traffic control system .
mr barnier ' s proposals are equally impressive , for there has been excellent cooperation between mr barnier and parliament on interreg and urban .
i particularly wanted to congratulate president prodi on emphasising the issue of governance in the overall planning process .
the outbursts in seattle and davos for instance were not just about the issues - they were very much about a populace and a citizenry trying to engage with a new set of institutions and being not quite sure of how to do so .
we cannot develop a whole series of initiatives based on , for instance , small businesses or health on-line or whatever without educating people to be literate in those technologies .
can i just , in finishing , say that we will have started four new programmes by the end of this year - media , culture 2000 , youth and socrates .
i hope that we will evaluate the work that was done in the previous programmes to ensure that these are not just another new layer but are actually a new beginning for the programmes that can present us with an educated european citizenry .
mr president , i must object in the strongest possible terms to the proposal , within this legislative programme , to reduce the agricultural budget by eur 300 million for the purpose of rebuilding kosovo .
when farmers are going bankrupt every day in the uk , when the level of suicides amongst farmers and farm-workers has reached unprecedented levels , when the economy of rural britain is in spiral decline , how can i explain to them that eur 300 million would be better off spent in kosovo ?
i urge honourable members , when we come to vote on this issue , to vote against this proposal .
mr president , i should like to return to the subject of the annual legislative programme , after that digression on the european budget .
that is a very good example , but what happened to the other five ?
there is no obligation on the commission to respond , but we would expect the commission , in a spirit of cooperation with parliament , to look at these proposals carefully and to respond in most cases .
we were happy with the compromise that article 192 represented , but if this compromise is felt not to be working , and if it is not seen to be satisfactory from parliament 's point of view , there will inevitably be pressure for the treaty to be amended to give parliament a full right of initiative , something the commission does not want because it sets great store by its monopoly of the right of initiative .
the only thing i would ask is that you view my speech as just part of an overall debate which is taking shape day by day .
many of you have rightly expressed the opinion that tourism is a subject which is missing , which , as has been said , is a larger employer than agriculture .
however , we also have a major opportunity , which was welcomed by a great many of you today , in that our economy looks set to be sound for at least two or three years .
the white paper on governability , on the one hand , and the difficulties of balancing the budget , on the other , are the two pillars upon which we must base a joint political action for the short term .
we cannot stifle these countries at such a decisive moment as this .
thank you very much , mrs thors .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
mr president , i think it useful to remind you that we voted on this proposed directive relating to cocoa and chocolate products at first reading in october 1997 .
in fact , therefore , the council of ministers has taken a great deal of time to reach an agreement on its common position , since it was not until october 1999 that this common position was available .
to tell the truth , i feel that this is not an acceptable compromise and that the use of vegetable fats has been made an acceptable commonplace while not giving consumers sufficient information , ignoring the problem of the analysis method ' s lack of reliability , removing subsidiarity and complying with the requirements of multinational chocolate manufacturers , while ignoring the concerns of small specialist chocolate-makers and smes , consumer rights and the future of the millions of farmers involved in cocoa production .
it is true that there is an annex restricting the list of permitted vegetable fats to six substances , which include shea nut butter , which is a product gathered in some poor countries of africa , such as mali and burkina faso .
let me cite , in particular , the compulsory identification of any vegetable fat content on the front of the product ; the requirement for preliminary validation of a reliable analysis method ; the principle of subsidiarity , which was removed by the council even though it had been proposed by the commission from the outset , the rejection of methods of genetic engineering and chemical methods - i would point out that the committee on the environment , public health and consumer protection is in favour of rejecting the use of genetic engineering - and , finally , last but not least , a proposal for a serious impact study , which will not be carried out long after the directive comes into force but rather as soon as it comes into force , on the socio-economic situation of the cocoa-producing countries who are likely to be the first victims of this legislation .
admittedly , it conflicts with the council ' s common position , but i believe that parliament ' s role is to play a full part in the codecision process and not to bow down before the decisions of the council , even if they are the product of a very long gestation period of two years .
we are getting one , two and a half years after the directive has entered into force .
mr president , as shadow rapporteur for the ppe-de group , i am proud of the fact that virtually all amendments from first reading , which have impacted so heavily on the common position , are the product of our own hands .
mr president , it has taken us twenty-five years to come to the point of a common position which represents a real compromise .
if i came from burkina faso or mali or one of the countries that produced beurre de karite and i was told that the women ' s cooperatives who collect the shea nuts that are a substantial part of their exports to europe , will be banned or put at risk because they are seen to be stooges of the multinationals , i would be very angry indeed .
for example , we need to be aware of the precarious situation of the countries where the ingredients for chocolate originate .
the council ' s common position as it is now before us attempts to accommodate all these interests .
mr president , commissioner , since we cannot reject the directive on chocolate which is , as it stands , unacceptable , parliament is duty bound , at the very least , to improve it .
in the first place , we must ask ourselves what is the relevance of this directive which is going to change the definition of chocolate .
the european parliament must be aware that the codex alimentarius , which dictates the composition of chocolate internationally , stipulates that it is made from cocoa butter .
what right , then , has the european union , with regard to the food traditions of some member states who incorrectly describe products including vegetable fats other than cocoa butter as ' chocolate ' , to enforce a change in the very definition of what chocolate is ?
in order to avoid chaos in producing countries , the european parliament must demand an impact study on the export situation .
mr president , commissioner , as all chocolate-lovers know , proper chocolate is made from cocoa butter .
the addition of any other fats spoils the flavour .
indeed the 1973 directive , which prohibited the use of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter , was intended to safeguard this quality .
at first reading , parliament got involved in a dangerous procedure of accepting the directive subject to certain conditions .
the council leapt into the breach , adopting its common position , which recognises the designation ' chocolate ' even for products with other vegetable fats added .
at second reading , however , the european parliament can thwart this directive which would have serious implications if it were applied .
acp cocoa-producing countries would experience a considerable reduction in their market and their income .
this would involve more than usd 300 million for the ivory coast alone .
we have therefore tabled a motion to reject the council ' s common position .
mr president , consumer protection is our prime concern .
the issue of the directive on the production and sale of chocolate is thus just as important .
the european union must lead the way in simplification , confidence , authenticity and respect for differences .
since 1973 , european legislation has stipulated that the designation ' chocolate ' must be given to products containing only cocoa and cocoa butter .
some member states have enjoyed a derogation from this law since acceding to the union .
in a shop in my own home town , in reims , i wish to be able to purchase a bar of chocolate produced according to the gastronomic traditions of my own country , without having to inspect the product on all sides and to put my glasses on in order to check its quality .
then , a few years ago , great britain , which gave the world meat served with jam , hooligans and adam smith , started to feed cows on cadavers and to manufacture chocolate without cocoa .
just as in the case of port we are not told ' south african counterfeit ' , for cocoa we are not told ' counterfeit ' .
it is a legal obligation with regard to the ivory coast and african farmers .
in the light of these principles , we are unable to endorse the aims of this directive .
to reinforce the point again : there is already chocolate containing the disputed 5 % of other vegetable fats , and there are countries where it is prohibited to add these fats , with the exception of cocoa butter .
the same could apply to chocolate as i see it .
there is an open letter that expresses the thought that the chocolate directive is the last nail in the coffin of 11 million people in western africa .
rightly or wrongly , it is said that this parliament should not accept any amendments at the risk of jeopardising this delicate compromise .
each common position always strikes a delicate balance between national interests , environmental conditions and social considerations .
it is wonderful , but millions of people in europe also enjoy the british product .
the harsh fact is that none of us , belgians , french or british , are paying the cocoa growers a fair price for their efforts and the contrast between our enjoyment of this luxury product and their poverty is shameful .
it means proper information for consumers and , because a number of countries have so far only been familiar with chocolate in which cocoa butter is used as vegetable fat , it may be relevant for consumers in these countries to learn that another vegetable fat has been used .
on the other hand , i do not think that it can , or ought to be , implied that chocolate in which , for example , shea nuts are used as vegetable fat is necessarily of poorer quality than chocolate in which the vegetable fat used is cocoa butter .
a ban of this kind is the only means through which we can give developing countries a guarantee that they can go on at all exporting the goods which they produce by natural means .
indeed there would be a great deal to say about the attitude of some delegations within the council .
the consumer will not be able to make an informed choice .
this is what we achieved in the european parliament at first reading .
that is why big industry is so much in favour of them .
thank you very much , mrs grossetete .
cocoa and chocolate products ( continuation ) mr president , mr de croo , after debating for 25 years , we are gathered here once again to discuss chocolate , such a polemical debate for such a sweet subject .
moreover , if we must have harmonisation , for a consumer that is ever more demanding about the quality of what he eats and who , incidentally , has asked for nothing and has absolutely nothing to gain in this matter , in my view , the absolute minimum would be to limit the quality label or any other label of excellence to 100 % cacao chocolate , real chocolate .
if the european union lays down rules governing the production of chocolate , then these should be geared to protecting the cocoa farmers in the third world , especially in africa .
if i could share one brief historical fact with the house concerning my own country : the first mention of solid chocolate being sold in the uk was in 1657 when a frenchman opened a shop in london .
so if it was legal in 1657 for a frenchman to sell his chocolate in london , can i suggest to the house that , some 350 years later , it should at long last be legal for an englishman , or indeed any other eu national , to sell his chocolate throughout the eu including the country of the rapporteur .
if we direct developments in such a way as to create a situation in which there is only the one tradition of chocolate manufacture within the eu , cocoa-producing countries will be in danger of losing out since there would be a great risk of total chocolate consumption within the eu appreciably decreasing .
let us not , therefore , make the same mistake as dom mintoff .
the proposal that information about the contents of certain forms of chocolate should be provided on the front of the packaging is discriminatory and completely unjustified .
we now have the opportunity to bring the 25 year-old european chocolate war to an honourable end for all the parties concerned .
mr president , i am belgian and i am not opposed to the common position .
the producers of cocoa beans , namely the small farmers in the poor third-world countries , are vulnerable .
we need to keep a close eye on them and this is why i am in favour of a study being carried out by the commission on the effects of the directive , no more than two years after the introduction of this directive .
through the common position , the free movement of cocoa and chocolate products was introduced , but with strict conditions governing production and consumer information .
they are all of tropical origin and produced in acp countries .
the presence of these substances must be indicated separately but in the same area of the packaging as the product name and list of ingredients .
the common position involves a real compromise and is a clear advance on the legislation currently applicable .
as you will all remember , during the last part-session here in strasbourg , the european parliament debated and adopted a resolution in which it condemned and stated its concern at the difficult conditions under which journalists work in angola .
following consultation with other members of the committee on development and cooperation i appeal to you to postpone the voting on this regulation until tomorrow .
hence , i would ask you , as rapporteur , to follow my recommendation for postponement . ( the vote was postponed until the following day ) recommendation for second reading ( a5-0048 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation , on the council common position for adopting a european parliament and council regulation on measures to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries [ 12487 / 1 / 1999 - c5-0014 / 2000 - 1999 / 0015 ( cod ) ] ( rapporteur : mr fernandez martin ) .
just to repeat what my colleague , poul nielson , stated yesterday , the commission 's position on the amendments is as follows .
the commission supports amendment no 11 , in principle , and supports the following amendments : amendments nos 4 , 7 , 9 , 10 , 13 , 14 and 15 .
the european union and its member states in fact have some responsibility for the conservation of an ecosystem which is essential to the environmental balance of the entire planet .
our responsibility also stems from our status as consumers : many consumer products in europe come from these regions and generally have an adverse impact on the forest .
finally , the european union actually includes large areas of tropical forest within the territory of its member states , particularly france .
the department of french guyana , in particular , is almost entirely covered by this type of vegetation .
in particular , the important thing is to enable real development in these areas , while respecting the culture and traditions of the inhabitants , without setting them in stone in a purely passive ecological conservation mode .
the european union can make a contribution in this field if it can manage to coordinate efforts and know-how without seeking to control or foist a single strategy on member states .
recommendation for second reading of the bouwman report ( a5-0043 / 2000 ) the recent wreck of the erika oil tanker off the coast of brittany increased the awareness among the general public of the problem , among others , of ' degassing ' , the illegal discharge of waste oils , detritus or other waste associated with vessel cargoes , which some unscrupulous ship ' s captains undertake while at sea .
just today , in fact , the european parliament is examining , at second reading , a proposed directive which has been under discussion for two years , which draws the implications of the 1973 marpol international convention , ratified by all member states , to the community level .
we know only too well the pressure of competition in maritime transport .
it forms part of the overall community strategy for waste management and requires all ports to provide appropriate waste-disposal facilities , adequate for the needs of vessels .
the system generally applied is the one governed by the ' polluter pays ' principle , a principle which is outstanding in terms of its inefficiency !
such an alternative is offered to us in an amendment which i supported .
this system would inevitably encourage vessels to dispose of their operational waste and cargo residues in port rather than degassing at sea , a deplorable practice which is commonplace nowadays .
everyone knows that some vessels even took advantage of the pollution caused by the wreck of the erika to discharge their waste at sea .
there are , however , examples of good practice , because the countries around the baltic sea have already been operating in this way since 1998 .
this is why the european parliament and its committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , confirming the outcome of the first reading in the previous legislative period , have proposed that every vessel entering a member state port should bear 90 % of the costs of waste disposal and management , regardless of the actual use made of the facilities .
if the port facilities were in fact financed ( at a high level ) only by the vessels actually using them , then there would be grounds for fearing that many vessels would avoid these charges , since dumping waste at sea would prove less costly .
in the last week of february , 39 instances of illegal degassing were identified in the vicinity of the wreck of the erika alone .
for all these reasons the uen group , recalling its agreement with the council ' s common position , is now opposing the text of this report which has twisted the principles of the common position .
recommendation for second reading of the piecyk report ( a5-0040 / 2000 ) - ( fr ) the european parliament has today expressed its opinion of the proposed directive on the technical roadside inspection of the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles .
it is indeed essential to improve the level of safety and to mitigate the environmental impact of these vehicles , the volume of which is constantly increasing .
the convention has already started the process of drafting the charter upon the principal lines that we propose and upon the presumption that the final result will be binding .
a strong vote for this resolution will assist the convention to complete its task and set criteria for this parliament ' s final appraisal of the results .
the drafting of the charter will certainly be informed by the application of that principle , but it is crucial that the charter reflects modern european society with all its pluralism and with all its diversity .
there is also a controversy over the relationship between the new european union charter and the existing european convention of human rights .
dubious though some of the things emanating from this continent may have been , in terms of democracy and human rights this continent has sent out a message of indisputable global resonance .
that is why we cannot rest content with the fact that all member states have signed up to the european convention on human rights when the european union has not .
that is why it should no longer be deemed appropriate for eu law to infringe national law , the constitutional law of the member states that is , when the union itself does not have a clear and comprehensive system of fundamental rights .
it should therefore disturb us that fresh fundamental rights conflicts are breaking out in the spheres of information and communication science and biotechnology , but europe does not have a consensus on fundamental rights with which to provide answers .
the european parliament has a long , unbroken tradition when it comes to defending fundamental and human rights .
these demands are in keeping with this tradition and they are in the nature of things , in the nature of fundamental rights ; in other words , no rights are to be promised unless they are to be made law for the citizens .
all the policies , institutions and bodies of the european union must be subject to this charter of fundamental rights .
we cannot do without this charter of fundamental rights if we are to construct a european democracy in this supranational area .
human dignity is sacrosanct ! . ( it ) madam president , the european parliament is at last about to vote on the report , which has taken a great deal of time to prepare , on the drafting of the european union ' s charter of fundamental rights , and i hope that the patient work of the rapporteurs will be rewarded in this chamber .
a catalogue of fundamental rights which are recognised as binding by the european institutions also sets out the duty of the citizens to respect them .
the european union is a civil , legal area of freedom , which is not just economic freedom but also freedom of security and justice , in a huge territory which , in the past , has been the site of repeated bloodshed .
i hope that we are to have a modernised version of the wording of article 6 of the council of europe ' s convention in which our already existing rights are listed in a summarised and concentrated form , with modern biotechnology and data protection added .
madam president , as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs , i will mainly focus on the issue of social fundamental rights .
these rights should therefore be included in the first part of the charter .
in the case of other social fundamental rights , there should be a link between the way fundamental rights are worded and the effects thereof on the individual .
no more so , in actual fact , than is the guarantee of freedom of expression or a fair hearing .
i would also like to comment on international treaties with regard to social fundamental rights .
in amendment no 22 to the duff / voggenhuber report , i argued that a reference to the echr should be placed in article 6 of the treaty of the union , and that a reference to the to the esc should be placed in the ilo ' s and the united nations ' core conventions .
another amendment , regarding a more far-reaching alternative , amendment no 23 , stipulates that the echr , as well these social international standards should be acceded to .
these legally binding instruments have proven to be a shot in the arm in the equal treatment of men and women in the member states .
an explicit recognition in the forthcoming european union charter of fundamental rights of a wholesale ban on gender-based discrimination and with it , inclusion in the treaties themselves , would then also create the necessary scope for a new eu policy to promote the position of women in all relevant social fields .
madam president , in many discussions on fundamental rights , the rights of women are often relegated to a specific rights ' category .
the aim of this report is to give our fellow members , who are members of the convention , a clear and specific mandate detailing the expectations of the european parliament and to give our fellow citizens clear evidence of our commitment to ensuring that their fundamental rights are properly respected by the institutions of the union .
the area of competence of the committee on petitions justifies its interest in the framing of the charter .
so our opinion stresses two key points which the rapporteurs , moreover , seem to share .
firstly , the necessary visibility of the charter as a point of reference for the citizens .
this necessitates clear and concise drafting within a single , comprehensible text .
the natural outcome of this determination is the inclusion of the future charter among the treaties .
in conclusion , let me say that it is necessary to make a qualitative leap in the protection of fundamental rights .
madam president , no doubt the council would like to hear the opinion of the political groups , which seems to me to be very healthy .
madam president , we are holding this debate at exactly the right time .
the convention which is drafting the charter on fundamental rights has begun its work and i believe that we are already doing so at cruise speed .
it is therefore important for this parliament to establish a mandate for the members of the delegation representing it and also to establish - and this seems to me to be essential - which political objectives this parliament will pursue by means of this charter of fundamental rights .
i believe that parliament should send a very clear message : the charter of fundamental rights is a supplement to these rights guaranteed in the constitutions .
the report which we are debating today and voting on tomorrow also seems to explain very clearly what the political objectives of this parliament are .
however , it seems to me essential that parliament bears this objective in mind with regard to the drawing up of the charter .
it is also important to state , as this report does , that absolutely no harm will be done to the protection of fundamental rights as laid down in existing provisions .
i repeat that what we want is to provide the european citizens with a supplementary guarantee when it comes to the application of community law .
i believe that , by affirming the indivisibility of fundamental rights , as this resolution does , or affirming their innovative nature , we are taking positive steps towards an improvement in the living conditions of the european citizens .
i therefore hope , madam president , that tomorrow ' s vote will support the rapporteurs ' good work with a massive vote in favour of this report .
the resolution on which we shall be voting tomorrow is certainly not intended to give a binding mandate to our fellow members , myself included , in the context of the convention , since we have already commenced work .
in the first place , what do we expect to obtain from this exercise ?
frankly , ladies and gentlemen , if the objective were to assemble a convention , original in form and composition , as we have today , in order merely to come up with an announcement of a text bearing the signatures of the presidents of the three institutions , then i think we would be on the wrong track .
my second point is to do with its content .
our resolution does not say much with regard to content , but parliament has already had , on at least three occasions , the opportunity to state what it expected from a charter on fundamental rights .
secondly , if the convention must confine itself to regurgitating all or part of the european convention on human rights in order to void the question of whether or not the union should adhere to it of all meaning , then i believe once again that we would be on the wrong track .
but , these specifically are the issues involved in the work which will be carried out within the convention and , on behalf of my group , i wish to state the importance we shall accord the charter ' s content in terms of such questions .
in this spirit , i fully support the proposal which ieke van den burg has just made : if the union is questioning its adherence to the european convention on human rights , then it must also question its adherence to the european social charter .
it would enable fundamental rights to be recognised in due form , and given the place they deserve in our internal legal system , a system which today is observed with a great deal of attention by citizens within the european union , certainly , but also by the countries who wish to join the union .
fundamental rights are of secondary importance in treaties these days .
finally , madam president , it is essential for the european union to accede to the european convention on human rights , for strasbourg must become stronger , not weaker .
ladies and gentlemen , the charter of fundamental rights must be an essential stage in the construction of europe .
france , the self-proclaimed home of human rights , must absolutely take advantage of its presidency during the second half of 2000 in order to table this amendment of the treaties .
for example , how acceptable is it that an algerian who has worked and paid taxes in france for thirty years may not vote in local elections whilst a european resident for six months in another european country can take part ?
it is high time that we tackled these shortcomings in the protection of fundamental rights .
firstly , because after many years we are at last getting down to a project that many committed citizens , non-governmental organisations , and various political forces , not to mention this house , have long been calling for .
firstly : in terms of standards , the charter of fundamental rights must not fall behind the fundamental rights in existence in our countries , as it must not fall behind those enshrined in the european convention on human rights .
secondly , it is only natural that the charter should encompass all the policies of the union ; community law as well as the second and third pillars , and , as such , make it incumbent on all bodies and institutions to preserve fundamental rights in the course of their decision-making and in the development and implementation of policies .
thirdly - and i cannot do other than support mrs boumediene-thiery from the group of the greens / european free alliance in this - the charter of fundamental rights must establish rights for all those who live in the union , and not , for example , create first and second-class rights for first and second-class citizens respectively .
we already have some concerns in this respect , particularly in view of the fact that practically all the amendments relating to this were rejected following the votes in committee .
we also hope that this parliament will set down a clear political marker in this matter during tomorrow ' s vote in plenary sitting .
madam president , my speech is going to be rather different to that of the previous speakers , since i should like to demonstrate that the charter of the fundamental rights of the citizens of the european union , as outlined in the european parliament report by duff and voggenhuber , would in fact be a charter that restricted fundamental rights even more .
this report in fact proposes including the citizens ' rights which have until now been determined at national level in a standard , detailed and binding european charter , whose application would be monitored and hence interpreted by the european court of justice .
i should point out , before going on , that i am not sure that all the other participants representing the heads of state or government and the national parliaments within the body established by the cologne council to prepare a preliminary draft charter are in fact in agreement with this position of the european parliament .
and how right they are , for this detailed , mandatory charter , which would give standardised definitions of citizens ' rights for the whole of europe , would impose a rigid legal framework enclosing each nation in regulations which were not entirely its own .
it would end in a situation where a nation could no longer amend the rights of its own citizens without obtaining the agreement of fourteen other nations , a suffocating formula , ill-suited to the nature and the interests of europe , as i explained in the minority opinion appended to the report .
the union for a europe of nations group therefore considers that the charter , if it must exist , should be extremely brief and should present only the essential values , the fundamental principles of the countries of europe , in the form of a political declaration .
every country must continue to be able to choose its regulations freely in accordance with its own culture and development .
i like to remember that , right here , in france , a couple of centuries ago , the first moves were made to define these rights , and only in north america , during the same period , were these rights actually given expression , apart from in the works of philosophers and academics , in legal documents such as the state constitutions .
this charter is important because , although we do have other conventions and treaties , human rights are always under threat , even within the union .
in particular , certain rules of some of the penal codes should be altered , such as article 141 of the italian penal code , which goes so far as to punish acts of secession with life imprisonment .
fundamental rights must be secured where they can be protected as effectively as possible and where they can be embedded in the social fabric , that is to say within the member states .
a legally binding charter will inevitably affect fundamental rights provisions in member states and will undermine the role and the authority of the echr and the court in strasbourg .
mr president , dismayed as i am by the fact that 14 member states have prejudged austria , i regard the proposed charter of fundamental rights as an opportunity to bring the european union closer to the people .
at the same time , however , the impression has been created in the public arena that the european union does not even respect the fundamental right - as it were - of an individual state to form a government with sovereign power .
likewise , the impression has been created that 14 member states have failed to play by the rules they themselves adopted , and have violated their obligations towards solidarity .
mr president , for years now , the european parliament and our group have been asking for a proper description of fundamental rights of the european citizens in the european treaties .
the request was made at the time of the treaty of maastricht and the treaty of amsterdam .
the charter should at least deal with the citizens ' fundamental rights , the political rights , the social rights and , in my opinion , the rights of minorities too , and it should form a supplement to what we already have .
i will probably submit a text on this matter myself .
the european parliament declared itself fully in favour of this move , convinced that this is the way to guarantee the legal status of the charter and to consolidate the protection of rights at a legal level as well , awarding jurisdiction to the court of justice of the european union .
as we are all aware , from the european parliament ' s perspective , this should represent a step towards the constitutionalisation of the union .
the incorporation of the charter of rights into the treaties is the logical result of the decision taken in cologne , which was taken for the benefit of the citizens , that they might have a part in the construction of europe and fully identify with the plans for the union , its principles , its values and its institutions .
in our eagerness to make things right , we are , however , in danger of doing a lot of damage .
the eu must not start competing with the existing authorities for resolving disputes , such as the court of human rights here in strasbourg .
in my view , the eu ' s court of justice should therefore be kept away from the project concerning fundamental rights .
in the brief time that i have , i would like to concentrate on one specific point which the previous speaker has mentioned , as indeed have other speakers .
that is the potential conflict which could arise between this charter and the european convention on human rights .
let us not forget that each member state has ratified the european convention on human rights , has incorporated it into its own national law and is bound by the decisions of the european court of human rights in strasbourg .
also , in case members do not know it , under a strict legal interpretation any eu legislation supersedes any constitutional provision or any other national legislative provision in any one of the member states .
therefore , if this charter were to be incorporated into the treaties , it would supersede the european convention on human rights , it would supersede any national constitutional provisions and would also supersede any national legislative provisions .
therefore , whilst it is important that each of us must stand up for the inalienable freedoms and rights enjoyed by each individual citizen , as well as by groups of citizens , i think there is a better way to deal with this problem than through a charter , namely through the incorporation of the convention into european union law and its enforcement at national member state level .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , with this proposed charter and some other reports which this house will be debating tomorrow morning , we have now entered a new period of european construction , the ' dadaist ' period of european construction , which scorns reality and perpetually seeks moral justification for itself .
it is a pretext , when the very title of the proposed charter speaks of the fundamental rights ' of ' the european union instead of fundamental rights ' within ' the european union .
mr president , the question we have heard several times in the course of this debate is this : what exactly is the point of this charter of human rights , when there is already one , and even several universal conventions on human rights and a european convention on human rights , and human rights are included in the constitutions of all the member states , those of the candidate countries and , generally , in the constitutions of all countries , even those who do not respect human rights ?
of course , the charter of human rights is the first step in this direction , but , as with everything which characterises the construction of europe , the approach is indirect , concealed , tortuous and , i might even say , ' jesuitical ' .
i feel that this is a problem which as yet we can only see the premises of , but , in my view , it is absolutely essential to see the premises in order to be able subsequently to follow the thread .
some have argued that the charter should simply gather together in a readable form all the rights that currently exist within the european union .
many citizens do not know the rights that exist today .
i believe we have a team of 60 politicians working on the convention because it is our duty to identify gaps in existing rights , to identify weaknesses in existing structures and to show the political will to correct those weaknesses .
so the charter must fill in any gaps in existing rights , and it must be binding on the institutions of the european union .
there needs to be a list of rights which will be directly upheld by the courts , but there also needs to be another list of general rights which the community institutions and others will have to take into account when drafting policies ; some in the court , some simply as background forming a valuable basis when we are taking other decisions .
what is clear , and what unites most people in this chamber who want such a charter , is that it must be in the treaties .
if it is to impact on the citizen it must appear in the treaties of the european union .
citizens can mainly stand as candidates in elections and vote in another eu country .
during this past century , europe has experienced two terrible wars , immeasurable tragedies , but , at the same time , it has witnessed unrestrainable civil , cultural and social progress .
it is a bitter surprise to find that there is no specific , explicit reference in this document to those social rights which are , in actual fact , the most important part of the immense democratic process which became established in europe during the course of the century .
first and foremost , a document such as this cannot fail to include a specific , indisputable reference to the right to work .
yes , social rights are mentioned , but they should be clearly and practically defined : the right to work , the right to health , the right to education , the right to housing , to a pension , the right , that is , to life , to a life where all have equal opportunities , according to those principles of liberte [ freedom ] and egalite [ equality ] which have played such a major part in our extensive history .
we oppose the charter , however , because in the idea behind it , we detect a kind of trojan horse for federalism , a political trap which would entail other serious political and legal consequences for the member states and peoples of europe .
there is a very simple reason why the european union does not need a charter of fundamental rights : it does not have a fundamental rights problem .
the europe to which we belong is even , to a certain extent , the cradle of the culture of fundamental rights .
the appropriate setting in which to enshrine fundamental rights is the constitutional law of each nation state .
the appropriate setting for achieving international legal harmonisation and solid advances in the international protection of human rights is the agreements and conventions ratified by the member states in as wide a geographical area as possible .
however , the report by duff and voggenhuber has given us cause for this today .
the second danger is that it may give the european union an excuse to continue not being legally bound by basic decisions or regulations of international bodies , such as the european convention on human rights or the various decisions of the international labour organisation .
fundamental rights of the modern age have their origins in the magna carta libertatum of 1215 , the petition of rights of 1628 , the habeas corpus act of 1679 , the bill of rights of 1689 and , lastly , the declaration of the rights of man and citizen during the french revolution .
applied to europe this means that a european charter of fundamental rights must protect the citizens of the european union against the interference and intervention of european institutions in the fundamental rights of the citizens .
furthermore , our group hopes that a written european catalogue of fundamental rights will put european integration on a firmer legal-ethical footing and help to create greater transparency and clarity for the citizens .
at the same time , however , this means that we must confine ourselves to the traditional fundamental rights and avoid extending the scope to social and economic fundamental rights , which are not legally enforceable at european level .
mr president , the rapporteurs duff and voggenhuber , as well as the committee on constitutional affairs , have done some sterling work .
it concerns the question , raised repeatedly today , as to whether the european union should sign up to the european convention on human rights .
the european convention on human rights does not fulfil this task .
we call upon the convention on fundamental rights , the 62 politicians that david martin mentioned , to take up this task .
for example , i was speaking recently with some very senior judges in germany who were clear , on the basis of the history and traditions of their country , that these matters should be contained in a justiciable charter .
but my own country has a very different tradition in this respect , as our own prime minister has made clear , and it is not part of the united kingdom ' s tradition to safeguard the citizen in this way .
family rights and protection that have been provided for in legislation elsewhere in this respect should be reproduced in the eu charter of fundamental rights .
it is clear that there is a great fear among many people , particularly the people who elected me , that this charter will override national constitutions , in particular as regards the support and protection of fundamental institutions such as family , marriage and the protection of life , born and unborn .
it is good to remember that europe has shared a common position throughout its history regarding the importance of supporting and protecting family and marriage .
this is enshrined in all our constitutions as well as the constitutions of those accession countries joining the european union in enlargement .
i welcome the reference in our charter to family life .
part 1 of article 9 states : " everyone shall have the right to found a family . "
it says it is inspired by article 12 of the european convention on human rights which states " men and women of marriageable age have the right to marry and found a family according to national laws . "
society recognises marriage not on moral grounds but because it recognises on a rational basis the stability it affords society socially and economically as well as securing future generations .
in the interests of best practice - and whilst it is increasingly difficult to define family and we need great sensitivity and compassion in this area - we should not throw away the traditional family unit as the fundamental unit we strive towards , indeed we should uphold it .
point 3 of article 9 states , " the union shall ensure the protection of children . "
i support this , but i would strongly suggest that we incorporate into the wording of point 3 that first and foremost , the union will support the family as the primary and natural educator and protector of the child as is their duty .
as it states in the convention , " the family as the fundamental group of society and natural environment for the growth and wellbeing of its members , particularly children , should be afforded the necessary protection and assistance to fully assume its responsibility within the community . "
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the current presidency of the european union believes that the plan to establish a charter of fundamental rights is an extremely important step in creating a community of values which will act as a focus for taking the process of political union further .
many people are wondering how far we can go in this process of establishing a standard set of values and principles in this way , which would guarantee every citizen within the union a set of rights that would strengthen their sense of belonging to an area with a shared civilisation .
the enlargement of the european union to cover new countries , which is an ethical imperative and an essential strategy for stability and peace in our continent , will unite us with states which have very diverse political cultures and which , in many cases , have young and untried institutions and structures .
do not think , however , that this idea of a charter or a body of principles is merely a type of safeguard mechanism in the face of new member states , that is to say a kind of defence against other countries .
this is a real problem and one of which we should all be aware .
we cannot run the risk that when this charter comes into force a new area of legal uncertainty will be created .
this also brings us to the issue , which has surfaced once again following amsterdam , of the union possibly signing up to the european convention on human rights .
we will have to accept the consequences whichever answer we opt for , and all the more so given that many of us genuinely feel that the institutions and the institutions alone are the real object of this new charter .
the charter of fundamental rights is , in this context , and this is how we shall view it until the end of our presidency , a vital element in producing a more balanced result at this conference , which will in fact also cover other issues , notably the issue of defence and security .
i am convinced that the union will accordingly accept its responsibilities towards the citizens of europe , and will take a political initiative with a view to addressing the future political and moral legitimacy of the european union itself .
the goal just outlined both by mr duff and mr voggenhuber and by the representative of the council presidency will require us to make every effort to ensure that work in the convention drafting the charter of fundamental rights is concluded in time to be taken into consideration , both by the intergovernmental conference and by the summit of heads of state and government at the end of this year .
once again , the commission would like to make four key points quite clear to parliament .
the first is that in broad terms , the commission agrees with and shares the european parliament ' s objectives with regard to the legal force of the charter , as regards calling for it to be incorporated into the treaties and as regards the full range of laws to be incorporated into the charter of fundamental rights .
the truth is that the commission , as stated in paragraph 14 of the resolution tabled by the european parliament , takes the view that the legal force of the charter should be determined by the nice european council .
however , the commission believes that the process of drafting the charter must yield a clear and concise text perfectly accessible to the european public , but which is also drafted in rigorous legal terms that can be accepted as legally binding .
although the court of justice of the european communities ruled in 1996 that the community could not sign the european convention on human rights , i must emphasise that it made such a ruling because there was no legal basis in the treaties for the community to do so .
there is no inherent contradiction between the union having a charter of fundamental rights and , at the same time , signing the european convention on human rights .
furthermore , i recommend that you carefully read the contribution of the observer representing the european court of human rights in the convention responsible for drafting the union ' s charter of fundamental rights .
in the statement by the court of human rights itself , the court ' s representative expresses his support for the idea that the union should have a charter of fundamental rights and , secondly , that the union should sign the european convention on human rights .
with regard to the issue of a conflict between the rulings of the court in strasbourg and rulings in luxembourg , it is worth noting that today , under community law , the court of justice of the european communities always refers to the european convention on human rights , to actual decisions by the european court of human rights , as the source of inspiration for decisions by the court of justice of the european communities on fundamental rights issues .
this means that we are not talking about a revolution , but merely about enshrining in law what is today already practised in the court of justice of the european communities in its relations with the european convention on human rights itself and the strasbourg court .
lastly , i would like to say that in our opinion , the european charter of fundamental rights is not intended to replace either national constitutions or the european convention on human rights .
i am sure that under this action plan , with closer collaboration between the commission and the european parliament , we will have a legal instrument that will banish the spectre created by the fear of contradictions and the spectre of the european superstate , but which will above all ensure that there is a legal system , based on fundamental rights , for the benefit of those on whose behalf we are all here - the citizens of our union .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
additional commission contribution to the igc the next item is the commission communication " additional commission contribution to the igc on institutional reform : qualified majority for taxation and social security aspects of the internal market . "
moreover , mr president , if i wish to do my job properly , i shall have to return to the committee at 5.45 p.m. , as scheduled , in order to present another matter which i am responsible for , to do with the community support framework for portugal , while at the same time i must also answer another question in the following debate .
i would like to offer a word of thanks to two of my fellow commissioners , frits bolkestein and anna diamantopoulou , for the support they have given me in drawing up this text .
i did mention before this house our intention to outline and clarify some aspects of this opinion at a later date .
we had identified five categories of exceptions to the general rule which we approved , according to which , within the union , decisions would henceforth be taken by qualified majority vote .
we had also excluded decisions incompatible with the objectives of the internal market or which may give rise to distortions of competition .
this is the point we have discussed today in order to complete our opinion .
ladies and gentlemen , i should first like to remind you that the proposals which you are to receive in a few moments , or in a few hours , do not include any transfer of jurisdiction , nor do they constitute an action programme in essence .
these proposals concern the methods for decision making in matters of taxation and social security .
ever since the treaty of rome , the treaties have provided for community action in both these areas .
in this matter , we are confronted with an important part of community legislation which has been developed since the 1970s .
the fact that the council may henceforth update this legislation by qualified majority , in order to take account of the development of , for example , e-commerce , can certainly not be considered a transfer of jurisdiction .
this is the first point that i wished to make clear .
the second point i would like to make is that the commission does not wish to impose the levelling of national tax systems or social security systems .
the matter we wish to deal with is how to maintain what already exists and share it with all the new member states .
let us not forget that in the exercise we are currently involved in , in these negotiations , it is a matter of knowing how the european union will operate with 18 , 20 , 25 , 27 or even 28 member states , in order to ensure that each of these states , the ones who are already members and the ones about to join us , may get the most out of the single market , a market whose treaties have made a driving force of the economic and social development of europe .
finally , the commission wishes to make it clear that this additional presentation does not encompass its entire programme for years to come in all areas .
the commission opinion issued on 26 january considered that , because they reflect the fundamental orientations of the national legislator in matters of economic and social policy and solidarity , taxation and social security are largely decisive in the national political choices of citizens .
the commission therefore considers it justifiable to retain unanimity in these areas as a basic principle .
but this first principle gives rise to a second , which is as follows : qualified majority to enable measures to be adopted which are more directly linked to the proper operation of the internal market .
we know , and you know , that some national legislation in the field of taxation and social security may , by virtue of its content or nature , have repercussions for the operation of the internal market .
the commission considers that the community must be able to adopt , by qualified majority , those measures which are most directly linked to the proper operation of the internal market .
that is the second principle .
finally , my third principle , we must in future select the best instrument to respect subsidiarity .
but this selection of the best instrument must be limited to that which is strictly necessary .
this is in any case , ladies and gentlemen , what has been going on for almost forty years in the field of social security .
still , before answering your questions , i would like briefly to mention the content of the proposals as you will read them .
regarding direct taxation , we propose the qualified majority in order to coordinate the campaign against fraud and tax evasion and in order to ensure proper handling of situations involving the legislations of several member states .
regarding indirect taxation , in order to combat fraud , and modernise and simplify the acquis in the light of economic developments , in order to take account of the objectives of the treaty in environmental matters , we propose to act by qualified majority decisions .
we further propose to retain unanimity for decisions on tax rates and the points of taxation .
my fourth point , this time , regarding the coordination of legislation in matters of social security , we propose qualified majority voting in order to update and adapt the conditions intended to avoid penalising people , not just workers .
finally , with regard to the minimum requirements for social security , there is one possibility that we propose to extend to social security , which already exists for other areas of social policy , which involves adopting minimum requirements by qualified majority vote .
mr president , let me just say one final word to explain the state of mind i have continued to work in , as we had done under president prodi in adopting our opinion on 26 january .
let me confirm , finally , that , in addition to this extra presentation , i shall be returning to this house to give further presentations of the commission opinion on the whole of the reform of the european institutions prior to enlargement , as we did on 26 january .
mr president , firstly i would like to welcome the commission 's approach in general to the igc .
it is something that affects member states and their people in a very sensitive way and we have to be careful before the community moves into these fields .
similarly , the issue of harmonisation against coordination : one man 's coordination can be another 's harmonisation and we need clear definitions of what is coordination and what is harmonisation if this is to work .
i wish him well in this area because it is an area in which we need a breakthrough .
just now , ladies and gentlemen , i expressed my concern in this document , and in the discussions we will be having , to avoid ideology , to keep to a precise approach .
so let me repeat that our watchword was to say that qualified majority should be extended to everything that directly affected the operation of the internal market and which might compromise its proper operation in an enlarged europe .
further to this general answer , with thanks for your remarks , i shall be attentive to your criticisms or your proposals when you have had time to peruse this document .
we all know of course that the european parliament takes the clear view that qualified majority voting must apply as the rule and unanimity as the exception .
nonetheless , you have asked me , broadly speaking , whether the great vat modernisation project might be adopted with your proposals by qualified majority ?
finally , i would like to thank professor tsatsos for having mentioned the connection between these proposals and the role of the european parliament .
since i have been given the opportunity , let me confirm that one of the commission proposals is to associate codecision directly to all measures decided by qualified majority as soon as legislative measures are involved .
it is evident that in these matters affecting the internal market and its proper operation - social security or taxation - there are legitimate grounds for the european parliament to express its opinion and adopt a position .
mr president , commissioner barnier , i am extremely pleased that the commission has produced this initiative .
commissioner , you are proceeding with the utmost caution , and that is an approach which i support .
with reference to the argument of subsidiarity , i should simply like to tell you that , in my opinion , it is also important to put forward the argument of citizenship in fiscal matters .
the concept of citizenship is common property , on behalf of which we must move beyond failures such as helsinki .
my second question is : does the instrument that you are proposing in the area of environmental taxation provide for qualified majority voting ?
my third question is : would the instrument you are proposing enable the council to put an end , by qualified majority decision , to the tax havens which exist within the european union ?
i am sure that none of us here will object to fraud and tax evasion being tackled but i must say that it is necessary to maintain the confidence of citizens in the union , and i think that many member state governments will be wishing to look very carefully at any extension of qmv before agreeing to it .
we are very happy to combat fraud and tax evasion and to improve social security legislation , but there are some points where there will be difficulty in convincing all the member states to follow .
mr president , i can imagine that according to some members , the citizens are sensitive to european intervention in tax and social matters .
i can tell you that in my country , many citizens lie awake at night , worrying about the fact that europe leaves social and tax matters well alone on account of this unanimity .
in order to facilitate the task of reforming the institutions , we wish to distinguish the everyday administration of policies ( the normal work of the commission , and we have regular meetings on the subject ) from the reform in the context of the accession of thirteen new member states .
obviously , the monti package is related to the proper operation of the internal market .
we do wish to include them as beneficiaries of social policy ( articles 42 and 137 , which are to be subject to qualified majority voting ) .
once again , regardless of ideological considerations , we have reordered the paragraphs of the new article 137 in order to subject to qualified majority voting everything which affects , from our objective point of view , the proper operation of the internal market : social security and protection of workers , worker protection in the event of cancellation of the work contract , collective representation and defence of the interests of workers , including codetermination , working conditions for third country nationals legally resident on community territory , and financial contributions for the promotion of employment and job creation without prejudice to the terms of the social fund .
we should form a community , and i do not feel that we can subsequently come back to this sensitive issue if we do not resolve it now .
we therefore propose that it should be possible to adopt these minimum requirements by qualified majority vote , and not by unanimity , in all the areas i have mentioned .
we wish to initiate this debate , and to fuel and feed it on the basis of these proposals , as i undertook , in order to facilitate to some extent , the difficult negotiations within the intergovernmental conference .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0201 / 2000 ) .
that position recalled that the fisheries agreement which expired in november 1999 applied to morocco 's fishing zone which is defined as waters over which morocco has sovereignty or jurisdiction .
this definition does not in any way affect the status of western sahara and its coastal waters .
this is a matter which falls under international law , and in particular various un resolutions , and the responsibility of the un secretary-general , whose efforts to find a just , equitable and durable solution have been consistently supported by the european union .
however , according to international law , it should be considered that morocco has control over that territory , although it in no way has sovereignty over it .
i agree absolutely that we should reach a fisheries agreement with morocco which is favourable to the interests of the european union fishing fleet , in particular the spanish fishing industry .
as i am sure the honourable gentleman knows , we strongly support that initiative and if there is any way that we can assist the un secretary-general , then we would certainly want to do so .
as they deal with the same subject , questions nos 40 and 113 will be taken together , at the request of the commission .
question no 40 by ( h-0241 / 00 ) : subject : landmines in a recent statement in the un general assembly the council presidency stated that the eu remains the main contributor to de-mining programmes worldwide .
over the past eight years , european community support for mine action has exceeded eur 180 million .
the funding of mine action from the geographic programmes and their budget lines will continue .
mine clearance and other forms of mine action are often a preliminary step to any sensible development programme .
therefore they should form part of national or regional reconstruction and rehabilitation plans .
the new regulation and the special budget line will support and complement the geographic line by providing the overall policy framework and by functioning as a general reserve and a source for funding for international programmes .
the resources available for eu mine actions should remain at least at the same level in real terms as we have achieved over the last few years , that is about eur 30 million a year .
finally , the european union is recognised as one of the leading contributors to mine action within the international community .
the entry into force of the ottawa convention a year ago provided us with a forceful new instrument and a set of ambitious targets for the years to come .
with the funding and coordinating mechanism under the new regulation and communication , we are well placed to take on that challenge .
i only have one additional question , which is whether the commissioner would submit to us an annual report on the commission ' s actions in this field ? - the new regulation provides for the commission to submit an annual report to the council and to parliament on its actions the previous year by 30 april of the following year .
a breakdown of the mine-action funding per country by the european union from 1992 to 1999 , as well as for projects in the last year , is attached to the communication and we will continue to provide that sort of financial information as well .
thank you very much , commissioner , for this comprehensive answer .
we intend establishing a multi-annual work plan .
i should like to mention one other area which is of concern to them , even though they are not always so directly involved in it , namely the whole area of research , on which we spent eur 17 million out of more than eur 40 million in the last full year in 1998 .
they have a great deal to contribute to this important work .
question no 41 by ( h-0212 / 00 ) : subject : ' dialogue on europe ' initiative the president of the commission intends to launch this initiative on 8 march 2000 .
the commission considers that all the institutional matters liable to have a connection with the work of the intergovernmental conference should in fact come within the scope of the debate which has been initiated .
this dialogue on europe will be developed with all national and regional institutions , but also with opinion formers , the media and organisations in civil society .
as on other occasions , such as the intergovernmental conference of 1996 , this parliament must offer the commission its support in order to monitor information activities .
last wednesday we had a very successful launch of the european information campaign involving commissioners and members of the european parliament .
i would like the commissioner to reassure me that , when the campaign is decentralised , information offices in the member states will involve members of the european parliament in the information campaign as a matter of course .
the commission does intend to involve members of the european parliament at grass roots level in the dialogue on europe initiative .
indeed , no later than this evening there is to be a coordination meeting between the commission administration and that of the european parliament in order to determine the practicalities of the approach to be adopted .
the simple answer , mr president , is ' yes ' .
this report formed the basis for the overall assessment of the fifth environmental action programme .
this is largely due to the fact that rapid growth in a number of economic sectors is ruining our endeavours to reduce the impact on the environment .
the commission awaits the european parliament ' s opinion on its overall assessment and will put forward its proposals for the sixth environmental action programme - to be drawn up on the basis of the positions adopted - by the end of this year .
of course , the european parliament appreciates the commission ' s efforts to promote community policy on environmental protection and , especially , its efforts to incorporate the environmental dimension into all policies , i.e .
second part mr trakatellis , the agreement between the commission and the government of bulgaria that was signed on 29 november 1999 is in line with the policy that the commission tends to pursue .
the agreement concluded between the bulgarian government and the commission provides for units 1 and 2 of the nuclear power station at kozloduy to be conclusively shut down before 2003 .
in addition , provision is made for the government of bulgaria to reach agreement with the commission in the year 2002 on deadlines for shutting down units 3 and 4 of the same power station .
all four units will be shut down earlier than the dates that the bulgarian government originally had in mind , which were 2004 and 2005 for kozloduy 1 and 2 , and between 2008 and 2010 for units 3 and 4 .
the commission is working on the assumption that the final shut down of the two reactors 3 and 4 will take place in 2006 at the latest .
the commission is offering to provide bulgaria with several years of extensive aid , so as to help the country overcome any problems arising from the shutdown .
the various components of the aforementioned agreement form an integrated whole .
in order to ensure full implementation of the agreement , we will not confirm our undertaking to provide the second tranche of the grants until we have reached conclusive agreement on shutdown dates for units 3 and 4 .
on 4 february 2000 , the joint working group on kozloduy comprising representatives from the commission and from bulgaria , met in sofia .
this joint working group agreed to draft a work schedule for the shutdown of units 1 and 2 , by may or june 2000 , and to put forward a political framework and potential projects in the energy sector that are to be financed by the aid package .
the commission will continue to work together with the bulgarian government to implement the agreement of last november .
mr trakatellis , opinion is extremely divided as to how unsafe the reactors 3 and 4 actually are .
as a matter of fact , i believe we achieved a particularly positive outcome in bulgaria , in view of the extremely difficult situation there .
as far as the shutdown dates for blocks 3and 4 are concerned , it says in the text that this will be decided on in 2002 .
the fact that the bulgarian government signed this text without questioning this , has a certain political significance .
the european community initiative intended to offer free access to the markets of industrialised countries , and the most advanced developing countries , to essentially all products of the least developed countries , was launched as part of the process which led to the seattle conference .
the initiative was drawn up immediately after the singapore conference , when the council invited the commission to make proposals in favour of the least developed countries , both for immediate action and additional medium-term action .
in 1999 , as part of the post-lome negotiations , the council , among other things , specified what it intended to do regarding market access for lldcs and decided that the community should , in the year 2000 , commence a process which , by the end of the multilateral trade negotiations and by the year 2005 at the latest , will enable free access for essentially all lldc products , based on the trade system existing under the lome convention .
the difference between all and essentially all products affects , as we well know , a number of specific agricultural products .
at the same time , the community , in its ' least developed countries ' initiative within the framework of the wto , seeks to associate other commercial partners to this market opening policy of ours , which would consist of exempting essentially all the products of lldcs from duties and quotas .
at the moment i am making great efforts to move forward this initiative which we have included in the rescue package which we are working on in geneva .
as the questioner indicates , we should ask whether the restriction associated with the expression ' essentially all products ' may be retained for very much longer as soon as we consider granting these countries total access to our markets .
as far as the community is concerned , following the signature of a new agreement with the acp countries which no longer includes the obligation to offer equal access for all acp countries , we could in fact start thinking about more extensive liberalisation of access to our markets in favour of the least developed countries .
i should not , however , wish to start thinking about this until our present initiative regarding essentially all products has reached a sufficiently advanced and credible stage , following talks with our commercial partners , to be able to move on to the next stage .
i should specify , finally , that access to the market is not the only requirement for countries that , occasionally , do not have a sufficient export capacity for internal reasons , be they distribution , logistical or transportation capacities .
i certainly agree with what he said in the last part of his answer about the need for capacity-building in the least developed countries as well as , perhaps the need for asymmetrical measures , resulting in a certain level of protection for their markets that we do not seek to enjoy in return .
firstly , i think i gave a clear answer to your question when i said that the difference between ' all ' and ' essentially all ' affected only a really very limited number of agricultural products .
regarding the more comprehensive initiative that we have undertaken , i would like to try to convince you that at this stage it is more important , as far as these least developed countries are concerned , that the community should persuade the united states , japan and a number of developed countries to follow our initiative because , in terms of real export capacity , this initiative opens up a market to them which is , roughly , twice or three times larger than our own .
in terms of our priorities , then , mr howitt , and in terms of efficiency , i feel that , given the choice of either eliminating the difference between ' essentially all ' and ' all ' , a problem which i acknowledge must be solved one day , and considerably increasing the size of the market opened for ' essentially all ' products , duty free and quota free , we are on the right track if we work , in the first place , on expanding the market .
thereafter we will be able to start to think , as you wish , on the approach we might adopt with the member states , who sometimes show some reluctance , and a european parliament which will also have to be convinced , when the time comes , that we should go on to the second stage .
the fact remains , however , that at this stage they are no more than proposals and the commission cannot contravene the regulations in force under the treaty establishing the communities , nor can it anticipate the decisions which the member states will take at the intergovernmental conference .
this would mean that parliament should have the opportunity , pursuant to article 300 , to declare its opinion on this agreement .
this is the legal and institutional answer to your question , mr clegg .
i have said this on several occasions , and i feel it is important in terms of relations between the commission and parliament and also in terms of the effectiveness and capacity of the negotiator in this type of case .
i am therefore perfectly willing , as always , to discuss this matter in somewhat greater depth with the relevant parliamentary committee .
let me reiterate my appreciation that the commission and parliament are , for the first time , speaking with one voice on changes to parliament 's role in important trade agreements .
my own view is that the accession of china to the wto , whilst perhaps not quite as eye-catching as a multilateral agreement , is just as important to the future global trade regime , and that a similarly political position might therefore be taken by both parliament and the commission .
as regards china , legally speaking this is the procedure for the accession of a country to the wto , and it is proceeding according to a relatively appropriate and familiar route , one which , for the time being , has not given rise to any disputes .
i suppose , then , that the council will be reluctant to require assent because the council is not in the habit of going much further than is required by the treaties in terms of consultation with parliament .
the important thing , from our mutual point of view , is that , when the time comes , we can , either in committee or in plenary session , have a debate on the conditions which , i hope , will be those we have agreed with the people ' s republic of china , and that this will be completely transparent .
there is another , more technical reason , involving some subtle points .
these are more technical considerations , but they show that all these aspects must be looked into and negotiated in detail .
thank you very much , mr lamy .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the commission is unable to give a concrete answer to mrs izquierdo rojo ' s question , at the current stage of negotiations .
although i have signed this question , as an elected representative , i must say that i am not really its author .
the commissioner has not been explicit .
since state and local administrations are preparing their proposals for the 2000-2006 period , will the commission say what has been the take-up rate of the first two programmes by greece , and how does it rate the success of the two previous leader programmes in the case of greece ?
mr president , the leader i programme in greece , which ran from 1993 to 1996 , was fully implemented and the funding earmarked for this - eur 104 million in total , eur 52 million of which was contributed by the community - was paid out in full .
the success rate of leader i in greece also proved satisfactory , in view of the programme ' s innovative and even-handed approach .
question no 50 by ( h-0190 / 00 ) : subject : balance between fisheries agreements in the north and south the fisheries council of october 1997 analysed the imbalance between fisheries agreements in the north and south , given that shipowners fishing under agreements with countries of the south are increasingly required to co-finance the agreements , which are free of charge for shipowners in the case of the north .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in principle , the commission takes the view that the fishing opportunities granted by a third country under the terms of a fisheries agreement should be utilised in full , and that appropriate mechanisms for transferring under-utilised or non-utilised quotas should be established without jeopardising the principle of relative stability .
that is why , despite all our efforts , the legal mechanisms that come under community law and that make it possible , in principle , for quotas to be transferred in this way , could not be brought into force yet .
when you talk in terms of an imbalance between the agreements with third countries in the northern hemisphere and those in the southern hemisphere , i feel i must make you aware of the following situation : the community and the member states do not pay a licence fee in the case of agreements with third countries in the north because said countries do not ask for one , rather these agreements - with the exception of the agreement with greenland - are reciprocal , in other words , a fish for a fish , and have no effect whatsoever on the community budget .
incidentally , licence fees of this kind were a feature of the bilateral agreements between spain and third countries even before spain joined the community .
under these , our opportunities are expressed directly in terms of the number of fishing vessels or even licences .
i have asked a question because i previously consulted a series of decisions taken by the council of ministers in 1997 on certain guidelines for fisheries agreements and , as far as i can see , they have not yet been complied with in the european union .
in response to the urgent need for stocks of fallen timber to be disposed of , the french government has , amongst other measures , decided to grant 50 french francs per tonne in order to subsidise the transportation of timber intended for export to other eu member states .
however , the notifications make no reference whatsoever to where the wood is destined for , in particular , they do not indicate whether it is to be exported to other member states or to third countries .
obviously such aid is already officially provided for in the countries of the community .
instead , the question concerns countries outside the territory of the community , and may be expressed thus : will we , or will we not , have the possibility of obtaining a derogation in terms of the tonnage , costs or time limits with regard to wood exports , in consideration of the quite exceptional nature of this storm ?
my question clearly concerned exports outside the common market , outside the union .
the only exception in this respect is spain , where , in view of the high number of applications , the take-up rate , if i can put it this way , was 98 % rather than 100 % .
the amended regulation on preventive distillation will be published in the official journal in the near future and will be made retrospective to 24 february .
commissioner , in view of the enormous wine harvest , which yielded 140 million hectolitres , and in view of the wine market regulations that are to enter into force this year , has the commission had any more thoughts - this being the last year when we will have this option - about using obligatory distillation as a means of relieving pressure on the market , or does the commission not take the view that this would be the subject of a further instrument ?
thank you very much , mr fischler .
questions nos 53 to 60 will be replied to in writing .
the commission has also confirmed that if the two countries in question agree , it will support the inclusion of the line in the trans-european rail network when the guidelines for that network are next revised .
in fact , these two extremes of the pyrenees are suffering from saturation since they are the only real land links of any capacity between the iberian peninsula and the rest of the european continent .
we in the commission have expressed our support for the analysis of a new rail crossing in the central part of the pyrenees and we have supported various initiatives in the region through the granting of subsidies for different studies analysing the possibilities .
furthermore , as you know very well , spain and france have set up a monitoring centre for traffic in the pyrenees in order to seek the most suitable solution to the problem facing them .
in any event , the final decision in this respect is the responsibility of the member states .
with regard to the trans-european networks we cannot include anything which is not supported by the member states .
meanwhile , i would like to tell you that the commission will take account of the results of the work of the monitoring centre for traffic in the pyrenees when reviewing the trans-european network and we hope that this review will be ready before august .
the conclusions of this study that we are carrying out will also be taken into account in the revision of the guidelines on the trans-european networks and , furthermore , the interreg ii programme has also financed general studies on the suitability and viability of a future central crossing in the pyrenees , adapted to heavy goods transport .
having said all this , and as i have made very clear in some of my appearances , i believe that we must make an enormous effort to develop goods transport by rail .
we face a level of demand which is clearly not going to be resolved by means of an increase in roads and we need to study a better use of the rail infrastructures , which is an alternative which is not only much more appropriate from an environmental point of view , but furthermore , they are an alternative which allow us to use some existing infrastructures .
in other cases , such as the specific case we are talking about , we must put the infrastructures in order , but of course we are prepared to speak to the member states - and we are doing so - to see if we can persuade the two countries involved to finally accept a project of this type which will allow for a central crossing in the pyrenees .
i would also like to know , since you have mentioned it , when the commission communication on the report on the alps and the pyrenees will be made available ?
this does not only affect spain , as the bordering country , but it also affects road traffic to portugal , given that the pyrenees pose such an obstacle .
the communication on sensitive areas basically tackles the issue of how to combine two elements : the environmental demands of the pyrenees and the alps and the need to facilitate the movement of goods and people .
as i have already said , we intend to present the communication before the end of the year , and we also intend to analyse , not only the particular issues affecting the sensitive areas , but also the possible concrete solutions in the field of more suitable infrastructures , funding , use and safety .
safety aspects are also important , given the use of extensive tunnels .
question no 62 by ( h-0163 / 00 ) : subject : blood / alcohol limits for drivers since 1988 , the commission has been advocating community legislation concerning maximum blood alcohol limits for drivers .
i must point out however that , although the commission intends to express this type of guideline , it will do so by means of a recommendation .
alcohol constitutes the second greatest danger to health in the eu according to a report on health produced by a high-level working party .
the 0.8 mg limit is only in force in ireland , luxembourg , italy and the united kingdom , and only sweden has a limit below 0.5 mg .
we are going to present a communication on road safety , which you in this parliament will receive shortly , and recommend a maximum limit of 0.5 mg .
we consider that legislation should be reserved for cases where it is absolutely necessary to legislate .
we believe that subsidiarity and the recommendation will be sufficient for the alcohol level in the various states to be set at 0.5 mg or less than 0.5 mg .
as we are talking about blood-alcohol levels i wonder if the commissioner , in her recommendation is also going to be looking at the broader issue of drugs ?
the problem is obviously that drugs produce states which clearly limit drivers ' response capacities .
the problem with drugs is that , while in some countries their consumption is subject to criminal prosecution , in others it is not and , therefore , given this differing treatment , we cannot , at least for the moment , make any progress in this field .
lastly , i must add that , in the case of drugs , control is more difficult , since the control systems are not so automatic nor so immediate as they are in the case of alcohol levels .
question no 63 by ( h-0164 / 00 ) : subject : verona-munich railway link the project for a new verona-munich through railway line has been under discussion for years .
the project for a railway line between munich and verona , agreed by the italian , austrian and german governments in 1994 , is included in the trans-european transport network and foresees the construction of a high speed network with combined goods transport .
the proposal of the att 3 project , which is well known to the commission , deviates from the route established in the guidelines of the trans-european network .
mr president , i would expressly like to thank the commissioner for the great sensitivity she has shown so far in her handling of the brenner traffic and brenner base tunnel issues , and i particularly appreciate the fact that mention has repeatedly been made of the need to give special consideration to the environmental implications .
i would point out that the alternative project att3 - and i would like to thank commissioner kinnock and the chairman , mr coleman , for their efforts here - has been examined closely and in great detail by the commission over the past two years , and i have also received a written report on this .
this is all about people living in a sensitive area who must be protected .
the brenner project is one of 14 projects involving trans-european transport connections and , of course , the commission will continue to support this project , although , at the end of the day , it is the member states which must develop it .
thank you very much , commissioner .
since the time allotted to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions nos 64 to 114 will be replied to in writing .
the european eco-label is , it has to be said , a product of the internal market .
in addition to a reduction in costs for certain enterprises , the report also envisages a maximum fee .
in this we are following the example of almost all the national labelling systems , which also have this ceiling .
the purpose of this approach is to make the labelling system equally attractive to large consumer goods manufacturers and service providers .
another important point in this second reading is the regulation of the relationship between the national eco-label and the european equivalent .
in some states national labels are well established and enjoy public recognition .
mr president , commissioner , a speaker in this house yesterday expressed the view that economic globalisation is not an incontrovertible necessity but the evil outworking of a few multinationals .
take the failed wto negotiations in seattle , which have opened our eyes as to the difficulty europe faces in making itself heard by third countries when it comes to its progressive social and environmental standards .
it would have afforded the opportunity to disseminate the european label even more quickly and effectively .
overall , we must succeed in establishing the european label in member states which do not have their own label .
i am totally convinced that , wherever there are well-functioning eco-labelling systems , it will be possible also to introduce the eu flower that much more easily and more quickly .
it is therefore especially important that the idea of prohibiting national eco-labels has been abandoned .
moreover , this system functions excellently where it has been introduced .
with regard to amendments nos 1 , 4 and 8 , which propose active participation on the part of environmental and consumer organisations , the commission shares the view that their support and participation is crucial if eco-labelling is to be balanced and credible .
we are therefore able to accept these amendments .
with regard to amendments nos 2 , 3 and 7 , which relate to certain aspects of cooperation and coordination with national eco-labelling programmes , the commission is convinced that common supporting activities are important , particularly with a view to making the community ' s eco-labelling better known .
this applies , for example , to amendments 7 and 8 .
the services are looking at this and i hope that they will be ready in time for tomorrow .
we cannot allow the debate to continue because we are running out of time .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
incineration of waste the next item is the recommendation for a second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on the incineration of waste ( c5-0274 / 1999 - 1998 / 0289 ( cod ) ) .
mr president , commissioner , first of all , i would like to thank the members for their fruitful cooperation .
as a result of this , we have been able to table various amendments in a joint effort and reach agreement on a number of issues .
once we have reached a point where , in order to counter the adverse effects on the environment , dangerous and organic waste , in particular , is no longer dumped , incineration should then inevitably deliver environmental benefits .
by tightening up emission standards , a balance was struck at first reading between what is viable over a period of about five to seven years and what is necessary from an environmental point of view .
compliance requires adequate control which , in turn , requires proper monitoring .
in addition , we also need to avoid a situation where it becomes clear there are long-term health risks for a reason which may not be immediately obvious , namely that the emission of harmful substances is not measured .
regarding the definition of coincineration plant , it is unfortunate that we were unable to reach agreement on this beforehand .
if waste were used as a replacement raw material , such as in the recycling of glass , the relevant process would fall outside the scope of the directive .
if , on the other hand , only part of the waste were to be used as a replacement raw material , then this process would fall within the directive ' s scope .
as for the recycling of energy , i would like to point out that , in november of last year , the european parliament adopted a resolution on the integration of environmental concerns into energy policy , in which it was requested that special attention be given to the application and development of the best methods for energy recycling .
consequently , the committee on the environment , public health and consumer protection has made a recommendation that energy recycling by means of combined electricity / heat production should also apply to the incineration of waste .
it is wrong , however , that the standards for ammonia should not apply to all installations .
a consistent approach taken by the european parliament will benefit our credibility amongst the citizens , especially those citizens living in the vicinity of plants which incinerate or co-incinerate waste .
mr president , commissioner , we feel that this directive is far from satisfactory because it involves a combination of two texts , one on the incineration of dangerous waste and the other on the incineration of non-dangerous waste .
the practices of each member state must be taken into consideration , while maintaining the existing industrial balance and investigating how the environment can be better protected .
what the industry needs is legal certainty and reasonable time periods .
commissioner , waste management in europe must undergo complete reform as a matter of urgency .
we know that waste incineration is a very difficult and highly technical area , but i think that a creditable piece of work has been done in connection with this report .
i shall certainly support the demand that proper waste planning be carried out , with waste being duly sorted , so that we have a situation in which waste incineration is linked to the eu ' s combined waste legislation , with the incineration problem correctly placed in the waste hierarchy .
i also think it is good that we should now be told very precisely which plants are covered by these rules and also which types of waste are thus exempt from them .
i think that defensible levels have been identified in this connection , and a reasonable balance has been struck between incineration plants proper and the combined plants .
it is a balance that i hope will be maintained , including during the vote tomorrow here in the plenary sitting .
i hope therefore that , by means of the vote tomorrow , we can make our contribution to solving the health and environmental problems involved in waste incineration so that the enormous quantities of waste which we produce every single day do not cause more serious health problems or greater damage to the environment than is absolutely necessary .
obviously , the eu must create a sustainable system for protecting air , land and water .
with the predicted increase in incineration , it is vital that overall eu legislation on waste disposal and on air quality is consistent and comprehensive .
building new incinerators is a costly and long-term venture which in turn has to have a long-term return for the investors , so it would be in their interests for waste to continue to be burned .
this parliament must protect the health and quality of life of the people that we represent .
there is no safe threshold for dioxin emissions and more research is being done on the effects of micro-particles on human health and the environment .
it is a fact that left and right do not often see eye to eye on many issues - rightly and understandably so - both within and outside this parliament , as they represent opposing interests and visions of groups in our society .
regrettably , our consumer society is contributing to an increasing volume of domestic waste and there is also growing concern in relation to industrial waste .
thankfully there is now an awareness among citizens of the importance of protecting the natural environment , and in my view the social and economic climate is conducive to achieving this objective .
in previous debates i referred to the need to reduce waste : here the manufacturers of food and consumer goods have an important role to play , particularly in relation to packaging in its various forms and the importance of using products compatible with recycling , which is of course my preferred option .
while incineration is getting a lot of adverse publicity , and recent planning decisions in ireland have certainly raised the crucial question of the location of incinerators , it is difficult to envisage a complete programme of waste disposal without incineration , particularly in relation to toxic waste , and in this regard consideration must be given to finding locations where the facility will not impact badly on the natural environment .
finally , mr president , it is obvious we need further informed debates in helping to allay the citizens ' concern on the health aspect of incineration , a matter which has been addressed through extensive research carried out in various member states and through the experience gained in the many state-of-the-art facilities now in operation throughout europe .
mr president , commissioner , firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work .
the recommendation for second reading before us is an extremely important legislative resolution , not just for the environment but also for the economy of the european union .
i think this can be seen from some of the amendments which were put forward in committee with regard to coincineration and which now reappear as amendments in plenary .
however , i think that there are still some amendments decided on in committee which we can support in good conscience in order to improve the common position .
for example , i tabled a motion in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy relating to nox emitted during coincineration which , at least for new installations , is somewhat more ambitious than the council ' s proposals .
parliament 's objective in waste management strategy is not to constantly tighten rules on existing incinerating plant , it is to change the role of waste management , to change the type of waste management that we do .
we would be much better concentrating our efforts in the next few years on recycling , re-use and other methods of reducing the waste heap .
mr president , i certainly agree with mr bowe 's final summary .
many of us believe that any government in our country will encourage the construction of waste incinerators as an alternative to encouraging the alternatives .
it is very important that we get our act right , that we look first and foremost at waste management .
we have to look at the root causes of why the waste is there in the first place .
mr president , the amendments by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy underline generally the high levels of environmental protection , and for that reason many of these amendments are acceptable .
in finland and some other countries the sorting of waste in close proximity to where it originates is very advanced .
thus , we do not incinerate mixed waste , as they do in certain countries .
sorted waste can be incinerated effectively together with other fuels in a so-called coincineration process .
for that reason , amendments nos 14 , 17 , 18 and 27 should not be adopted .
mr president , the treatment of waste and the whole policy on waste is becoming an ever more important part of eu environmental policy .
the commission ' s proposal is not a total response to this idea , and is rather based on the notion that everything must and can be burnt .
the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy added the necessary amendments to promote the waste hierarchy to its common position in its second reading , and i hope that these points of view will also be adopted in tomorrow ' s vote .
if more stringent requirements regarding emissions are being illogically imposed on the use of waste as fuel than for other fuels , fuels classified as waste will cease to be used .
it is important that parliament amends the proposal for the directive in this respect in accordance with the committee ' s amendment .
the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy adopted some proposals that , if realised , would make it harder to practise ecologically justified coincineration .
i therefore approve of the european union ' s approach which is to adopt an overall strategy in relation to this major environmental and health issue .
nonetheless , personally speaking , i have always been rather worried to see the incineration of dangerous and non-dangerous waste dealt with in the same legislation , and i expressed my opinion on this point at first reading .
the volume of waste to be incinerated is going to be significantly increased .
the debate has focused on coincineration .
in conclusion , while mentioning that penalties must be applied in cases of non-compliance and perhaps also that support should be provided for the authorities modifying their household waste incinerators to comply with the standards , it is still essential to stress that our top priority is , and must continue to be , avoiding the creation of this type of waste and recycling as much as possible .
mr president , we all know that disposing of waste in an environmentally friendly manner and utilising its energy by means of the latest technology is a requirement of our time and wholly appropriate .
the aim of the directive is to establish emission levels which ensure harmless and environmentally friendly incineration of both dangerous and non-dangerous waste in incineration and coincineration plants without presenting any risk to human health .
in practice , amendment no 11 would also mean that many halogenated substances , for example pvc , which frequently occurs in mixed domestic waste , would be excluded from incineration in waste incineration plants .
millions have already been spent on measures to reduce energy consumption .
the first is the impact of this directive on the existing specialist toxic waste incineration industry .
these incinerators have to adhere to higher standards than the coincineration plants .
the proposed directive on waste incineration goes to the heart of environmental legislation : the protection of public health .
i should like to remind you that there already exists a directive on a waste hierarchy .
articles 12 and 15 of the proposal concern access to information and reporting .
infectious animal waste is not covered by the scope of this directive in its common position form because it is covered by directive 90 / 667 .
the adoption of amendment no 4 to article 2 ( 2 ) might give the commission the chance to revise the text so as to include a specific exclusion for infectious animal waste .
as things stand all other animal waste is covered by article 2 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( v ) of the directive and directive 90 / 667 .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon .
this report sets national targets for ozone levels and proposes action plans for dealing with local problems of exceedance .
to save time i am going to assume that the respiratory and other health problems associated with ozone are understood , and that every member of this house will want to reduce them .
in particular , representatives of the mediterranean countries point out problems resulting from the strong sunlight they enjoy .
but the commission 's 120 mg target is in line with world health organisation proposals , and who am i to suggest that they should be challenged ?
the number of days of exceedance could easily be adjusted , but that is something to negotiate only when necessary .
it is a good target and , if it is at all possible , then it should be retained .
there is absolutely no doubt that in tightening up or adopting the ozone directive we must find a reasonable compromise between the justifiable demand for improved air quality and the possibility for european economy and society to reasonably adapt in particularly polluted regions .
mr president , commissioner , i agree that the most important difficulty with this directive is the diversity of criteria with regard to the establishment of target levels and time-scales for the reduction of the ozone concentrations in the atmosphere : the famous items 2 and 3 of annex 1 .
we in the group of the european people ' s party consider it necessary to support the main lines set in the commission ' s proposal , especially with regard to target levels , which coincide with the guidelines of the world health organisation on air quality and which establish the permissible concentrations of ozone at 120 g / m3 .
nevertheless , it seems to us to be inadvisable to accept the amendments which make 2010 the time limit , the only one in the short term , and set 2020 as the time limit for long term objectives .
our group therefore vigorously defends amendments nos 26 and 28 , which establish a progressive and realistic achievement of the proposed objectives , by means of a progressive scale according to the number of days in a year the target levels can be exceeded .
i believe that a vote in favour of the amendments proposed by the european people ' s party is a vote for progress in the control and monitoring of one of the most serious pollutants to date , initiating , in a decisive and homogenous way , in all the member states , actions for its elimination as a threat to the health of persons and ecosystems , without deluding ourselves as to the real possibilities of completely eradicating it in the short term .
i think there are two crucial points here .
the second thing i think is very important is that specific dates should be set , both for when in 2010 we are to achieve the provisional targets and for when in 2020 we are to attain the long-term objectives .
the european commission ' s proposal has made a lot of headway in this direction .
i am convinced that these two reports together provide a sound basis for positive developments in europe in the fields of health and the environment .
the climate in southern europe is often used as a reason for , or explanation of , the high levels of ozone which are often to be found in the summertime .
the directive on national emission ceilings , which is the next point on the agenda , will lead to improvements in ozone levels so that the target values in question might for the most part be attained .
we cannot , however , accept that short-term measures should only be taken at local level .
nor do we believe that the member states should be enjoined to analyse whether short-term measures are an effective tool in each individual case and in each individual place where the threshold value has been exceeded .
amendment no 12 can be approved in principle .
the principle in amendment no 16 is also acceptable .
amendment no 2 advocates coordination between member states and applicant states .
even if the commission agrees that it is important to involve the applicant states , there is no reason for reiterating this in a directive aimed at the member states .
these programmes stated as their aim the protection of people and nature from the adverse effects of air pollution , meaning that critical ceilings in respect of nature and people would not be exceeded .
the commission ' s proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings is an important step in achieving the aims the union set itself : to protect its citizens from the adverse effects of air pollutants .
owing to this , i have recommended in my report a long-term goal , in addition to the interim one , and a final target for 2020 .
the un economic commission for europe has also examined the objectives for reductions in the same sources of emissions as in the proposal for a directive now under discussion , and , as a result of these talks , the so-called gothenburg protocol was signed .
comparing the differences between the gothenburg protocol and the commission ' s proposal with regard to the effects on health , the annual reduction levels proposed by the commission would save the lives of as many as four thousand people a year in europe .
mr president , the industry committee , after much discussion and serious consideration , is overwhelmingly opposed to the commission 's proposed ceilings , and this is across all groups and nationalities .
the un ceilings are quite ambitious enough for us to reach our internationally agreed targets in reasonable time .
the commission can then concentrate on ensuring this occurs , on perfecting the models that are used and perhaps come up with new proposals in two or three years ' time on the basis of much more convincing arguments regarding the relevant costs and benefits .
support the purvis amendments and the united nations gothenburg table of national emission ceilings .
the present draft directive on national emission ceilings tackles the key culprits where atmospheric pollution is concerned .
these goals must be met by 2010 , with an interim assessment of the national programmes in 2006 .
indeed , un agreements are always less ambitious due to the fact that it is difficult for the situation in rich , prosperous and hence often more polluting countries to be lumped together with the situation in the developing world .
add this to the fact that the environmental effects of so2 , nox and the volatile organic substances , in particular , directly affect our own continent , i - and the majority in our group , i think - can go along with the commission proposal regarding these substances .
in addition , the effects of ammonia emissions are partly local and , as such , a lower threshold seems acceptable .
on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party and european democrats , i have tabled an amendment which , where ammonia is concerned , is based on the lower gothenburg standard and defers definitively setting the ceiling until the year 2006 .
the reason for this is that i hope that , by then , the effects of the implementation and the pending european legislation on nitrate will be able to give us better indications .
i would like to conclude by making the following comment : legislation on ceilings is , in actual fact , the counterpart of legislation on large furnaces , for which i also happen to be rapporteur .
i do not know how much more the commissioner can achieve but we should be seeking reductions in air pollution and we should be giving her our support in her efforts to negotiate them .
we should support this report and give her our backing .
in all probability , drafting this directive was like a national auction , and the end result is very modest when we think what the real challenges are .
the group of the greens / european free alliance proposes that even stricter goals should be set for 2010 than the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy has recommended .
mr president , in order to meet the objectives for air emission levels prescribed in the fifth environmental action programme , we need this directive on emission ceilings more than anything .
we all know by now that six months ago , higher emission levels were agreed at gothenburg within a un context .
the first step towards achieving the emission ceilings is undoubtedly a dynamic implementation and enforcement of existing directives , such as the auto-oil programme .
now to the issues : it is obvious that there are differing opinions in this house on whether the proposal of the european commission is too ambitious .
mr president , i certainly welcome this report and i gave it a lot of support in the environment committee .
the vast majority of the amendments i can support .
it seems to me that the commission figures are aspirational .
mr president , commissioner , i have , of course , nothing against the principle of the directive .
it is an important instrument for future environmental policy .
i note that , for example , my country , belgium , has to meet the maximum possible level , rather than the economically viable level , but that , at the same time , areas in its vicinity which are just as polluted as my country can pursue a much laxer policy .
that is because a large country can use its better regions to offset its bad practices .
i would therefore ask you to give me your backing for amendments nos 16 and 17 , in which i request that the belgian government be given the chance to re-evaluate the situation based on the annual reports .
the countryside in the nordic countries is particularly vulnerable to acidification because these countries are largely lacking in means to protect themselves against it .
however , more than 80 per cent of the acid rain over our country comes from air pollution not in our own countries but in other west european countries .
i am convinced that the eu can be better than the un at solving the environmental problems in europe .
indeed , by virtue of an unusually fortunate coincidence , directives on waste incineration , on limit values for national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants , and ozone in ambient air all feature on today ' s agenda .
in its proposal for a directive , the european commission proposes quantified national emission ceilings , which must be met by 2010 for the four pollutants i have just mentioned .
in particular , the committee approved a compulsory review of the directive by 2004 , which will enable there to be a review of the limit values stipulated and measures adopted to ensure that these limit values are respected .
eu environmental policy is becoming more and more the environmental policy of each member state , with obvious advantages for all europe ' s citizens .
mr president , commissioner , the emission ceilings in the commission ' s proposal are very ambitious , more so than those agreed in the un economic commission for europe under the so-called gothenburg protocol , and so they should be .
for my own part , i am ready to endorse the compromise prepared by the ppe-de group in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , according to which we shall comply with the commission ' s proposal except with regard to the area of ammonia emissions , as the proposal will not cause great problems for my own country , finland , or our neighbour , sweden , as has become evident on many occasions in this discussion .
mr president , honourable members of parliament , we have made great strides in tackling acidification and also pollution in recent years .
the gothenburg protocol is a step forward .
the protocol goes only halfway towards the goal for acidification already agreed by parliament and the council .
a substantial number of people will die early if we do not adopt the measures proposed by the commission .
the protocol is the result of a process in which there is too little pressure on the reluctant to do what they should .
they amount to only 0.08 % of community gdp in the year 2010 .
the commission can accept fully amendments nos 3 , 8 , 9 , 13 , 19 and 21 .
the commission can accept in part the principle underlying amendments nos 1 and 2 .
we will also include a reference in article 9 of the directive in order to make the new recital operational .
the aim of the commission 's proposal is to leave as much flexibility as possible to member states , but we cannot rule out further community action if this would help member states to meet emission ceilings more cost-effectively .
the commission can also accept in part amendment no 11 which would make further changes to article 9 .
the commission will not know in 2011 whether or not ceilings were met in 2010 because of the time that must be allowed for member states to compile inventories .
we accept in part the principles underlying amendment no 12 .
the commission accepts the principles of amendment no 23 .
the commission accepts amendments nos 24 , 25 and 26 in principle , and will also take them into account when it redrafts article 9 as part of its amended proposal .
the commission has a great deal of sympathy with the concerns underlying amendments nos 16 and 17 .
we will therefore propose a new recital and changes to article 9 , which will ensure that effects on smaller member states are properly taken into account on review .
the commission can accept that part of amendment no 20 that would insert " an appropriate " into recital 9 .
we do not accept the remainder of amendment no 20 .
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 15 , 28 , 29 and 32 .
they seek to replace emission ceilings that are designed to meet the agreed community target for acidification , and to protect our citizens ' health , with the emission ceilings in the gothenburg protocol .
gothenburg ceilings fall far short of what is needed as has already been said .
the commission considers that , if member states take seriously the kyoto commitments , the emission ceilings that it has proposed will not be difficult to implement .
we cannot therefore accept amendment no 31 .
the commission cannot accept amendments no 4 and 14 : under the principle of subsidiarity it is for member states , not the commission , to determine penalties for breaches of national legislation .
amendments nos 5 , 18 and 30 are also unacceptable .
the commission is committed to pursuing long-term objectives for protection of the environment and human health , but we simply do not have enough information today to predict when long-term objectives might be reached .
the commission must reject amendment no 6 .
the commission will examine whether further such proposals should be made to the imo , and whether international action is also needed on aircraft emissions .
the commission cannot accept amendment no 7 .
non-volatile organic compounds are automatically excluded from the definition of " volatile organic compound " in these proposals since they are not found in the air in ambient conditions and do not contribute to ozone formation .
the proposed definition is identical in the gothenburg protocol .
the commission cannot accept amendment no 10 .
finally , mr president , we do not accept amendment no 22 .
the commission 's proposed wording on the key issue of public information is in line with agreements on the first two air quality daughter directives .
the answer is that the council failed to reach a common position in december and the commission is supporting the portuguese presidency in its effort to make progress in parallel with the progress on this proposal .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
environmental legislation the next item is the joint debate on two oral questions to the commission on structural fund programmes in the member states and national implementation of eu environmental laws ( b5 - 0014 / 2000 and b5 0208 / 2000 ) .
mr president , i would like , on behalf of the committee , to move at least one of the oral questions .
i want to quote from an article in the united kingdom sunday telegraph this last sunday .
the environment committee is very interested in finding ways of incorporating environmental considerations into other policies .
that is something which we find reflected in the views not only of some of the german members here tonight but also in some of my british colleagues .
we need to ask to what extent the european commission is prepared to use the provisions of articles 12 and 41 of the general regulation on the structural funds to delay granting money where there is inadequate information on the impact of the projects which have applied for the money on the environment .
at its worst , we want to avoid the possibility that the aims of the structural funds and the european union 's concern to protect its natural habitats may collide .
future generations will not forgive us if we allow irreplaceable habitats to be destroyed , whose preservation we actually voted for eight years ago when we adopted our report on the habitats directive and then again in 1997 with the changes to the annex of the directive .
that doubt has now fallen over the position of the united kingdom and its entitlement to structural funds because the united kingdom government has not fully implemented or complied with the provisions of the habitats directive .
it is in the power of the united kingdom government , the german government and other national governments to remove that threat by complying with the habitats and birds directive .
in the united kingdom , structural funding for counties such as cornwall , which i represent and which has recently been granted objective 1 status , faces a twin threat from government indolence on this directive and from government incompetence and meanness .
however , to begin let me say the following : the ffh directive is an important directive and creates a new climate in europe for the protection of nature , the environment and birds .
our question to you , commissioner , has another purpose .
the european union list of the relevant nature conservation sites should have been ready in 1998 - it is now the year 2000 .
germany , for example , implemented the legislation in 1998 instead of 1994 - only four years late .
but we do have this unfortunate system in the european union - what you call legal certainty .
mr president , it is a pleasure to face the commissioner for the fifth time today at this unearthly hour .
i congratulate her for her efforts in trying to make sure that the habitats directive and associated directives are properly implemented .
i have heard that some in the commission believe that they have managed to squeeze more out of member states in the past six months than they had in the previous six years .
the main principle is clear : the actions cofinanced under the structural funds and the cohesion fund should contribute to the protection and improvement of the environment in the european union .
this is confirmed in the new regulatory framework for the structural funds and cohesion fund and in the commission 's related guidelines .
we should remember that both the cohesion fund and the structural funds finance important investments into environmental infrastructure such as waste water treatment facilities or waste management systems .
let me make one thing clear first to avoid misunderstandings .
contrary to the suggestion in one of the oral questions , this does not represent a new obligation on the member states .
the structural funds regulation has been approved by the member states and the council .
with regard to protection of sites under the habitats and birds directives , it is important that we do not give money to measures which adversely affect sites deserving protection - paying out money with one hand and maybe fining a member state with the other hand .
in following up the letter sent to member states by commissioners wulf-mathies and bjerregaard on june 23 1999 , the commission will insist that , in the programming documents for the period 2000-2006 , there must be a firm and irrevocable commitment guaranteeing that the programmes are consistent with the protection of sites under natura 2000 .
the commission will then use all the means at its disposal to ensure that commitments entered into the programming documents are fully respected .
the commission 's representative in the monitoring committee for each programme will also seek to ensure that member states ' obligations with regard to natura 2000 are fully respected .
in addition , should a member state not honour its commitment to provide the lists under the habitats and birds directives within the timeframe set in the programming documents , the commission will take immediate action .
without the lists neither the member states nor the commission can ensure that we protect important nature sites when carrying out structural fund operations , for the simple reason that we do not know where these sites are .
the directive is intended to establish a frame of reference which , in accordance with the subsidiarity principle , leaves the detailed implementation to the member states .
while the commission has no plans to revise the directive , its services are ready to provide guidance to the member states on its implementation and we are finally starting to move on this .
the only sites which the commission takes into account under the habitats directive are those put forward by the authorities in the member states .
as a result , i can see the member states laughing their socks off at this new position because , in the final analysis , once again they have gained a little more time and it is nature conservation which is going to suffer .
mr president , my first report as an mep was on precisely the same topic as that which we are discussing here today : the environment and the structural funds .
therefore , parliament should take this line and call on the commission , in its vote , to implement the structural fund programmes in a way which takes account of community environmental legislation , particularly with regard to directives on the preservation of natural habitats and wild birds .
it is important to remember that very important measures and projects are financed under the structural funds in the most problematic countries and regions of the union , countries and regions which desperately need help in their endeavours to develop and converge with the more developed member states .
we should also bear in mind , mr president , that measures promoting the environment are often financed by the structural funds .
in paris a timetable was set to allow for a revised list to be presented in july with another moderation in october 2000 .
this process is ongoing and i have no reason to believe that any plans submitted for regional funding breached the eu habitats and wild bird directives at this stage .
any refusal by the commission to approve the programme - for example , in merseyside - thus undermining  2 billion worth of investment , or any other objective i area , including cornwall , involving 5 million people in the uk , would actually breach - you said this commissioner - the well-established commission principle of proportionality , namely the obligation to pursue the least restrictive way of ensuring compliance with eu legislation - in this case the habitats and wild bird directive .
in the final analysis any breach of eu legislation must actually go the european court of justice .
commissioner barnier probably said to you today , commissioner wallstrom , that all european programmes should be able to start without undue delay because it can be extremely difficult to make up for lost time later on .
that is your responsibility as a member of the college .
if this affects my own country , then so be it .
former commissioners wrote to the irish government saying : " if you do not have on your list habitat areas to be protected then when you put in your national plan how are we going to assess whether it is in compliance with european directives ? " you must stick to that .
in portugal there is not only no definitive list of protected sites of community importance for inclusion in the natura 2000 network , but even though it is compulsory , there are no plans , rules or mechanisms for the management and protection of sites that have already been selected .
in other words , the portuguese sites that already form part of the natura 2000 network are completely at the mercy of unscrupulous groups of financiers and construction companies , because of the lack of instruments to protect them .
i therefore hope that the commission will bring its legal authority to bear and refuse to approve any funding for the third community support framework until member states send in their lists for the natura 2000 network .
mr president , what is at stake in this debate is whether the eu 's commitment to sustainable development in theory , actually means something in practice , whether when push comes to shove , we are prepared to make some very difficult decisions .
sustainable development is supposed to be about integrating economic development with environmental concerns .
that is what article 6 of our own ec treaty obliges us to do - to integrate those policies .
at the heart of this debate is the issue of economic development coming right up against environmental constraints .
it will be a very good test of what our commitment to sustainable development really means .
that is why the greens are supporting very strongly this resolution from the environment committee .
the problem is in fact much worse ; in addition to the fact that environmental legislation is being contravened in projects and programmes which have received community approval and funding , it is also being contravened during the implementation of projects and programmes in receipt of private or national funding .
it is absurd for eu environmental legislation not to be applied or respected for all projects in the member states , irrespective of whether they require community or some other type of funding .
and the truth is that the directives for the natura 2000 network have been inadequately implemented both in my country and in other member states .
for example , despite the fact that the maliakos gulf and the wetlands of the sperkhios river have been designated as conservation areas under the natura 2000 network , there are proposals to bridge the maliakos gulf , in violation of community law , despite the fact that an alternative solution could be found .
i therefore insist and we call on the commission to ensure that eu environmental legislation is properly implemented and respected in all projects and , if need be , to take recourse to the european court , as another speaker has suggested , and propose huge fines and take a strict line .
mr president , i cannot resist starting by saying it is well-known that my irish colleague across the way lives in the capital city of dublin where these sites will not be troubling her too much .
having said that i support the thrust of what is before us here today and the ability of the commission to use as a carrot-and-stick approach the structural funds to encourage in perhaps the most effective way recalcitrant member states such as ireland , to get their house in order in relation to the natura 2000 sites .
no member state has fully met the requirements of the habitats directive , for example , let alone met them within the legally-binding timetable .
commission procedures are under way against nearly every member state - 12 member states in fact - under the habitats directive at the moment .
it looks as if there are six countries currently at risk for delays or rejections of proposals for the use of structural funds , including my own , the uk , certain german lander , france , sweden and belgium .
constitutional challenge is often quoted in ireland as one of our reasons .
mr president , commissioner , implementation of the flora-fauna-habitats directive is causing quite a stir in many regions and also running into major difficulties .
it would be sensible to re-examine and revise directive 9243 to provide more certainty and clarity .
this is about meeting our obligations under the structural funds regulation and without these lists we cannot ensure that we protect important natural sites during structural funds operations .
if for example in a country which we have discussed today there are 40 projects currently under way that would affect sites to be protected , how can we check that if we have not got the lists ?
we do not want to delay the process of approving the operational programmes under the structural funds but the programmes must include a firm commitment by the member state that they will send us their list by a certain point in time .
we have to understand that this is an opportunity for us to live up to our obligations under the regulations for the structural funds .
the debate is closed .
fifty years ago , 63 countries signed the four conventions and two protocols which still provide a basis for international humanitarian rights today .
mr president , the european union , which advocates and practises a set of values which we are proud to say is at the forefront of the international community , has been emphasising the vital importance of observing the geneva conventions .
in such cases we seek to use the instruments available to us to exert pressure in a timely and effective way .
we are aware that in many cases we have not achieved everything we might wish , but we firmly intend to continue in future with the same determination .
mr president , despite the gravity and the frequency of human rights violations that the geneva conventions and their protocols attempt to prevent , i do believe that the new millennium gives us some cause for hope .
in creating international tribunals like those now dealing with the former yugoslavia and rwanda , we have taken a step forward in making life more difficult for people who encourage acts which infringe the values of the geneva conventions .
the main victims of conflicts - children , women and the population in general - are the first to be threatened and to suffer and we must make their protection one of the priority objectives of our action .
the more we do to prevent violations of international humanitarian law , the more we remind other states - by means of all the opportunities which our foreign relations offer us - of the need to ratify and respect the geneva convention and the more we will be doing to protect these weakest groups .
for example , we can spread the knowledge of this law , particularly throughout society itself , amongst young people , within mass organisations and also in the armed forces and security services .
all the institutions of the european union must decisively support the work of the icrc , because their role is quite simply indispensable .
in this area , the institutions of the european union - including the commission of course - have a generic responsibility , because this is a question of spreading and promoting essential values which , furthermore , are the same as those which underpin our european project .
mr president , 12 august 1949 is a day which the ancient romans would have said should be marked with a red stone .
it signified a great step forward for mankind - and yet in the fifty years since , although our own half-continent has lived in peace , more people have died in armed conflict than died in the whole of world war ii .
too often our own member states have been parties to conflict , either through the production and sales of weapons , through the production and distribution of landmines or through the temptation - in the words of a great victorian statesman in my country - to prefer their wars to be fought at a distance and wherever possible in the name of god .
