moreover , this report reveals some mismanagement in the allocation of the structural funds .
beyond the overall picture , considerable differences in implementation have persisted between the different objectives as well as between the member states and the regions .
the difference between the budgetary appropriations and the final implementation remains a problem particularly affecting objective 2 .
moreover the full utilisation of the structural funds in 1998 , or at least in terms of the percentages mentioned earlier , has only been possible thanks to a compensation mechanism for under-implementation , such as major transfer of credits from objective 2 to objective 1 .
furthermore , we ask for a fairer distribution of expenditure , more transparency in the allocation and control of the funds , better eligibility criteria , a reduction in the number of priority objectives and community initiatives .
i would firstly likely to remind you that the objective of the funds is to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the european union and that , while it is true that the gdp per capita in the regions with the lowest rate increased by 9 % between 1986 and 1996 , over the same period the income per capita in the four poorest countries rose by 8 % .
nevertheless , the difference when compared to the 25 richest regions continues to be the same : two and a half times .
a second factor is that only 10 % of the interventions from the funds correspond to local development measures , despite the fact that most population and poverty is found in urban centres .
all of these issues point to the need for a series of criteria to be taken into account in the future .
secondly , we need to develop policies which will reduce the disparities between the richest countries and the poorest countries .
lastly , we must take account of all sections of the population with the real objective of creating ever more employment , especially in the least-favoured regions .
mr president , commissioner , as someone with a local government background , i should like to stress the need for local government agencies to become more involved at all levels , particularly when programmes are being formulated and implemented .
i should also like to stress the need for greater coordination between european regional policy and other community policies and between the structural funds and other funding mechanisms .
the principle of additionality must be taken into serious account and i believe that the member states and the commission , in the light of forthcoming enlargement , will have to work together to draw up and adopt guidelines defining a more integrated approach to verifying the application of this principle , taking into account , of course , the particular economic situation in each member state .
in closing , i feel i must congratulate the rapporteur on his comprehensive report and stress the fact that on the whole , the implementation of the programmes financed by the various funds was on the right track in 1998 , the year covered by the report and a good year overall , in which the relative delays of previous years were recouped .
there seems to be a problem with this generally , perhaps due to a lack of staff , and the commission must ensure that it takes the measures needed to ensure that the implementation of european policies continues to be monitored .
mr president , commissioner , i especially welcome paragraph 20 on additionality and hope very much that the commission will take particular account of the importance of transparency .
i would add that this should also relate to the question of whether the principle is being complied with , not just overall by member states , but at regional levels within them .
finally , i believe that there is a great deal of merit in amendment no 5 .
management at this level allows for a high degree of coordination and exchange of best practice between those involved .
i offer as an example our objective 3 partnership 's development of a tool kit for gender mainstreaming in structural funding .
it is vital for the concept of subsidiarity to be brought into the heart of our notion of structural funding and for the regional , local and national authorities within member states to be fully engaged in the process of implementing the structural funds and applying them .
perhaps commissioner barnier will not be surprised if i bang home again on the point that whatever might have been the failures of the past , he has the opportunity to make successes in the future and to ensure that the additionality principle is not just a formal principle requiring member states to satisfy certain budgetary conditions in a global way .
rather it should become a substantive principle built into the idea of subsidiarity which he and president prodi are researching so that at regional and national level within member states we can see that the funds really are being used to enhance and improve development .
to help reduce regional disparities and achieve economic and social cohesion ; in numerous cases , the situation has worsened and the gulf between the regions lagging behind and the developed areas has widened both in rural areas , especially island and mountain regions , and also in urban areas , which are plagued by mass and long-term unemployment , poverty , and a scarcity , or in many cases , a total lack of basic infrastructures .
epirus acquired the dubious accolade of being the poorest region in the european union .
the scarcity of resources under the damoclean sword of agenda 2000 and persistent cutbacks in order to satisfy other requirements , such as enlargement , do nothing to strengthen cohesion or stabilize development levels ; on the contrary , they help set further socio-economic degeneration of the regions in motion .
president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , this sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation of the regions of the union , which was adopted last year by the commission , indicated that the 25 richest regions of the european union still had an average gdp per head that was two and a half times higher than that in the 25 poorest regions , and my fellow members have also reminded us of this .
the development gap between the member states has certainly been reduced , but there are still disparities between the regions , not only with regard to the gdp per head , but also , particularly , in terms of unemployment .
in its 1998annual report on the structural funds , the commission notes , rightly so , that high regional unemployment leads to social exclusion , hence making unemployment even more resistant to economic improvement .
the commission has promised that the emphasis in the new programming period for the structural funds will be on improving transport networks , particularly in the peripheral or outermost regions , and on creating sustainable and effective transport systems that provide a balance between the different modes of transport .
people in work are a guarantee of peace and freedom in europe .
the structural funds cannot operate in isolation .
the structural funds are therefore very important and have to function well .
finally , mr president , i want to emphasise that the whole of the eu must share in european growth .
his report states clearly that the results of the 1994-9 structural funds programming period , taking into account the assessments available at the end of 1998 , have not met expectations on a number of fronts .
i would like to devote my speaking time to responding as precisely as possible to each one of you on the most important points and , first of all , on the implementation of the funds for 1998 .
there is the innovative aspect of most of the programmes , a new approach based on partnership and the inherent difficulty in implementing transnational programmes , by both national and regional authorities .
with regard to implementation , mr esclope , since you mentioned the inequality between the different member states regarding implementation , i think i am right in saying that part of the explanation you are looking for lies in the inevitably different nature of the programmes and projects according to the countries or regions .
we are well aware that it is the countries and regions that propose the projects which , i repeat , are very different .
there are still unjustified , unacceptable gaps between regions , and between the group of the poorest regions and the group of the richest regions .
finally , thirdly , completing thematic cross-sector evaluations , in particular with regard to small and medium-sized businesses , equal opportunities or partnership .
i have noticed that these evaluations are gradually bearing fruit , in particular the new programmes for the period 2000-2006 .
there is still progress to be made in this area , but it must be noted that the evaluation culture seems to me to be more prevalent today in all the departments of the commission and also among the programme managers .
with regard to control , the new legislation also gives the member states direct responsibility for controls concerning programmes carried out on their territory .
in particular , i will think about this in the joint discussions on the nature of the new regional policy for 2006-2013 .
i must therefore find , in conjunction with my staff , the optimum balance between and coordination of , on the one hand , the desire expressed by some of you earlier for greater decentralisation , greater trust in the member states and the regions and , on the other , your requirement for rigour , which is also required of me by the court of auditors , in order to be able to be accountable to the taxpayers .
your rapporteur quite rightly remarks that in 1998 the commission did not carry out enough on-the-spot checks .
actually , mr turco , in spite of the importance attached by the commission to proper financial management of the programmes and to reliable controls , i must point out that the resources at my disposal did not enable us to carry out as many controls as we would have wished .
for objective 1 programmes , as was formerly the case , but also for objective 2 and 3 programmes , taken together , this verification will be carried out on the basis of samples and will concern solely the active measures of the labour market .
this new system will make it possible to have an overall view of the implementation of the additionality principle , including for objective 2 , which as you know , presented great statistical problems during the previous period .
the commission had also proposed a link between the verification of this additionality and the allocation of the performance reserve , but , as you also know , this link has not been adopted by the legislator .
i would , however , like to remind you of my desire to verify the reality of this additionality and i would also like to say - as i have said to several member states - that the verification of this principle , the reality of additionality will be a criterion for the admissibility and approval of new programmes .
you asked me about your draft article 5 .
once again , i am bound by article 11 of the general regulation on structural funds which , at least until 2006 , does not allow the decentralisation or delegation of the executive powers of the commission to sub-national bodies , as you call them : the autonomous communities , regions , and lander .
the principle of partnership is one which the commission hopes to make as comprehensive as possible .
but the commission goes much further with the new legislation for 2000-2006 .
this is how the cross-sector theme in their annual report for 1998 should be considered , for example , the actions supporting local development and , i would like to announce , actions in favour of equal opportunities and sexual equality in the report for 1999 .
this is a field in which the commission adopted , in 1998 , a communication reconciling the map of regional state aid with the map of regions eligible for the structural funds and on this subject , i regularly have constructive dialogues with mario monti , my fellow commissioner with responsibility for such matters .
this is also the case for the environment , within the scope of the new programmes for 2000 2006 .
the objective of the fund is to support the development of the weakest regions in order to step up economic and social cohesion within the union , and you stressed the lack of progress made in this area .
you know , ladies and gentlemen , of the personal interest that i will continue to take , within the commission , in the future and the development of the outermost regions .
ladies and gentlemen , it is right for parliament to make demands on the commission with regard to the implementation of the structural funds and their impact , and you have presented new requirements .
the draft resolution reflects this wish , this requirement , by asking the commission to provide yet more information in the annual report .
however , for a few years we have chosen to make the annual report more concise , which , moreover , was formally requested by the european parliament at the time .
we shall therefore continue our efforts in favour of readability and the task of explanation , while being more precise in order to respond to your requests .
thank you very much , commissioner barnier .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
basic freedoms in serbia and kosovo the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : b5-0568 / 2000 by mr dupuis and others , on behalf of the technical group of independent members ; b5-0569 / 2000 by mrs pack and mr posselt , on behalf of the group of the european people 's party ( christian democrats ) and the european democrats ; b5-0572 / 2000 by mr lagendijk and others , on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance ; b5-0574 / 2000 by mr haarder and mrs malmstrom , on behalf of group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0577 / 2000 by mr brie and others , on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0579 / 2000 by mr wiersma and mr swoboda , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists on basic freedoms in serbia and in kosovo .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we have just had a chance to speak with some young lawyers from serbia , who gave us an impressive account of the hopeless situation in their country .
anyone who sees the facts as they are is treated as a traitor to the serbian people and a nato lackey .
one of the young serbian women told me that it is extraordinarily difficult for her to explain to her grandmother why she opposes milosevic , as her grandmother only has her own information and experiences to go by .
this means that she cannot understand why this young woman is involved in the otpor organisation .
we must help the independent democratic media in serbia so that they can provide accurate information as far as possible , and so that democracy may yet blossom in serbia .
otpor , the real resistance group in serbia , which grew out of the student movement , is as at present being prevented by milosevic from registering as an organisation .
the situation in these prisons is indescribable .
she was sentenced to 14 years in prison in serbia , in nis .
we must attempt to at least give these people some certainty about where these missing persons are , what prisons they are in or where they met their death .
in kosovo , which we also visited , although the situation is different , there are similar problems .
we went to kosovo last year because we wanted to help the kosovo albanians who for ten years have suffered under an apartheid-like regime to obtain attention .
but in kosovo there is also the problem of missing serbs , which we are all familiar with .
that being the case , we must help these well intentioned serbs to achieve some positive results , so that their cooperation is clearly of some benefit for the serbian population .
that is why i appeal to all the member states to send as many police officers as possible to kosovo , in order to guarantee protection for minorities also .
i also know how hard it is to act as opposition in this situation , and not to despair or give up .
it is also important to give these signals , because otherwise the opposition feels isolated and loses all its drive .
i therefore call on the commission to take every opportunity , in all its talks with representatives of the serbian government or embassies , to present the list of prisoners and to request information on each prisoner .
for the sake of the credibility of the international community it is therefore a matter of urgency for us to protect the minorities and give them genuine opportunities for living and working there .
the serbs , roma and other minorities have a right to live there !
mr president , fellow members , this resolution deals in a meticulous way with a number of practical problems .
i shall not repeat them , as our president , doris pack , has explained them better than we could .
having said this , i think it is time for the european parliament and also the commission and the council to engage in a debate - and i know that the president of our delegation does not entirely share this point of view - on the future status of kosovo , the future status of bosnia , and therefore also , directly , that of serbia .
there is another fact that merits our attention : the presence , in a country with less than two million inhabitants , of over fifty thousand westerners with a standard of living 10 , 15 , 20 times higher than that of the kosovars , cannot but present many problems in terms of discrimination and inequality , and is not without secondary effects that are not always as secondary as all that , and are in fact very serious and often very problematic , or even truly adverse .
having said that , i am not questioning the role of the kfor , the role of the united nations in kosovo , at all , but we cannot consider and plan an " occupation " of kosovo for many years without running serious risks .
six years after the signature of the dayton agreements in 1995 , with a bosnia that is still not a country where things run smoothly , with a bosnia comprising two or even three entities , we must urgently put an end to all these problems and the commission and the council must urgently propose ways of overcoming these situations which were designed to be interim situations .
in particular , i do not think we can avoid the idea of a federation between kosovo and albania , nor can we avoid associations between certain parts of bosnia and serbia .
i can , unfortunately , also testify to what the debate here ought especially to be about , namely the fact that it is now the serbs who are being persecuted by people who act with spite towards them , throw stones at them , burn their houses down and attempt to drive them from their homes .
now , it is the serbs who need our attention .
the police are doing everything possible , but nothing like the promised number of police has arrived .
mr president , one year on from the end of the nato bombing of yugoslavia , the situation is unstable and the opposing forces in serbia are giving increasing cause for concern .
many of the men , women and students who are victims of oppression today are the same people who have courageously spoken up in these past years , calling for peace , freedom and respect for human rights , and who have , in reality , been abandoned even by europe .
and those who have remained are regularly attacked and , in many cases , killed .
the most recent unhcr / osce report states clearly that , in kosovo , minorities have no access to education , health and public services and no freedom of movement .
in my opinion , europe , and , in particular , the 19 nato countries , should undertake a large-scale self-appraisal operation and revise its policies .
it may be that we should be the ones to give them strong support in serbia and kosovo .
milosevic is creating dictatorial conditions , a country governed by security troops , state media and state terror .
ccl recently branded them terrorists .
all in all , a situation is being created in which democracy is becoming a farce and the regime is trying to keep a grip on the situation by means of totalitarian manipulation .
we need to remain involved , and it is also useful that we , as a parliament , are here today expressing our broad consensus on the situation and on how the situation in serbia is to be addressed .
we must make one thing crystal clear once and for all : our criticism has never been aimed at the people of serbia , but against those in power who are abusing the name of the serbian people for their own criminal ends .
we must at the same time be very much aware that the issue of protecting minorities also affects serbia .
the albanians driven out of core serbia scarcely get a mention in our media , yet they are significantly aggravating the situation in this region .
in this context i would like to make it very clear that it is crucial for us not just to point the finger of blame at others , but also to fulfil our own obligations .
mr president , we find ourselves gazing with bewilderment at each new act by the milosevic regime , acts against its own people .
that is why i think it is important to maintain constant contact with the opposition and to attempt to bring about a change in the political scene .
i also believe that funding for increased information provision should be implemented here and now , so as to provide more objective information about the actual conditions in the balkans .
this does not apply to serbs living in kosovo , nor indeed to those serbs who have fled kosovo and are now living in yugoslavia .
in his annual report , the un secretary-general notes that , one year on from the deployment of kfor , we face a well-developed , organised and well-orchestrated campaign against the serbs and other ethnic groups in kosovo , which is undermining confidence in the future and transforming kosovo into a breeding ground for retaliation and crime .
the un high commissioner and the osce have condemned the fact that , one year on from the arrival of the kfor forces in the area , the minorities living in kosovo , mainly serbs and gypsies , are still unprotected .
only the european parliament seems incapable , including in today ' s resolution , of drawing any conclusions from the tragic situation which has arisen in this area as a result of the military incursions of nato forces into an independent member state of the un , in violation of the fundamental principles of international law .
after all , the resolution speaks out unmistakably about the undemocratic nature of the milosevic regime in belgrade and the means it deploys in order to exercise power .
this medical doctor forms part of the political leadership of the moderate serbs in kosovo .
in kosovo , violence is a daily event , and the democratic forces in montenegro are at risk from threats from outside and from polarisation within .
so it is not surprising that the milosevic regime is now taking a harder line than before against the independent media .
a time when a regime has to repress any freedom of expression is a time when it feels particularly weak and under attack .
that is why it is right that demands are being made here for the european union to use its resources to bolster the independent media in serbia .
if it is possible to do yet more in this area , then the commission is of course willing to look into this .
we have , of course , already reacted to media repression in many cases in the past .
i believe that it is very important to demonstrate that democratic developments in serbia will be rewarded and will receive a positive response .
against this background i would like to stress that we regard it as being particularly important to strengthen and stabilise the democratic developments that have already started in croatia , as croatia in particular is also capable of exerting a positive influence on serbia .
with regard to montenegro , i must say that we certainly welcome the democratic way in which the most recent municipal elections in podgorica and herceg novi have been conducted .
i am also pleased , in view of all the laborious history of this , that the council has now finally agreed to grant montenegro an emergency support budget of eur 20 million .
the european union will always condemn such violence with equal force .
not only is the credibility of the policies of the european union and its member states at stake , it is also imperative , if we wish to achieve our objectives in kosovo , for us to provide the minimum level of police presence required to guarantee stability .
it is in everyone ' s interest to ensure cooperation between all kosovo ' s citizens , on the basis of common institutions .
the commission also supports unmik ' s endeavours in the area of local administration by means of twinning projects and by advertising posts in unmik ' s civil administration and the pillars of the reconstruction programme as widely as possible in all the member states .
i consider it extraordinarily important that the european parliament has today once again held an in-depth debate on the resolution before us on the situation in the western balkans , and that this not only expresses our concern but above all demonstrates our shared determination not to leave our work in this region only half done .
we have held a high-quality debate lasting for over an hour on the most important topic in europe today .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
mr president , the european union and this parliament have followed recent events in the republic of paraguay with great concern .
the second event which has been followed with great interest by this parliament was the arrest on 11 june , of general oviedo .
in this context , we in this parliament must , in my opinion , support full democratic consolidation in the republic of paraguay and appeal for the correct operation of the rule of law and justice in that country .
mr president , it seems to me to be particularly appropriate to point out that the defence of democracy and the rule of law is the cornerstone of the policy of cooperation with the countries of latin america .
the respect for democratic values is , and must continue to be , the central pillar of political dialogue between the european union and the countries of mercosur , both on a regional level and on a bilateral level .
good evidence of this can be found in the ambitious institutional support programmes which the european union has been developing in paraguay since 1995 .
these projects , mr president , are fundamental in a country whose constitution only dates from 1992 , whose first elections took place in 1993 , which suffered 50 years of dictatorship and which , therefore , is very much in need of democratic stability and institutional continuity .
mr president , i believe that both the european union and the united states , which have expressed their support for the government of paraguay , while recognising that efforts are being made to consolidate a certain degree of democratic stability , must also remind the paraguayan authorities of the urgent need to take measures on institutional consolidation and to begin also to resolve the great economic and social problems in that country .
having pointed out the importance of our institutional support and cooperation in paraguay , i do not wish to end without reminding you that the european union still has no office in paraguay .
i believe that a european commission delegation in asuncion would not only aid and improve our relations , but could also contribute in a significant way to the achievement of these objectives which are so important to all those of us who believe in the democratic clause , which is the foundation of these agreements and our relations with that country .
we can help considerably in this field , by appropriately implementing the contents of the european union ' s agreements with the mercosur countries and in particular the agreement with paraguay , which is so necessary .
we therefore believe that our action in this area can be decisive and we would also like to express our full support for the joint resolution which we have signed .
mr president , fellow members , the greens , like several other groups , had tabled a motion for a resolution on paraguay .
as you are aware , the situation in paraguay is characterised not only by a revolutionary tendency in certain sections of the army but , more generally , by very serious human rights violations and the harsh suppression of popular movements .
we have tried , in our resolution , to emphasise both these factors simultaneously .
the resolution before us simply pays tribute to the initiative used by another southern cone country to arrest the leader of a military coup d ' etat and extradite him to his country of origin .
we welcome this initiative on the part of brazil , but to say that and nothing more would mean framing a resolution on brazil , not paraguay .
we would have liked the european union to exploit the methods of democratic persuasion afforded due to the aid it provides to all the southern cone countries in order to encourage the legitimate government in paraguay to show greater respect for human rights .
unfortunately , in the current wording of the resolution , this is not the case , and we consequently prefer to vote against the joint motion for a resolution and , if necessary , maintain our own motion for a resolution .
it therefore makes sense that the european parliament , which has always regarded itself as the patron saint of democracy in latin america and elsewhere , should express its views on this .
the second point that i would like to mention relates to paraguay and brazil .
we believe that paraguay is probably a forgotten country , which has been helped by its integration into mercosur , and , from that point of view , it is important that our relations with paraguay should improve the situation , and that brussels should find a way to help that country and at the same time remind it , as we will surely do later in the case of peru , of the democratic clause which is the inspiration for all our actions .
other equally positive signs are the reduction in corruption and the hope that general oviedo , like pinochet , will be tried .
mr president , it is appropriate today for the european parliament to turn its attention to paraguay and express its solidarity with the paraguayan people , who still face considerable difficulties and uncertainties in their effort to consolidate a democratic regime .
the history of paraguay is one of the saddest and most unjust in latin america .
for those of us who for many years have sided with the resistance in that country , it is painful to remember how , in the 60s and 70s , there were at least three good reasons to feel sorrow .
paraguay was probably the only country in the world whose population had been practically exterminated during wars with its two neighbours , argentina and brazil .
at that time , paraguay was the only country which had considerably more population outside its borders than inside , with exiles , outcasts and emigrants of every type .
lastly , paraguay held the tragic record of suffering the longest dictatorship in the whole of latin america , headed by general stroessner .
that dictatorship displayed the most extraordinary cruelty in its repression of any opposition , and at the same time its dictator and his entourage was enormously corrupt , with their monopoly on big business and , in particular , smuggling .
the paraguayan people never gave in .
in this context , and with oviedo under arrest in brazil , the resolution we are voting on in parliament is a great opportunity .
the european union has already been active in paraguay for a good many years .
our attempts to have a concrete influence on the situation there have focused on two areas .
we can help to develop these institutions , but the political will really to establish them , to use them and take advantage of them has to come from those who are currently in power in paraguay .
i would like to mention in particular that this includes a special programme supporting the indigenous population of the chaco region .
but as yet no decision has been taken to change the situation in paraguay in this respect .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
mr president , on 16 march , this parliament adopted a resolution on the presidential and legislative elections in peru , in which it expressed its confidence , within the context of cooperation in our relations with peru , that the presidential and legislative elections would be held in a fair and transparent manner , in accordance with the universally held principles of democratic systems .
the presidency of the european union , in its declaration of 9 june this year , expressed its enormous concern at the irregularities and anomalies detected .
despite the fluid relations which the european union maintains with peru , which are embodied in the cooperation agreement with the andean pact which has been in force since 1998 , we should remember once again that these very relations are based on the universally recognised principles of respect for pluralist democracy , the rule of law and human rights .
on the basis of these principles , the european union must carefully assess the necessary response to this delicate situation resulting from the elections of 28 may .
the council of ministers of the european union , in its declaration of 9 june , has decided not to adopt sanctions against peru at the moment .
the meeting of chancellors of the organisation of american states in ottawa , having heard the report of the electoral mission headed by eduardo stein , has decided to send a new mission , which will include the canadian minister of foreign affairs and the secretary-general of the organisation of american states , in order to ensure that the government of peru is adopting the necessary measures to re-establish democratic legality .
the oas has not adopted sanctions against peru at the moment either .
this mission seems to me to be particularly appropriate since the european union is the main provider of development aid and economic cooperation , and it is also the main investor in peru .
mr president , since you have asked us not to take up the time allotted , and in summary , i will say that one of the main contributions which the european union could make in this difficult situation - and i believe there is good reason , as i have just pointed out , not to leave the matter exclusively in the hands of the organisation of american states - should be , in my opinion , to promote , on the basis of a guarantee of the full exercise of all civil and political rights , a consensus amongst all the forces which would allow democracy to be recovered , strengthened and deepened in peru .
let me remind you that the conditions of this election , at least in the second round , were so disastrous that not only did the main opposition candidate withdraw , but so did all the international observers .
in these circumstances , it could be concluded , even before the election , that the election was not valid .
the excess vote was around 20 % in some places .
so not only was there no opposition , but it was even necessary to resort to fraud in order to obtain the figure of 51 % .
unlike the case of paraguay , we are not going to see this as a reason for voting against the resolution .
you know that the organisation of american states goes further than the european parliament ' s joint proposal apparently does , as this organisation is actually volunteering to suggest a democratic way out of the political crisis which peru is stuck in over this matter .
we are simply suggesting that the parliament should approve the current efforts of the organisation of american states to find a legal , peaceful way out of the crisis .
these are the two amendments that would enable us simply to support the joint motion for a resolution .
mr president , it is clear that president fujimori has challenged the international community and , in particular , the organisation of american states and also the european union .
therefore , from our point of view , as well as lamenting the situation and supporting the democratic forces , it is still absolutely essential that , as we did in the previous case of paraguay , we remind peru of the need for any relations with the european union to be maintained in compliance with the democratic clause .
secondly , only by sending observers will we be able to assess the true situation and find a way to act appropriately .
therefore , since two recent days , 9 april and 28 may , have caused us great concern , it is clear that we will only be able to act appropriately if we send observers , which we hope will be possible , and who we hope will be able to act effectively .
the president of peru has for years been failing to play by the rules that we expect in a democracy .
mr president , the situation in peru worries us .
president fujimori took power with dangerous plans : to give absolute priority to supposed economic efficiency , claiming that a strong hold on power was required to manage it , and to overcome what he called ' party-ocracy ' , subliminally blaming all the previous problems on the institutions of the democratic state .
in summary , that is what our resolution says , and it is good and appropriate that the european parliament ' s voice should be heard in this respect , for our own dignity , and in order to demonstrate our interest in the democratic process in latin america , but also in order to demonstrate our support , which the peruvian democrats need and deserve .
while we are voting in favour of the resolution in question , i would like to point out two issues relating to its text .
my second point is that i regret the fact that the resolution does not refer to the disappointing role played by the organisation of american states throughout this process .
in its statement of 9 june , the european union stressed that it would support the oas mission to peru .
we will be following the situation in peru with the greatest vigilance and are prepared to rethink our relations with peru against this background .
the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed .
as planned , mr turco ' s report , which we debated this afternoon , will be put to the vote during voting time which begins in a few moments .
i would simply like to thank all the honourable members for providing such a clear demonstration on the subject of friday ' s vote of " whittling away " .
if we want to deal with a serious agenda , then we need to attend .
vote ( continuation ) mr president , before you take the final vote , amendment no 3 to paragraph 28 is on the voting list as by the tdi group .
mr president , first of all , this technical amendment has been voted upon , and i do not see why we have to come back to it .
the amendment has been voted upon as i announced it .
mr president , i would just like to say that , in my opinion , amendments should be accepted or rejected on the basis of their content and not on the basis of who has put their name to them .
it is ridiculous for members to say after the vote that they would not have voted in favour of an amendment because a particular group tabled that amendment .
explanations of vote - tunisia ( b5-0508 / 2000 ) mr president , i abstained from the vote on the report on tunisia because i do not feel that this type of document serves much purpose .
since we are discussing the protection of freedom and human rights , i would like to take this opportunity to say that a serious violation , or rather an attempt at violation of the right to freedom of speech took place today in the parliament forecourt .
this is because this is the only means given us by parliamentary procedure through which we are able to express our protest against the dictatorship in tunisia .
mr president , i voted for the marset campos report and i will tell you why , although i would first like to express my support for mr speroni ' s speech .
in fact , on reading the commission document and the report by the european parliament , we see that this was not the case .
yes , the need to harmonise asylum standards is broadly recommended by these texts .
for example , it condemns the disparities in the way refugees are treated from one country to the next but does not provide examples .
there may be perfectly legitimate reasons for these disparities , relating to the special features of a country , its culture or its links with former colonies .
so , in fact , we are currently trying to solve a problem largely created by the treaty of amsterdam itself and , what is more , we are going to solve it to our disadvantage as it is clear that asylum standards cannot be harmonised from the bottom up - for who would dare ? - but rather towards the top with all the in-draughts normally caused by this type of policy .
in order to escape , we can only invite the governments to exercise the utmost caution , retain as much power as possible , and interpret article 63 of the treaty of amsterdam narrowly .
mr president , this explanation of vote is also shared by arlette laguiller and armonie bordes .
this means that although , in some european countries , the application of this text could in theory improve the situation of asylum seekers , it would make it worse in others .
furthermore , i consider that it would be appropriate for the commission to apply this decision retroactively and share the burden borne by those who accepted kosovar refugees between the member states of the european union .
mr president , i abstained in the vote because i do not consider that these texts serve much purpose .
we are against a communist , dictatorial europe which eradicates the identity of peoples by eliminating the differences between them .
the asylum issue is a major political issue concerning fundamental democratic rights , the safeguarding of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual and the preservation of human dignity .
asylum seekers in the member states of the eu must be treated in a dignified and humane manner .
the dublin convention allows asylum applications to be made only in the first state entered by the refugee .
the aim of the schmitt report is clear : " to re-enhance the reputation and substance of the right of asylum , the qualification procedure should be tightened up , and abuses resolutely curbed " .
moreover , the states on the edges of the schengen zone are considered to be " secure " .
finally , this report , just like many others relating to immigration management , is unrealistic and highly populist .
this is why the members of the national front and i myself will vote against this report which jeopardises people ' s rights and security and also democracy .
this same committee discovers the laws of democracy when it suggests that the discrepancies from one country to the next are linked to the political context as much as to the content of the applications .
the political will of this house is , in this field as in any other , to extend the scope of community power to the detriment of the member states , who are apparently unworthy of such power .
either the member states have their own policy , for which they are responsible and which they therefore finance , or the european union " communitises " this field and includes the costs in its budget .
if such and such a country finds its policy too expensive , let it change the policy .
we do not want a community policy in the hands of the commission , nor do we want the policy of another government : we want our people and their elected representatives to retain control over their own decisions and destiny .
coordination of the member states ' responsibilities is necessary if countries are in practice to be able to pursue generous policies on refugees .
we therefore welcome the commission ' s working document in principle , together with ingo schmitt ' s report on the drawing up of a common policy on asylum and refugees , but we emphasise that it ought not to be the least generous countries which set the standards .
nor must we forget that refugees and immigrants have a positive influence on the member states .
what is more , it is important that refugees should in principle be entitled to the same social benefits as other people resident in the particular country dealing with the application for asylum .
this basic principle is established in the geneva convention and must be given due attention and complied with .
the aim of the schmitt report is to extend this degrading and inhumane system to the entire european union .
instead , the rapporteur complains that people " wrongfully lay claim " to the right of asylum in europe .
with regard to accepting asylum-seekers , the schmitt report demands " burden sharing " within the eu .
the european parliament must make proposals that take account of the interests of refugees and asylum-seekers in the european union .
everyone seeking refuge in the eu must have access to a just and fair reception procedure .
in france , our most famous asylum seeker was general de gaulle , who was able to benefit from the right of asylum in england in order to prepare the resistance .
in my opinion , the standards set by the report are too low .
thus , persecuted afghan women who are stoned for not wearing the chador , should without exception benefit from the right of asylum .
the report remains vague on this subject .
i abstained on amendment no 14 .
but i am against the actual idea of systematically collecting information , as by eurodac , as i am against the very idea of accelerated procedures , which can give rise to many forms of abuse .
report sorensen ( a5-0126 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , i welcome the commission ' s decision to adopt rules on compensating victims of crimes in the european union .
in europe , it is no longer possible for the elderly to set foot out of doors , not only at night but during the day as well in some areas .
we therefore applaud those sentiments in the sorensen report which support our view .
once again , europe has shown its great sense of responsibility in taking an interest in crime victims .
report turco ( a5-0138 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , i voted for the turco report although i would have preferred to vote against it for it resembles a final balance sheet and is , above all , a very tedious report on the allocation and use of the structural funds in 1998 .
personally , i am convinced that the european union must completely change the way it allocates aid to those in need of its support .
one further aspect concerns another governing motif for the current period : regional and local development and related issues .
new actions based on local initiatives carried out in a partnership framework have recently been introduced to boost the profile of this motif .
the commission mentions this in its report but provides an overview , confining itself to general aspects and not providing a detailed evaluation , so to speak , of the frauds , still less revealing the means used to combat fraud in the past or those to be used in the future .
this last aspect is , in fact , an unambiguous indication of commitment and political determination .
extremely serious remarks were made regarding the president of the commission , the republic of italy - our country - and 25 april , which is the date of liberation of italy from the nazis .
but freedom of speech must be upheld !
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , commissioner , as you all know , the objective of the cohesion fund is to contribute to economic and social cohesion and at the same time reduce regional and social disparities , through solidarity amongst the member states .
thanks to this fund , numerous countries of the european union have had the opportunity to try to lessen the distance between themselves and the wealthier countries , and the results have been spectacular but insufficient .
the income per capita has increased from two thirds to three quarters of the community average and the participation of the european funds in the growth of each of these four countries stood at an average of 0.5 % per year .
in this respect , we should consider a series of programmes for the future which will allow the new members to achieve convergence with the european union while , at the same time , the four countries which receive cohesion funds should continue to receive them so that they can achieve the true objectives of convergence , growth and the generation of full employment .
secondly , another problem is the temptation of some wealthier countries to penalise those countries which , since they receive cohesion funds , have achieved nominal convergence on the basis of serious , responsible , sympathetic and rigorous structural and economic policies , but clearly still without achieving true convergence , by eliminating them , in this case , from the cohesion fund , which could give rise to two possible situations .
thirdly , we should pay greater attention to sustainable means of transport .
we are talking about the cohesion fund and the 1998 audit , on which there is a regulation and criteria which have already been approved for 2000-2006 and we do not believe that this is the moment to change the criteria with regard to eligibility and the distribution of those funds .
mr president , honourable members , commissioner , today , eight years on from maastricht , the cohesion fund has , without a shadow of doubt , made a positive contribution towards promoting the economic and social cohesion of the regions of the eu and has had clear results in tackling social and regional disparities .
we would therefore like to commend the commission for its actions so far in implementing the objectives of the fund and we urge it to continue its efforts to ensure that the fund is used properly and helps improve its efficiency in the new programme period still further .
we must , of course , stress that the environmental aid granted continues to concentrate on the water sector , despite the need in many other cases for other measures to preserve , protect and improve the quality of the environment and the rational utilization of natural resources as laid down in article 174 of the treaty , which refers to reafforestation , land reclamation , etc .
even when measured strictly the cohesion fund has clearly played an important socio economic role in infrastructures with development potential .
we are delighted to note the increase in employment , the absence of fraud , the greatly increased monitoring and the proper implementation of the programmes .
the principle of cohesion considered in the treaty must not come under threat during enlargement .
it concerns a subject which is of great interest to me personally , given the commitment of the european union in favour of the countries which are furthest behind in development and which are catching up with the support of european solidarity .
we are talking about a budget of almost eur 17 billion for the period now beginning , 2000 2006 .
but if we look back over the last ten years , including the year cited in this report , 1998 , i would say to the members here and to all those listening to us that the four countries that were the furthest behind , ireland , greece , spain and portugal , have gained ten points in ten years in relation to the community average gross domestic product .
furthermore , several speakers from all parties have thanked him .
the form of the report is just as important as its content .
he may be sure that the commissioner for regional policy , who was once minister for the environment in his own country , is extremely supportive of this move and will oversee it personally , particularly in the programming of the cohesion fund for the next six years .
the priority was to allow the member states to respect the deadlines set in implementation of the directive on waste water , and we are well aware that the problems that i have just mentioned , in particular the matter of waste or water treatment , are problematic in the countries concerned .
i have been able to see this personally in the azores and i know that the situation is the same in the greek islands , to use these two examples : these problems are particularly difficult in the case of remote , outermost or isolated island regions .
also , with regard to the specific problems concerning the environment and thinking of islands in particular , i would like to express my wish to support investment in favour of renewable energy , and i have made this known to the member states .
having talked about content , i would like to say a word or two about form , and first of all reply to the comments of your rapporteur on the study on the socio-economic effects of the cohesion fund ordered by the commission .
the commission , which has just received this study , is currently analysing it , and in any case , it will be sent to you as soon as possible .
this is why the structural funds programmes currently being negotiated by the commission with the member states of cohesion include indicative sums for both cohesion fund aid and european investment bank aid .
the information requested by parliament is available in the individual programming documents .
in addition , i would like to emphasise that the recent restructuring of the directorate-general for regional policy brings together the geographical teams and power within the same units for structural funds and the cohesion fund , so that cohesion countries , which are eligible for structural funds in most cases , will have the same contacts within this directorate-general .
this seems to me to be a more consistent approach for these countries .
but consistency between the structural funds and the cohesion fund also means observing the specificity of these two instruments , in accordance , moreover , with the general regulation on the structural funds .
it would in fact be inappropriate to use the cohesion fund for the same purposes and in the same way as the structural funds .
in any case , i am not in a position to alter the scope of the cohesion fund , which stems directly from the treaty .
mrs schorling , you spoke of the matter of additionality .
i even said that the reality of this additionality would be one of the points which would enable me to validate or approve programmes and projects .
this report is even more useful in that it is comprehensive .
i can also assure you that beyond our regular meetings , the report on cohesion that i shall present to you at the end of this year will respond to a lot of the questions , criticisms and proposals raised by your rapporteur with regard to the pursuit of solidarity regarding countries benefiting from the cohesion fund , particularly in view of the perspective that concerns us all : enlargement .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m .
the proposed method is based on a modern geographic information system in which the cartographic information on holdings is digitised and integrated with the alphanumeric information needed to describe the holding and the aid received .
in terms of control , this method has enormous advantages and significantly reduces the possibility of fraud or any other irregularities .
in my opinion , the integration into the system of virtually all the sectors financed by the cap should be sought .
the recent court of auditors report on classical swine fever shows that , even in areas where the geographic information initially seems less important , this is actually decisive and may form a fundamental instrument in rationalising the common agricultural policy .
for the second , we know that the commission has already proposed the integration of this sector into arable crops but we do not know when and if the commission proposal will be approved .
although it is necessary to fight fraud , we must also prevent the complexity of the system causing a multiplication of minor formal irregularities and farmers being unfairly penalised .
it is unthinkable that a common policy such as the cap should be handled like a collection of fifteen national policies or , even worse , like a pile of unconnected invoices from 80 or 90 national payment authorities .
the commission must process all the geographic information now required from the fifteen member states in a coordinated manner .
nevertheless , it only demands that that information is communicated to them on request and exclusively for the preparation of verifications in situ in the process of the settlement of accounts .
effective administration must be able to provide the institutions responsible with the elements for analysis and decision and amongst these elements is the cost-efficiency index .
this approach must be applied systematically and must be based on the analysis of the payments corresponding to each regulation .
the fact that this information can only be requested for the preparation of verifications in situ in the process of the settlement of accounts sets a time limit on the availability of the fundamental information for administration and control .
therefore , in the first stage of the establishment of this integrated administration and control system , it would be sufficient to regulate the conditions for delivering the information mentioned and the need for the commission to store it .
mr president , we welcome this proposal by the commission to improve the system of control and i should like to thank mr casaca for his report .
mr casaca has made a very good effort to explain it to parliament .
it is extremely important .
it is fair to point out that the most recent report by the court of auditors for the year 1998 has not drawn attention to any single major failure of the commission in this entire area .
there have been problems but they were isolated , small offences , relating to areas of aid and also to premiums and the failure of national governments to understand the details of european law .
but we have to recognise that for the most part the commission was given a clean bill of health for 1998 which is the most recent report we have and it is to be congratulated on that .
the fact that more money is now going directly to farmers makes it easier to understand exactly what is happening .
it is reasonable to expect member states to produce the sort of detail that is necessary for the european commission both from the management point of view as well as that of accounting , to have exact details of where and to whom the money is going , down to the last recipient .
but we spend eur 1 000 million on the tobacco regime .
this is a difficult task which is only possible at all by virtue of technological progress .
in connection with the final discharge , the commission also presented the 1998 monitoring statistics to us .
in 1998 in the 15 community member states there were more than 3 million applications for " area " aid .
as the european parliament rapporteur responsible for anti-fraud measures , i would like to bring a serious problem in this area to your attention .
all the member states report any irregularities to the commission , but only a few member states tell the commission which of these cases are classified as fraudulent .
for example , according to the statistics , in the united kingdom there were 4 995 cases of over-declaration , 971 cases of duplicate applications and 52 cases of " false " applications .
but not one of these cases was classified in the statistics as being fraudulent or as giving rise to suspicions of " serious negligence " .
the far-reaching management and control measures which the commission proposes are therefore very appropriate indeed .
data on payments or revenue in respect of the eaggf , guarantee section , can only be used at the request of the commission for closing accounts .
the existence of this wealth of information should have been a reason for the european commission to adapt regulation 2390 / 99 .
in my opinion , the reservations expressed by the executive , particularly the commission ' s position on article 1 of the proposal , are unfounded .
the products which the rapporteur intends to add to the list all fall within sectors of considerable financial consequence whose control mechanisms have proved to be insufficient .
in fact , these products have all been subject to fraud and irregularity in the past .
on the basis of the above considerations , i therefore call upon the commission and the council to incorporate the position of the committee on budgetary control and , in particular , amendment no 1 and amendment no 2 .
as has also been explained , we have already taken advantage of the charging procedure , by setting a charge for those member states lagging behind in that context also .
the commission must also retain the right to carry out checks in relation to iacs .
the deviations in these 16 incorrect applications were in ten cases between 0 % and 3 % , in four cases between 3 % and 5 % and for only two applications in the entire random sample for the whole community was the deviation over 5 % .
i hope that there will be no further need for negotiations and clarification within the commission .
i simply said that any decision would have to be taken in the framework of the intergovernmental conference .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m .
they are of fundamental importance as a source of supplementary income , which is essential to the maintenance of a large number of rural operations in the least-favoured areas .
furthermore , this production is the basis of a significant primary and secondary processing industry , the key to economic diversification in rural areas which suffer very difficult conditions .
the community ' s level of self-sufficiency in this area is between 50 and 60 % .
for example , in the case of hazelnuts , the costs of production in the european union are three times greater than those in turkey as a result of the differences in labour costs .
tariff protection is very low and is being progressively dismantled following the negotiations within the world trade organisation and other preferential agreements .
despite the fact that the measures laid down in regulation ( eec ) no 789 / 89 have had positive results , they have not managed to balance the cost of production with prices on a market dominated by the enormous pressure of imports at low prices .
the problem is that the support which this production has relied on is coming to an end , while the severe production conditions have not changed , and the competition from third country production has become tougher .
furthermore , american exports to certain third countries enjoy preferential agreements which the european union does not have .
the pressure of imports is such that there is less and less difference in prices between the select varieties and the common varieties , which has a devastating effect .
the difficult growing conditions in the european union prevent competition with third countries and it is not possible to improve competitivity unless we abandon the current production areas and move production to other regions .
for these reasons , commissioner , the committee on agriculture presented the oral question which has led to this debate .
the pressure of imports and the difficult climate and soil conditions demand , therefore , support for community nut production .
these concerns , demands and requests of the committee on agriculture and the political groups in parliament are aimed at seeking a solution which involves the granting of direct aid to the income of producers which , by maintaining that cultivation , will lead to the prevention of environmental damage and depopulation and maintain certain primary and secondary processing industries in the least-favoured areas .
however , none of the programmes submitted to us by the member states , including those member states with substantial agricultural areas , contains any proposals for measures of this kind , so that no such need was evidently identified when drawing up the programmes .
but the commission should not be attacked if it was agreed beforehand that rural development was to be the responsibility of member states and included in their programmes , and if at all possible at regional level within the member states .
mr president , i must thank the commissioner for being present in this almost deserted chamber on a thursday evening .
the commissioner is aware of the problems of nuts in the european union and he is aware that we are dependent on a single supplier in many cases : the united states , on the one hand , in the case of almonds , and turkey , in the case of hazelnuts .
when you tell us that there are structural problems of low productivity and high production costs in the european union , we must ask ourselves whether we want a nut sector or whether we want to be totally dependent on outside sources ?
you tell us that there have had to be negotiations and that there is already aid from the com in fruit and also within the framework of the rural development projects .
in those cases , the operational funds - which are a very small percentage of this global production per hectare , some 1.5 or 2 % - are a reasonable amount to work with .
in the case of production per hectare which amounts to little more than esp 100 000 , i believe that the operational funds of the com in fruits have very little significance and offer very little in terms of resolving the problem of nuts .
with regard to the framework of the rural development projects , the commissioner knows much better than i do that , in rural development , the second pillar of the cap - which we all view with great hope and we congratulate him for having brought it up and united it in one budgetary line - , in the regions where these fruits are grown - which are basically objective 1 regions in some cases , and objective 2 regions in others- , the programmes developed there are leader programmes .
in these leader programmes , and proder programmes in the case of spain , where there are national programmes , which are organised from the bottom up , it will be difficult to consider a specific cultivation as being of strategic interest and as a strategic sector , when these programmes normally deal with problems of general interest .
however , commissioner , what we are proposing to you , and i believe that all the political groups are in agreement on this , is the partial continuation , not continuation sine die , but continuation until a certain date , commissioner , of improvement funds and plans , because in some cases they have still not ended , and in other cases their objectives have still not been fulfilled .
however , these funds are absolutely essential to the maintenance of the crop , as long as nuts are subject to differentiated treatment within the coming reform of the com in fruits and vegetables .
since these producers have the political support of this house , i believe that it would not be justifiable to deny them a few pesetas of economic support .
mr fischler , the european commission must not continue to ignore the requests of the sectors affected .
it must be said that both specific measures for nuts and locust beans , as well as the lump sum aid for hazelnuts , were in fact transitional measures aimed at the conversion of the crops , but there is no reason why they cannot be extended .
commissioner , a conversion in the agricultural sector cannot be treated as if it were a conversion in the industrial sector .
in industry , one can modernise plants and improve productivity , but in the case of certain crops , however much investment is made , however many changes are made in terms of marketing , we cannot alter the fact that certain areas are arid or semi-arid .
we cannot imagine that this problem can be resolved through the scant funds available in the rural development programmes .
that is not the place to find a solution for these areas , as the commissioner and the whole of the commission seems to think .
furthermore , it does not appear that an extension of this aid until the adoption of the measures proposed in the resolution , nor even until the definitive measures themselves are adopted , will cause problems within the conversations in the world trade organisation .
the sector produces a surplus and community protection is minimal .
the commission ' s main argument is that which was agreed ten years ago .
i believe that it is precisely the change in conditions compared to ten years ago which weakens the commission ' s position , and it is therefore important for them to be sensitive to an agreement which originates from the action of certain meps from the committee on agriculture and rural development and the european parliament at the moment .
it is an economic sector , i agree , but it has much greater environmental responsibility than it did ten years ago .
thirdly , if this aid is removed today , the loss of the land recovered over these ten years would be irreversible .
i therefore sincerely believe that there is no margin , either within the framework of rural development or in other areas , because we are not talking about vegetables , we are not talking about any other type of product , we are talking about a very specific product , with very specific circumstances , which were analysed ten years ago and which must be analysed today once again .
for this reason , i believe that it makes absolute sense to carry out a study of a new framework of aid and , in any event , there should be an extension with immediate effect .
mr president , commissioner fischler , ladies and gentlemen , there are not many of us , just the little mediterranean family , trying to defend the crops that brussels does not like .
the fixed aid for hazelnuts in 1996 was temporary .
you tell us that it is expensive , but you are not telling the whole truth .
and as we have told you , we are dealing with regions in spain , in my native languedoc-roussillon , in greece , where the land is arid .
our olives instead of north african olives and our spanish , italian , portuguese , greek , languedoc-roussillon and french mediterranean before anatolia and california , commissioner .
commissioner , in your speech you told us how you viewed the situation , but i can assure you that the industry does not see it in the same way .
for all these reasons , it is not surprising that there is enormous concern in the sector at the possibility that aid may be withdrawn , since without it - and we must recognise this - , given that the future of these operations , as a result of the competition from third countries , is in jeopardy and the investment made in the modernisation of the production systems - which has taken place on a significant scale - will have been pointless .
i would therefore also like to ask you , commissioner , on behalf of the producers in the sector and especially on behalf of the producers in catalonia , for the specific aid to this sector to be continued in the way that has been pointed out here and along the lines of the motion for a resolution which i hope will receive the support of this house .
any other type of aid such as those you have mentioned , above all rural development aid , may be positive in other sectors , it is true , but in this case , given the specific nature of the sector , they are totally insufficient to guarantee the competitiveness , and therefore the survival , of these operations , whose interests the commission - you , commissioner - can in no way ignore .
mr president , here again , i would simply like to draw attention to the fact that , in this crop that i know so well , the return on investment is long term .
but every farmer who has made an investment in this area signed a contract at the outset before he made that investment , so that he knew for exactly how many years he would be receiving investment aid .
if a case is being made that this type of farming is absolutely essential for maintaining the landscape and preserving the environment , particularly in these dry areas , then this is an ideal case for environmental measures .
you cannot argue that this is an important form of agriculture if it is obviously not important enough for the regional authorities to give it priority and grant support for it .
i understand that the first point of order ever raised in the directly-elected parliament in 1979 was by the reverend doctor ian paisley and his point was that the british flag was flying upside-down .
i am advised that it is the most popular flag to be stolen in this place .
mr president , last year , the majority of meps in this house voted in favour of friday morning sittings .
i am therefore using the time available to me to make this statement .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , regulation no 302 / 93 , the amendment of which is the subject of this report , establishes and regulates the operations of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction .
in the meantime , new figures have come to light , as a result both of its operating experiences and from the so-called " independent assessment report " , published this march , and even as a result of developments in the union itself , in its acquis and in the challenges it faces .
as the recent report on the assessment of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction emphasised , that institution has made an enormous contribution to european drugs policy , as it has filled in the gaps in our information and knowledge about this issue .
the same report concluded that the monitoring centre has undertaken an impressive number of projects since its inception , and these have provided added value for the european fight against drugs .
the work undertaken on synthetic drugs has stood out for its efficiency and timeliness .
the committee took into particular consideration the 1999 report on the centre ' s work and the difficulties encountered , and the outcome of the interinstitutional conference on drugs which took place in brussels late last february .
we believe that the agreement on the participation of norway in the work of the centre , which , we hope , will pave the way for other enlargement initiatives , provides a major opportunity to revitalise the activity of this technical and scientific body , for the emcdda must become an increasingly important reference point in the development of a european policy to fight the illegal sale and distribution of drugs which are harmful to the health of the citizens of our countries .
the drugs policy will only be effective if the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is accorded a fundamental role .
the independent assessment of the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction , the conclusions of which were published in march 2000 , is very specific regarding the serious mismanagement of the board of directors and of the reitox network , which gathers information on drugs and drug addiction .
i therefore join the rapporteur in arguing in favour of the idea of a real reform of the centre for drugs and drug addiction , in respect both of the way it functions and of expanding its activities .
i also believe that if we fail to take this opportunity to amend the regulation with a view to relaunching the centre ' s work , we run the risk of creating further problems when it comes to incorporating the applicant countries in this work .
mr president , we are examining two proposals for partial revision of the working procedures and methods of the lisbon drugs monitoring centre , in particular two proposals on relations with the candidate countries and norway .
this is therefore our chance - for the contents of these proposals are not in themselves revolutionary for the centre - to discuss the role and usefulness of the centre in terms of its function , which should also be our function , of providing political indications and assessments and adopting decisions and initiatives on drugs , although the european union ' s powers in this area are severely limited .
the commission must present a proposal for reforming the procedures which are described as bureaucratic and tedious and , above all , failing to focus on the scientific function of the centre .
unfortunately , his amendments overshoot the mark by a long way in some respects .
i am unhappy about adding turkey to the list of candidate countries that are eligible for support from the emcdda .
according to the report , it would then become a data bank without a critical dimension .
mr president , as one of the longest-serving members in the house my memory goes back right to the first committee of inquiry into drugs in the community on which i had the honour to serve .
we all too often have a tendency in parliament , i am afraid , when we cannot to do anything more concrete , to set up another institution .
that makes us feel good but does not actually change anything .
so it is appropriate that we look at the work of this observatory in lisbon at this stage .
i take this opportunity to say to my dear colleagues from all parties in the netherlands : your policies have tended to become like a honeypot for the criminal element in many of the accession countries .
the observatory in lisbon cannot work effectively without very close relationships with the europol agency in the hague .
there is an element of hypocrisy here , because half the house voted against having stronger measures on tobacco advertising and - i choose my words carefully - there are many members in this house who are regular users , to different degrees , of alcohol , which is a very powerful drug .
for the work of the monitoring centre in lisbon to be effective , member states have to cooperate fully .
so we cannot exclude one country because we do not like it very much : we have to open our doors to as many countries as we can and encourage the work that is being done .
on the other hand , however , both the rapporteur and the members have stressed that this occasion calls for reflection upon the way in which the centre operates and upon the results it has produced in recent years , and i feel that we cannot say we are satisfied with its performance up until now .
the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction , established 7 years ago , is an important tool for collating comparable data from the member states .
at least two main criteria must be met if we are to achieve this objective : first , we need reliable assessments of the measures taken and , if they are efficient , we need to implement them , not only in the member states , but also in the candidate countries , the rest of central and eastern europe and in any third country with the right legal framework under relevant agreements .
it is important that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction , in the context of the positive climate that exists in parliament with regard to drugs , also acquires sufficient resources for its anti-drugs activities outside the european union .
there are two comments i would like to make .
mr president , the fight against drugs is one of the most important tasks we have as citizens and politicians .
i say that notwithstanding the fact that some of your amendments go further than our proposals , particularly when it comes to the improvements proposed for the functioning of the monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction .
the commission agrees with parliament that the functioning of the emcdda must be improved .
the agreement is also of significance to the european union , because , as everyone knows , the drugs problem knows no borders .
five out of the 22 amendments in the sousa pinto report relate directly to this issue .
if that happens , we would have to abandon a phare project costing eur two million , intended to help the candidate countries in eastern europe to set up or reinforce national centres with the aid of technical assistance from the emcdda .
it would not be possible to carry these funds over after 31 december 2000 .
lastly , these amendments introduce the idea of compiling a report on the functioning of the emcdda every three years .
in accordance with rule 69 , the rapporteur can ask , if parliament so decides , to postpone the vote and the matter will be deemed to be referred back to the committee responsible for reconsideration .
i would point out to you that article 69 stipulates that this procedure takes place without debate .
these are two aspects of a fascinating world , which clearly requires protection , but also requires flexibility .
the directive states that the member states must be able to strike a balance between the community right and copyright .
i would point out that copyrights last for as long as 70 years in a number of states .
thus , if we were to add the 25 years to the 70 years , we would end up preventing the modification of a common product which often - and also , so to speak , by its very nature and taking into account novelty and creativity - cannot last very long , not beyond the lifetime of a human being , for example , and therefore a ceiling of 25 years would seem reasonable .
as regards the regulation , the first point i should like to make is that it derives from the 1993 directive .
it is high time this regulation came into being : we cannot delay it any longer .
generally speaking , these amendments considerably enhance the text and i believe the commission will adopt them without any problem .
the fact that this agreement - which is far from perfect , but which provided a way out of the impasse in such a contentious issue - was reached , made the task of creating this regulation and this report on the commission ' s proposal far easier .
the rapporteur ' s first report did advocate certain proposals which , though he believed them to be correct , in the opinion -and i believe in the better informed opinion - of many groups in parliament , contradicted the freeze compromise relating to the repair clause .
i am delighted to be able to inform you that the commission supports the recommendations in the following amendments : 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 13 , 14 , 16 , 18 and 20 .
however , some of the amendments , and particularly amendments nos 10 , 11 , 21 , 22 and 23 are not entirely consistent with what was agreed within the context of the 1998 directive on design and so , unfortunately , the commission is unable to accept them .
furthermore , i would like briefly to take up the matter of design protection in the use of component parts of complex products for repair purposes , which is the subject of proposed amendments nos 6 and 12 .
in addition , i would like to make reference to amendments nos 15 and 19 , about counterfeiting .
on a final note , i would like to thank the members of this house for their support and cooperation in respect of this important regulation .
the debate is closed .
the language regime of the trade mark office was explicitly chosen in the old 1993 proposal for a regulation .
i therefore suggest that the court of justice reconsider the way this procedure works .
the fact that 1101 letters of formal notice , 675 reasoned opinions and 123 referrals have been presented to the court of justice clearly highlight the difficulties inherent in applying european community law .
there are considerable delays - often one , two or even three years - between the committee on petitions ' or the european commission ' s final decision on a matter following the initial complaint .
among other things , the amendments call for a certain degree of harmonisation in european administrative law so that all citizens of the union receive equal treatment .
it is our duty to take on board the fact that there is still a great deal to do in the internal market in terms of standardisation , but also and above all , we must realise that there are a great many gaps in the development of the european legal system .
petitions to the commission and the european parliament in this context should give us not only food for thought , but also cause for concern .
the present grotius and falcone programmes have become out-dated as a result of developments .
this committee forms the interface between the european citizen , the european parliament and the commission .
i have on more than one occasion in this house referred , as others have done , to the shocking case of the foreign language lecturers in italy who first received a judgment in their favour eleven years ago .
if we do not satisfy these we let ourselves down in the face of our own aspirations .
mr president , fellow members , this community law which we are helping to establish presents serious difficulties as far as application in member states is concerned .
the way in which this report has been adopted is appalling .
i would stress that , as guardian of the treaties , the commission has been closely monitoring the situation since 1 february 2000 and , to this day , it has not found any grounds for criticism , which makes it clear that neither the community based on law nor that based on values is being violated in austria .
the overall message put forward is that community law must be applied properly ; our community is a legal community ; there will either be a european rule of law or not ; and monitoring compliance with community law must be considered a priority .
we need to improve the way in which the infringement procedure operates , but do so in a way that does not prevent citizens in the slightest from fully exercising their right to directly contact the commission which , at the end of the day , is what brings them closer to it .
i agree with her : there is nothing more important that we could devote time to discussing in this parliament .
so instead of reducing working time in this house we should devote a little more time to underlining the failures of the european union to implement its decisions .
there are some areas that people , particularly in business , are well-familiar with , such as the single market .
someone pointed out the fact that we need 100 million migrant workers in this union over the next 25 years if we are to maintain economic growth and meet our social obligations .
mr president , the report on monitoring the application of community law that has today been put before you , is the sixteenth report of its kind .
in this way , the demand made by parliament in its resolution of 9 february 1983 , has been fulfilled .
the commission constantly endeavours to improve the speed and efficiency , not to mention the transparency , of its working methods in this sphere .
in this respect , the commission ' s recent initiatives in the sphere of information for the citizen , such as ' europe direct ' also guarantee enhanced transparency .
it is quite clear from the sixteenth report that these complaints are indispensable to the services of the commission in their investigations into breaches of community law .
the commission is endeavouring to nip breaches of community law in the bud and is therefore constantly updating its procedures pertaining to the monitoring of the application of community law .
by amending article 234 of the aforementioned treaty , the intention is to achieve the following .
the commission is also aiming for more effective implementation of community law in the member states by making the monitoring of the transposition measures pertaining to the community directives more systematic .
as far as the possibility of taking account of the application of the second and third pillars in the report is concerned , i would reiterate that we have no instrument at our disposal , within the framework of these pillars , that bears comparison with the infringement procedures laid down in article 226 of the ec treaty .
proof that these conclusions were unanimously adopted lies in the fact that they were signed by the chairman of the committee on petitions , another member of the committee on petitions from the european people ' s party , two members of the socialist group and i myself as draftsman of the opinion .
i am of the view that it is imperative for any report on the application of community law to incorporate the committee on petitions ' conclusions , as this committee plays such a key role in ensuring member states apply community law .
the fact is that the basic points made by the committee on petitions have already been included in the text of the report i drew up .
the debate is closed .
we shall now proceed to the vote . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) explanations of vote mr president , my group abstained from voting on the grossetete report because in the middle of the perfectly acceptable general considerations on the application of community law , the resolution put to the vote included a paragraph which we are unable to accept .
this article stipulates that the court of justice may , as it sees fit , impose penalties or fines , sometimes very stiff ones , on a member state that , for whatever reason , fails to apply community law .
pierre pflimlin was a true statesman .
pierre pflimlin belonged to that historic generation of europeans who , since the end of the war , as a member of parliament , a minister and a political activist , was at the forefront of all the efforts to build a strong and reunited europe .
he was elected first vice-president in 1982 and was president from 1984 to 1987 .
for pierre pflimlin was also a man of dialogue .
pierre pflimlin left the european parliament in 1989 , but for many europeans , especially young people , he remained an authoritative voice , someone who could generate enthusiasm for the political objective of building europe .
it was under pierre pflimlin ' s presidency , in 1986 , that the european flag and anthem were adopted as symbols of the european union .
i shall therefore ask you to please agree to rise while we play the european anthem in memory of president pflimlin . ( the house rose and the european anthem was played ) statement by the president several days ago , ladies and gentlemen , 58 illegal immigrants tragically died in a lorry at the british border .
this was on 18 june .
every one of us was , i am sure , outraged at this tragedy , and i am sure that we are all agreed that the european union should step up its fight against this sort of modern-day slavery .
the treaty of amsterdam has been in force for one year and the european council at tampere was held six months ago .
i would like to give you this opportunity to let us know what you understood the protocol of that meeting to be , and perhaps also to clarify what you said to the press afterwards .
i can , however , tell you that the euro was the focus of all my discussions with the authorities i met , and that they all showed great interest in this question .
thank you , mr tajani .
in connection with these events , i would like to give you advance notice of our proposal , which we will expand in detail later on , to include a point referring to the said incidents in the topical and urgent questions on hooliganism .
i therefore call upon the members to support this point when we vote on the topical and urgent subjects , for this will allow parliament to express an opinion as it has a duty to do .
i was in rotterdam myself , in the spirit of complete impartiality necessitated by my position as president of the european parliament , and i can confirm that the atmosphere was indeed as you describe .
thank you , mr blak .
agenda the next item is the examination of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the conference of presidents pursuant to rule 110 of the rules of procedure .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , three months ago there was a coup in fiji .
in my view this contravenes rule 50 and annex iii of our rules of procedure .
i have had representations to the effect that people are looking to the european union for some kind of effective action , possibly - and this could be debated in the context of the resolution - some kind of sanctions under the lome convention .
i do not want to debate the content now but i do want to ask that this be maintained on the agenda , because after what has happened over the weekend , there is still a risk of considerable discrimination against one ethnic group in fiji .
i now come to another request from the group of the party of european socialists , this time to remove the following item , " tibet " .
in 1992 i personally produced a report on tibet .
on 15 april here in this house we unanimously adopted a resolution on tibet , and now we are repeating what we said on 15 april , perhaps with one or two minor additions .
madam president , tibet is an issue which is on our agenda year after year after year , and to that extent i understand the point that the honourable member has made .
it is an urgent issue because in recent months we have seen various measures being taken by the chinese government to move people into the area of tibet and to exploit the natural resources there .
it is urgent that we put pressure on them to withdraw support for these measures so that this parliament can stand up for the people of tibet , stand up for democracy , stand up for the stopping of what is an illegal act in international law . ( parliament rejected the request ) president .
still on the subject of topical and urgent debate , regarding the " human rights " section , i have received three requests to replace the sub-item on " hooliganism " : a request from the group of the greens / european free alliance to replace this item with a new sub-item entitled " outbreaks of racism in germany and the killing of alberto adriano " , a request from the group of the party of european socialists to replace this sub-item by one entitled " incidents at the rotterdam football stadium " , and a request from the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party to replace this sub-item by one entitled " desecration of prague ' s oldest jewish cemetery " .
that is the background to this motion ; the idea is that we state clearly that europe has a vocation to be a multicultural europe and that europe supports all democratic forces battling against racism and neo-nazism .
it is with this in mind that i ask you to support our request . ( parliament rejected the request from the group of the greens / european free alliance ) president .
madame napoletano , i do not think that i need to put this proposal to the vote .
our group feels that it must be made clear to candidate countries such as the czech republic that the european union insists on respect being shown for fundamental rights such as freedom of worship and philosophy of life .
the member state which has responsibility for that question is the united kingdom .
but it is very important in this matter to draw a distinction between britain - as the state which has overall responsibility - and one of its parts , namely england .
i have received a request from the group of the party of european socialists to remove the sub-item on iraq .
this also applies here , to iraq .
i think that this would be wrong and irresponsible of parliament , and that is why we are asking for this item to be withdrawn . ( parliament rejected the request ) president .
we now have a request to replace the item on venezuela with a new item entitled " colombia and the international conference of donor countries in madrid " .
madam president , there is to be an international conference on 7 july on the " colombia plan " which is to bring donor countries together , in the context of the aid plan for that country , also known as the " marshall plan " .
in any event , we think it important that the european parliament should express its opinion on the subject in the few days before this conference .
madam president , i do not wish to speak against the proposal because i am in complete agreement with what my friend and fellow member , paul lannoye , has just said .
i do , however , deplore the fact that this proposal is set to replace a resolution on venezuela which is the follow up to a visit to that country by an official delegation from the european parliament following the serious floods which devastated that country , especially as we have not had an opportunity to discuss the matter since then .
obviously , the czech republic still has more time to implement the acquis communautaire in full , but people might well have doubts about whether the czech republic is willing even now to start taking on board these aspects of european policy which are of fundamental importance for its citizens and for environment policy .
i think that the european parliament also ought to speak out on this .
this absurd debate demonstrates that a provan report on urgent procedures would be welcome , because the prime minister of portugal has been waiting an hour for us to finish .
i do not understand how a political group in this house can table two motions to replace a point on the agenda .
mr baron crespo , this is perfectly permissible under the rules of procedure .
that is why we should like to add this item .
the matter is potentially a very serious one , involving perhaps a breach of article 10 of the treaties , and i believe it requires more serious consideration than can be given to a topical and urgent motion on a thursday afternoon .
but a topical and urgent motion would shed more heat than light on the matter , and seems to me to be an inappropriate vehicle .
therefore i would appeal to members to vote against this request . ( parliament gave its assent ) the other two requests therefore lapse , and there are no further requests for amendments to the agenda . ( the order of business was adopted thus amended ) european council / portuguese presidency the next item is the joint debate on the european council report and the commission statement on the european council meeting at feira and the statement by the president-in-office of the council regarding the portuguese presidency .
now that these six months are over , i think that we can say quite simply that we have fulfilled our duty .
the second part of our strategy was to strengthen political union in europe , on the basis of our universal values and by cementing europe ' s role as the leading architect of a new design for international relations , one that is more multipolar , more balanced and more equitable .
i think that i can say that these objectives have been fully achieved .
these four elements of the strategy have already produced tangible results .
this coordination is also being supported by a strong desire for political leadership at the highest level with regard to economic and social reforms .
no political federal power can forego a strong federal budget and strong federal competences . ( applause ) therefore , a vague , abstract discussion at institutional level , which does not fully weigh up the financial and tax-related consequences of this federal model , is , in our opinion , a meaningless discussion .
the work on enlargement has moved at a great pace over these six months .
even where the countries of the helsinki group are concerned , a significant number of dossiers have already been opened and many others have been closed .
at this point , i must stress the extremely important and dynamic role played by the commission in speeding up the pace of these negotiations .
we also know , however , that we , the european union , have not been balkanised and we are now acting in an integrated way .
i would also like to thank parliament for its efforts in solving the problem of financial support for montenegro , which we felt was essential , in order to send a very clear message to all those who are trying to establish democracy in that area .
i am sure that we all agreed with everything you said about his role as one of the architects of europe and of democratic accountability in europe .
before saying a few words myself about the recent european council in feira which i attended with president prodi , who is not with us this afternoon because he is attending a meeting in paris with the new presidency , i would like , on behalf of all my colleagues in the commission , to pay tribute to the hard work , skill and energy that the portuguese government has devoted over the last six months to the presidency of the council .
this ensured the success not only of the lisbon and feira summits , but of the day-to-day work behind the scenes that is vital in carrying europe towards its ambitious goals .
i would just like to add that it was a great pleasure working with the team of portuguese ministers , as well as an extremely rewarding experience .
the european council on 19 and 20 june was a very valuable meeting of important consolidation .
the council gave , as the prime minister said , renewed encouragement to the work that has already been begun , particularly on the e-europe action plan , research and enterprise policy and the extremely important subject of social inclusion .
fourth , the council welcomed the broad economic guidelines for 2000 and recommended their adoption by the council .
during the feira meeting we were shocked , as you said madam president , by the news of the tragic death of 58 illegal immigrants hidden in a truck in dover .
the tragedy at dover underlines europe 's urgent need for a common immigration and asylum policy ; a point that i notice much of the media -including in the country i know best - has been making .
the commission will be putting forward proposals on these matters before the end of the year .
trafficking in human beings is a serious international crime that no one government can tackle single-handedly .
our citizens expect no less than that , and we must live up to their expectations .
the commission has been working energetically in this area .
this complex agreement involves the directive on the taxation of savings .
the directive should be adopted by unanimity no later than 31 december 2002 .
we took stock of the european union 's relations with russia and the situation there , including in chechnya , in the light of the recent eu-russia summit , which i think was regarded as fairly successful .
on chechnya , there have , it is true , been some recent moderately positive developments in response to international and european union pressure : for example the recent echo mission was able to take place and western humanitarian agencies have greater access to the area .
the mediterranean strategy is global , covering all countries in the region and including the consolidation of peace in the middle east .
at feira , javier solana and i presented a follow-up report outlining what had been achieved in the western balkans since lisbon .
i was in kosovo again last week for what was my fourth visit and i also visited the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on friday .
i just want to add a couple of points .
i hope that we can also expect strong support for the proposals that we have put forward for asymmetric autonomous trade measures for the region .
before i conclude , i would like to say something briefly about the eu-india summit .
we have sometimes , in the union , underestimated the importance of india and underestimated the importance of developing our economic and political relationship with it .
it is a democracy which shares many of our values and had a tradition of political tolerance when we still believed in the divine right of kings .
to conclude , the feira council crowned an extremely successful portuguese presidency .
the prime minister mentioned some of the constitutional discussions that we have started to have in the european union .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , vice-president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , first of all , i would like to echo our president ' s tribute to president pfimlin , who , as well as being a predecessor of mine and a great friend , was the person who welcomed the spanish and portuguese meps when we arrived in this house , precisely because we had built a community of values in our countries of the type we are now trying to strengthen .
i believe that this is an essential point because the prime minister of portugal , over recent months , has indicated that he is firmly committed to defending these common values .
i would like to return this compliment because , during my years of experience in this house , i had never known a prime minister to appear three times during a presidency , but he has done just that .
in relation to the lisbon summit i would like to highlight the importance which my group attaches to the triangle of employment , social cohesion and competitiveness , which is absolutely essential to us , and which is already part , not only of the portuguese presidency ' s plans , but also of our policies , and which has been strengthened in feira .
if we are to progress in a serious and socially just way , it is very important that we take the step of dealing with all these incomes jointly , and , furthermore , i believe that this is a good first step in relation to the process of globalisation .
i would like to point out firstly that , in relation to the charter of fundamental rights , although it has still not been included , an important step has been made in that direction .
i agree with the challenge set by president guterres when he said that we have to talk about federalism in all areas .
madam president , i would like to make a final observation in relation to an important decision taken by the portuguese presidency bilaterally with thirteen governments .
i must say that the european parliament and the commission have been on the same wavelength since february and the portuguese presidency cannot be criticised for defending our community of values in the face of a decision of a political party to form a government with another party whose ideology and beliefs are absolutely contrary to our common values .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of the liberal group , i would like to join in the moving tributes to president pflimlin , and am only too pleased to extend warm congratulations to portugal on its presidency .
as far as external relations are concerned , the liberal group welcomes the idea of a summit between the european union and the most democratically advanced countries in the western balkans .
as far as the results of the feira summit are concerned , however , we are rather more sceptical .
the real initiatives - highlighted by parliament in all of its resolutions for years - are in some cases not even being discussed in the preparations for the intergovernmental conference .
it is therefore not surprising that this virtual agreement should have been particularly warmly welcomed by those who have never been keen on a greater balance between legislation on capital and labour and who have always opposed mounting any joint action against these tax havens for tax evasion , fraud or the movement of large sums of money .
the presidency can and must be divided between member states , since this is symbolic of the fact that we share a common path .
in the european parliament alone , 406 members supported this disastrous move .
the portuguese presidency attempted to bring some basic realism back to certain fundamental issues .
it served only to create distrust in an atmosphere that is already very sensitive .
any idea of a pioneer group does not correspond to the idea of european cooperation that unites us .
i believe that parliament too must take considerable responsibility for having undermined this body that is central to european construction , but i think that the council is continuing to exacerbate the sideways shift and that we must , as a matter of urgency , change course and put the commission back at the centre of the community ' s construction .
i believe that in the course of this intergovernmental conference we cannot avoid starting to plan and set ourselves an agenda for the reform of the european union providing for gradual communitisation of the common foreign and security policy .
the precedence of eu law may be dated back to the judgements given in 1962 and 1964 .
the right of veto in accordance with the luxembourg compromise prevailed from 1966 to 1986 .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the council presidency has given itself a bit of a pat on the back by declaring that the portuguese presidency has done what it set out to do , no more and no less than that .
above all , there is the respect with which the portuguese presidency always treated this parliament , which will certainly have contributed to future presidencies adopting a new stance in their relations with parliament .
first and foremost , i would cite the postponement of the decision on the charter of fundamental rights .
the decision making in the field of the cesdp also demonstrates the lack of unanimity amongst the member states .
the ambiguity of europe ' s intentions is even more apparent in annex 2 to the presidency ' s conclusions on relations between the european union and nato .
in short , after all these years , europe still does not know what it wants .
the portuguese presidency has shown yet again that it is high time the tasks and competences of europe and the national member states were given clear definition .
mr president , i am similarly dismayed at the way in which austria continues to be prejudged by 14 member states and in my view , despite the many words of praise about the portuguese presidency , the absurdity of the sanctions against austria , which member states agreed together but are applying bilaterally , will , as a german newspaper once wrote , go down as a peculiar irony in the history of the eu and therefore unfortunately also in the history of the portuguese presidency .
the work of the presidency will surely only be credible if the values which are to be defended are binding on all the member states of the eu and are not employed arbitrarily and on demand as political propaganda by individual politicians against a democratically-elected government of an eu member state .
mr president , firstly i would like to add my voice to those who earlier paid their respects to the memory of president pflimlin .
the berlin speeches by foreign minister fischer , visionary and controversial , by president chirac , controversial but not visionary , and by prime minister blair , neither visionary nor controversial , which threaten to overshadow the memory of the portuguese presidency , leave certain questions in the mind which the portuguese presidency can still help us with .
secondly , on enlargement , could he confirm that there is still the political will in the council so that candidate countries , this house and the public of europe can expect to hear target dates announced for the first wave of accession ?
however , i have one question : have we indeed made clear to the candidate countries that the debate on closer cooperation mainly applies to them at the moment and that we are in a hurry to complete the arrangements before new partners join the european union ?
the future of europe depends on two major issues : democracy and employment .
it means independence for europe from the united states and therefore greater autonomy for nato .
the portuguese presidency referred to federalism and to future issues in general , but without , for example , raising the matter of own resources and without a spectacular increase in own resources , enlargement will become practically impossible and politically painful .
mr president , the feira council neither surprised nor disappointed us .
there must therefore be some mistake here , either in the simultaneous interpreting or in the register of votes .
we will clarify this matter , mr ribeiro e castro .
mr president , it is not possible in a mere 240 seconds to give a full report of the positive work which president guterres and all his team have done on behalf of the european union .
it is not that we socialists wish to see a policy of economic coordination against the central bank , but we do wish to see constructive dialogue between the decision makers in monetary policy and the decision makers in national economic policy , with each party , obviously , having to retain its own autonomy of action and decision making .
a few simple rules must be set within the economic and financial affairs council , but more especially within the euro-11 , requiring every finance minister to justify to his fellows the broad outlines of his draft budget or tax reform or any other national action likely to affect the european union as a whole .
the development of the internal market also necessitates new regulations in order to guarantee workers ' rights in the event of business mergers or buyouts , in order to avoid relocations for reasons of fiscal or social dumping and in order to guarantee basic public services for all sectors of the population , especially the most vulnerable .
the socialists expect the upcoming french presidency to ensure that the draft social agenda makes rapid progress and is substantial in content .
the phenomenal development of the internet within our societies must not blind us to the fact that there is a digital divide and that the gap between info-rich and info-poor is increasing in developed countries and , more especially , in the third world .
mr president , i would have so many more things to say but , unfortunately , my speaking time is running out : 240 seconds is really not very much at all .
mr president , mr president-in-office , mr commissioner , i really wish with all my heart - given my political views - that the portuguese had had an easier presidency , a presidency without the strains caused by the bilateral sanctions imposed on the federal austrian government and therefore on my country .
the longer this policy remains on the boil the more indigestible it is , not only for my country but also for the whole european union .
it was not least for this reason - since these measures are of course devoid of any legal base - that parliament 's president , nicole fontaine , pointed out at the beginning of the feira summit that the european parliament had adopted a resolution on 15 june calling on the council to analyse relations between austria and the other 14 member states , and to draw up with all the parties concerned a procedure which would enable a solution to be found which would be acceptable to everyone .
sustainable stability must be proved by all countries which want to join the euro zone , but also by those which are already in it .
in this way , funds will also be released for social policy and social security will not have to find the money to cover a lack of income owing to fraud .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the portuguese presidency was a pro-active presidency .
the agreements on the common foreign and security policy bear witness to parliament ' s total exclusion .
we are slipping into a more intergovernmental and less federal europe and this must be checked as a matter of urgency .
firstly , the danger of a shift towards an intergovernmental approach .
before the feira summit , we also held a forum attended by representatives of parliament , the commission and the council , member states , and also the european central bank , the european investment bank , the economic and social council , the committee of the regions and our social partners .
i therefore fully agree with all those who feel that the union ' s true nature must be preserved as a union and strengthened as such , and that a shift towards an intergovernmental approach is highly undesirable .
secondly , the intergovernmental conference .
it was not the portuguese presidency ' s responsibility to conclude the work of the intergovernmental conference .
the next question would be : will it be possible to conclude the igc ?
with regard to the charter of fundamental rights , i feel particularly comfortable with this issue , because the portuguese government has always recommended that a charter of fundamental rights should be included in the treaty .
my desire , the desire of the portuguese government , is that this charter should become a fundamental instrument of the union .
this shows that we were working at top speed , in excellent cooperation with the commission - and i must here emphasise the role of commissioner verheugen - in order to move forward as quickly as possible with the work on enlargement .
the lisbon summit laid down a strategy .
we have talked about the information society and the information society action plan has been approved .
this is the key issue and this is the issue on which the commission has now been instructed to work in certain crucial areas , which , we feel , will result in very important decisions for the european union in the near future .
we must do this - and let us be quite clear about this - because xenophobia and racism do exist in our societies , in all our countries .
the honourable member asked me how i saw the relationship between the institutions - between the council , the commission and parliament .
i can answer very directly : in my own area it is a subject about which i have made one or two speeches recently .
we have to apply to the budgetary authority - to parliament and the council - for the level of our commitments in external relations every year , but we should be involved in a much more open dialogue with the budgetary authority about the direction in which those spending commitments should go .
there should be a more serious exchange about our political priorities .
finally , i should like to pay one last compliment in the direction of the portuguese presidency at the end of its term .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i believe that we have here a very good example of cooperation between the european commission and the european parliament .
we are grateful to the commission for this , and i think that this is a good example of the commission responding to initiatives emanating from parliament and acting on them .
on the other hand , i must also make a number of critical comments .
i believe that the commission has overshot the mark somewhat in its proposal .
at this stage i should like to express my grateful thanks for the constructive cooperation which we have enjoyed with the finnish and portuguese presidencies , and i am sure that in our further discussions we will also cooperate fruitfully with the french presidency .
that is why we decided in the committee even before the summer break that we would enter into detailed consultations now in the first reading , complete the normal procedure of first and second readings and then await the council 's common position .
this should not , however , prevent us from continuing to seek to cooperate with the council on this issue because the tampere summit made the fight against money laundering its very top priority , and rightly so .
article 280 of the ec treaty clearly states that , " the community and the member states shall counter fraud and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the community through measures to be taken in accordance with this article , which shall act as a deterrent and be such as to afford effective protection ... " .
however , we do recognise the delimitation problems and , if there is simply a reference to article 280 of the treaty , we are prepared to go along with the rapporteur .
we must bear in mind , as has already been said by the rapporteur , that the proposal we are considering is before us at our request , at the request of parliament , because we wanted to get to grips with money-laundering , with this international crime which represents a substantial threat to the single market .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , if we vote in favour of this directive tomorrow or the day after we will be establishing one of the cornerstones of the fight against organised crime because , as diemut theato mentioned , the driving force behind organised crime is the money from drug trafficking , from trafficking in human beings and from all forms of organised crime .
that is why it is so important that we take up the battle here against money laundering and prevent it from happening .
because if we succeed in stamping out money laundering then we will also stamp out organised crime .
the situation has changed .
that is why it is absolutely essential for the european parliament , for the institutions , the commission and the council , to make decisions here so that we have a new effective instrument with which to combat money laundering .
mr president , in recent years criminal organisations within and outside europe have set up powerful international networks which make huge profits from , for example , trafficking in women or drugs .
the fight against money laundering is a top political priority .
both at the tampere summit and the feira summit , the european council asked the european parliament and the council of ministers to approve this proposal , which provides for the scope of application of the 1991 money laundering directive to be updated and extended , as soon as they possibly could .
almost everyone agrees that the directive of 10 june 1991 on prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering has worked well .
the commission is largely well-disposed towards the underlying idea or the intention behind the lion ' s share of the proposed amendments , but would prefer at this stage not to go for a technical solution .
this applies to amendments nos 4 and 12 .
as far as tax consultants and accountants are concerned , at this stage the commission has not yet taken a definitive stance on whether the same conditions should be applied to these professions as are applied to lawyers , and hence whether a limited number of their transactions should fall within the scope of the directive , or whether the directive should apply more widely to these professions .
but the problem there is that more often than not , this type of dealer is not regulated at all and that it can therefore seem difficult , not to say impossible , to establish whether they have fulfilled their obligations .
the commission will continue its search for a suitable way of bringing these dealers within the directive ' s scope of application .
it will continue to work on this aspect of the proposal .
the commission is prepared to look into the extent to which ucits ( undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ) and collecting societies should fall within the scope of the directive .
the commission is prepared to work with the member states to establish what the role of the market supervisory authorities should be .
amendments nos 31 , 32 , 41 en 43 .
there is nothing in the proposal to stop the member states from going further than the requirements laid down in the directive .
these amendments seem to deny olaf any authority whatsoever within the scope of this directive .
the commission takes the view that these amendments could place too many restrictions on the application of this directive to the legal professions .
the proposal cannot treat customs and tax officials in the same way as it does financial institutions or professions falling within the scope of the directive .
this aspect must be left to the member states .
the commission feels that each member state must decide for itself as to whether there is a role for registers of mortgages in the fight against money laundering .
the obligations contained in the directive cannot be extended to beyond the territory of the european union .
the commission cannot agree to this item being dropped because it would mean a cooperation obligation being imposed on the bar when this obligation can only properly be fulfilled by the normal anti-money laundering authorities .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m .
in order to transfer data to third countries , it must be established whether the countries guarantee an adequate level of protection .
the european commission will ascertain that the third country provides adequate data protection and oblige the member states to adopt standardised procedures .
the case of the united states of america , where there is no general data protection legislation in the private sector , is different .
recently , on 6 june , the european commission sent us the instruments it had drawn up on the basis of the conclusions reached and which it considers constitute adequate protection .
in fact , since there will be neither law nor contract , individuals do not have rights which can be invoked in court .
the safe harbour system can only be considered to afford an adequate level of protection under article 25 of the directive if genuine protection is guaranteed for european citizens whose rights have been violated , that is if there is the possibility of getting the unlawfully processed data erased and of obtaining compensation for damages by means of recourse to a judge or arbitrator or any independent third party who has been assigned the task of guaranteeing that reparation is made for any harm suffered .
in this light , i would argue , and i hope that the majority of parliament will vote likewise by means of the amendments presented by my group and others , for a " yes " , but on the strict condition that we see realism , respect for the law , respect for institutional balance , but above all , mr president , respect for the citizens and their interests .
it is to safeguard our responsibility , as established in the very ambiguous amendment no 6 .
i must point out that the united states have at least 25 years of experience in this type of system , which supports the idea that this can work and that it is going to work .
i hope that tomorrow this house will support this position which , as i have said , is ultimately in the interest of the citizens of europe .
mr president , i should like to compliment the commission on sticking with the negotiations with the usa over the last two years .
but if we express our very strong reservations and to ask for clear review , this will give our citizens protection now and offer us progress in this very difficult area .
in the context of an agreement with the united states , the rapporteur emphasised the extent to which this country lacked any legally binding standard on personal data protection .
it would be a great shame , particularly now that , after years of discussion , the council appears to be willing to set up a proper european body to monitor the use of personal data , if we were to ease off the pressure in terms of our demands on the subject with regard to third countries in general and the united states in particular .
it is a condition sine qua non for any real protection of citizens ' individual liberties .
if we adopt this report , we will not only be expressing our political will to succeed in concluding an agreement containing protection clauses which respect european legislation , but we will also be encouraging a large proportion of congress and of united states ' public opinion to develop personal data protection laws .
clearly , we cannot know how the united states will react to our concerns .
naturally the commission believes that it has used its authority correctly with regard to its proposal for a decision on the safe harbour , and i hope that parliament sees it the same way .
the decision is unilateral and if the safe harbour system fails to accommodate the requirements stipulated by the united states then we might as well suspend or withdraw our decision unilaterally as well .
paragraph 7 of the draft resolution states that certain changes will have to be made before parliament is prepared to agree that the safe harbour system affords adequate protection .
the officials responsible for data protection in the european union have themselves said , in an opinion that is quoted extensively in your draft resolution , that , in principle , self-regulatory systems afford adequate protection .
participating firms will have to pay compensation in a whole host of circumstances , for example on account of their obligations pursuant to legislation in the united states .
the third change parliament wants to see concerns the right to have data cancelled when it has been obtained or processed illegally .
therefore , the commission does not see any need to retain these changes for us to be able to deem the level of protection afforded by the safe harbours adequate .
the united states has no desire to revisit the discussions again and the commission also takes the view that the talks are over .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m .
parliament has always been of the opinion that these states should be exempt from visa requirements .
obviously these countries have in the meantime also managed to convince the commission .
these member states should , it is argued , have the possibility of demanding visas from citizens from these same third countries .
we need standard rules on visas , and i think that the commission has tabled a good proposal .
mr president , i should first of all like to pay tribute to the rapporteur , who has put forward a very concise and well-presented report and one that we are happy to support .
i would like to draw attention to one or two points from it .
that is important because young people are enthusiastic about the european ideal and we do not want to put anything in their way that makes them think that europe is not welcoming and not moving in the right direction .
my last point concerns romania and bulgaria , particularly romania , a country i know well .
mr president , the introduction of a european visa policy is the occasion to debate an important issue , and here in this house we are today discussing the latest developments in this visa policy .
that architecture rests on two cornerstones , namely the creation of an area of freedom , security and justice in accordance with the new title iv inserted in the european community treaty , and the integration of the schengen acquis into the union framework , to which is added the dimension of variable geometry resulting from the different protocols annexed by several member states to the amsterdam treaty .
to clarify our position : amendments nos 3 and 4 can be accepted , as the changes they make to the wording avoid any contradiction with other provisions of the regulation .
amendments nos 7 and 8 are prompted by a wish to clarify the demarcation line between the scope of the regulation and other matters , some of which are governed by the schengen acquis , integrated into the community .
finally , the commission is also unable to accept amendment no 6 .
despite all the sympathy that can be felt towards the possibility of exempting young people taking part in european union youth programmes from visa requirements , the commission must stick to its aim of maximum harmonisation and avoid cases creating derogations from , or exceptions to , the visa requirement .
the commission is convinced that efforts to ensure that the need to obtain a visa does not constitute an obstacle to young people wishing to take part in european union programmes will have to be made in the rules on the conditions for the issue of visas which will be dealt with by a different instrument and which are not covered by this regulation .
parliament 's swiftness is appreciated by the commission , and it will help it , in the field of visas , to meet the deadlines set in the action plan adopted in vienna and reproduced in the scoreboard drawn up following the european council in tampere .
the debate is closed .
i can inform you that 25 scandinavian meps and interpreters took between 10 and 20 hours to arrive here in strasbourg .
what is more , i also had problems obtaining a seat at all on a flight to strasbourg .
it is quite unacceptable for meps to have to spend time which should be devoted to political work or to their electorate at home on wondering how they will manage to get to their place of work and also on working out where they are going to spend the night .
i hope your points are not just to do with problems of air travel to strasbourg , as we have a lot of work on this morning .
your comments will be passed on to the leaders of the political groups and we will have an opportunity , in a few moments ' time , to see if the message has been received .
turkey is a candidate country and should show more willing , through turkish cypriots , as regards the commitments which it entered into in helsinki .
mr president , i wish to raise the same issue and to condemn the provocative action by the occupying forces in cyprus .
mr president , i merely wished to inform you in this connection that turkish forces have proceeded 300 metres into the buffer zone alongside the british base in cyprus and that they did so with the blessing of the british .
mr president , i am taking the floor regarding the issue of cyprus and the situation there because i do not think that it should only be our greek colleagues who alert us to the problem which has now existed since 1974 .
it is unacceptable that a country seeking membership of the european union and with which negotiations to accord it pre-accession status have now been going on for 27 years can occupy an area covering 40 % of cyprus .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , on 6 july , this house will decide whether to grant discharge to the commission in respect of the general budget for the 1998 financial year .
these conditions corresponded in large measure to the demands contained in the report by the court of auditors , such as the commitment to ultimately arrive at a positive statement of assurance .
the court of auditors declined , for the fifth time in succession , to provide an assurance that the commission ' s handling of the finances for the 1998 financial year had been careful and economical .
the commission was criticised for being slow to produce documents and information , and likewise , there was criticism of the lack of transparency and independence as regards disciplinary procedures .
since the commission had at least fulfilled some of the conditions within the period stipulated , and the appointment of a new secretary-general of the commission had signalled a fresh start on the personnel front , i moved in my follow-up report that discharge be granted , or at least i recommended that the commission recover the funds from the flechard and echo cases , which are estimated to total approximately 17 million ecus , for the eu ' s coffers .
on 27 june 2000 , a majority of the committee on budgetary control rejected the call for the money to be recovered .
the commissioner for the budget informed us on 15 june that up until 1996 , a further three contracts were concluded with flechard .
we have always recognised that the current commission can only be held responsible to an extent for the mistakes of the past .
after all , the current commission only took up office in the summer of 1999 and we are examining the 1998 financial year .
i am now in a position to assess this action plan and have to say that after april of this year , this plan and cooperation with the commission stepped up the pace of the reforms already introduced within the commission .
indeed commissioners have since publicly acknowledged that there were major problems in this area .
for example , on 15 may of this year , commissioner nielson told the financial times that the commission machine was never constructed to deliver development assistance .
i would stress again that i believe our action plan is heading in the right direction in this very respect and that it will enable us - parliament and the commission that is - to jointly take more responsibility for this area and to ensure that there is better management .
accordingly , i would like to reinforce the point that in future , we in the committee on budgetary control expect to receive a six-monthly report from the commission - indeed we have already been promised one - and that this close cooperation will enable us to simplify matters for the 1999 financial year and , i feel it is safe to say , for the 2000 financial year , and we will no longer be forced to use deferral as a means of bringing pressure to bear .
i therefore also believe that in future , the committee on budgetary control is going to have to concentrate much harder on the essential guidelines and not get so bogged down in the detail .
an electronic inventory system is in its early stages and we intend to enquire how this inventory system is working in practice in the course of future discharge procedures .
here too we have yet to see how this new procedure will work out in practice .
i am therefore in favour , as i was in april , of granting discharge .
a broad majority of the committee on budgetary control has signed up to this .
in recital 33 of the april motion on parliament ' s grant of discharge , the discharge was linked with the court of auditor ' s report on the finances of the groups , although everyone knows that only the groups themselves are responsible for their financial affairs .
although one can understand the attitude of the court of auditors , which only cooperates with parliament as an institution and has therefore failed to cite the names of individual groups associated with specific shortcomings , i still feel that we should discuss this with the court of auditors so as to agree a different arrangement for the future .
on 13 april , parliament decided by a majority to postpone the discharge and ask the commission to supply further reports and information .
naturally the commission abided by parliament ' s wishes and on 11 may it submitted the following documents , among others : the financial controller ' s report on the corrections made to ex-ante controls , a report on the conclusions drawn from the investigative committee into customs procedures , a report and overview in connection with the contracts of scientific visitors , a report on the number of disciplinary proceedings associated with financial irregularities undertaken since 1998 and the outcome thereof .
the commission , and particularly myself as commissioner for the budget , are completely in agreement with the court of auditors and parliament on this .
firstly we need error prevention measures , such as - to quote but one example - a measure to reduce the number of invitation to tender and award procedures for external aid - be it the phare , meda or other programmes - from the 80 different procedures we have had up until now ( would you believe ? ) to 40 .
i would remind you again that my colleague mr kinnock is to submit a draft on the reform of disciplinary proceedings before the summer recess .
this concerns the future and the past .
the commission set out to ensure that the report and the response from the commission , which also details the sequence of events , would not be kept secret or confidential but would be officially available , and indeed they can now be called up on the internet .
the commission must uphold the principles and rules of legality in the current fight against fraud and in the efforts being made to shed light on cases from previous years .
i would remind you that the principles to do with passing on information also feature in the agreement between parliament and the commission on the transfer of information .
this agreement should provide a clear basis for this important aspect of relations between parliament and the commission , and consequently , it should also form a sound basis for the procedures pertaining to the discharge process .
i would like to thank the members of the committee on budgetary control , who have contributed enormously , not only to the report , but also to the results , the assessments , the observations , and , above all , to the many proposals for improvement and the challenges we have faced .
he announced that collaboration with parliament would be a fresh collaboration .
on the other hand , it is also obvious that we are continuing to demand that the present commissioners show the utmost transparency with regard to parliament .
finally , i should also like to say that , in the context of this commission , we feel that parliament will have to take firm control of olaf because this is in fact one of the key means that we are going to be able to develop for the future .
whatever the case , mr president , i think that the salient conclusion that should be drawn from our work - and this view is shared by a good number of fellow members of all political complexions - is that henceforth , firstly , we shall do our utmost to monitor what is going on and , secondly , we shall insist , as a basic requirement , that the commission should be open with us .
mr president , i should like to make one observation on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation and one on behalf of the socialist group as a whole .
we in europe want to play a key role in establishing this with the necessary resources .
but this means that we need to actually make this change within the next couple of months .
and this is , at the end of the day , what the european citizen judges you as commission and us as parliament on .
i wish the commission every success in advance .
rather than stick with the hysterical , drum-beating report that the rapporteur produced , which , if truth be told , had little originality , no sense of direction and no suggestion on how to move ahead constructively , the committee decided back in march to postpone the discharge and to set out seventeen clear conditions which we expected the commission to sign up to in the space of a couple of months .
for example , the promise to cut the number of errors is a major promise but it will not happen unless we have the commitment and the resources to go with it .
will you make a commitment though to cooperate fully with our internal inquiry committee and give us the information we request ?
i think mr pomes ruiz is perhaps just a few seconds late .
my political group , like all of them , is going to comply with the regulations and provide information when it is appropriate to do so .
however , when free to do so , each group has managed its finances in the way they considered appropriate .
logically , at the beginning it needs more time , but we hope that other decisions will be taken much more quickly .
we also hope that the interinstitutional agreement which we have finally reached will improve our relations , so that we can provide each other with mutual support and build europe more quickly .
to end , i would like to say that we agree with the discharge of the accounts which the three reports refer to .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in my opinion , the 1998 discharge was a fascinating exercise in terms of both the budget of parliament and that of the commission .
against the committee on budgetary control ' s judgement , we rejected the european parliament ' s discharge , and we formulated five requests for the secretary-general of this parliament .
our group agrees with the conclusion that discharge may on this occasion be granted .
it is just as much about designing one ' s administrative and production machinery in such a way that the objectives laid down in the budget can be achieved .
mrs schreyer can always come here sure in the knowledge that parliament ' s committee on budgetary control will not hurt a hair of her head .
where parliament ' s 1998 accounts are concerned , i would note that the problem is the same as in other areas of the union , namely an all too careless attitude to the way in which the money is used .
we have taken the discharge procedure most seriously and i should also like to thank the administration and the secretary-general for their collaboration in this exercise .
i think it was a good approach to clarify matters , look into them more carefully and solve some outstanding problems with a properly argued report enabling parliament to have all the facts in order to grant discharge to the administration and the president of the european parliament .
more than 60 % of the report voted upon consisted of amendments .
mr president , it is extremely rare for a report to be quite so turned around after the vote in committee .
this parliament has no clear majority or minority .
we have to rely to a certain extent on parliamentary fair play .
if a clear majority emerges , then this majority feeling should be expressed in all the aspects of a report , without resorting to playing on words or abusing procedures .
we shall support this report which the rapporteur is clearly against .
rest assured , mr president , that the tdi group will vote in favour of discharge , at least the radical wing of the group which i represent here .
indeed , as a rule we do not know everyone involved in day-to-day legislation and in the administration of the now 800 billion being used .
mr president , the european institutions must be aware that they have a responsibility and also an obligation to guarantee the european citizen an efficient and economical administration .
unfortunately though , the opposite still holds true , as borne out by cases such as flechard and the echo administration .
nor should we be surprised if european citizens continue to lose confidence in these administrative systems .
consequently , we independents have no intention whatsoever of granting discharge to the report on the general budget .
mr president , this brings us to the conclusion of a momentous two years for the european union , which began with the 1996 discharge and its refusal .
we need , in this debate , to associate the 1998 discharge with that of the framework agreement which we will be voting on tomorrow .
the council , by its absence today , shows its lack of interest in the way in which we , as a parliament , have used our powers to begin the birth of a political europe .
indeed , one or two of her amendments , like removing paragraphs 47 and 48 of the discharge report today show that some of these amendments look more commission-born than in parliament 's interests .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i would like to repudiate what mr poettering said about mr kuhne .
it is in the nature of budgetary control that there always has to be somebody who feels their toes have been trodden on .
it is hardly surprising that two members of the conference of presidents should have a problem with the control and authority exercised by the committee on budgetary control .
parliament postponed the discharge for the 1998 financial year in april , but with no intention whatsoever of provoking a trial of strength with the commission or even working towards a refusal of discharge .
we agreed , on the basis of my report in january , that they were to be submitted by 30 june .
it is 4 july today .
our granting discharge for 1998 is , in reality , a vote of confidence .
mr president , let me first say a few words regarding the quality of the work of our rapporteur mrs stauner .
let me also say a few words regarding the speeches made by the socialist members .
the job of the committee on budgetary control is not to hang the commission out to dry for the duration of a parliament , but to ensure that europe 's citizens are served by an executive that implements its political priorities efficiently and effectively .
i also want , and feel compelled , to express my admiration of our rapporteur , gabriele stauner .
i would therefore like to thank all our opposite numbers , be they from the commission , the court of auditors or the european parliament .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen of the house , ladies and gentlemen of the commission , the statements made by some of my fellow members have already contributed significantly towards expressing the discontent aroused by the report on discharge .
this is the reason why the text on which we are to vote during this part-session is substantially different from the initial draft .
we cannot fail to note the same petty political excesses that some of us already condemned in the initial report on discharge for the year 1998 .
our objective must be to work in close collaboration with the commission in the interest of our fellow citizens and of the implementation of our policies , and to make the discharge report a proper assessment of the implementation of the european union budget in both quantitative and qualitative terms .
i only joined the committee on budgetary control a couple of months ago , and to me the meetings and the reports of the last two months have raised probably more questions than they have answered .
sometimes we seem to forget that we are dealing with the discharge in respect of 1998 .
i have carefully read the court of auditors ' report on the accounts for that year , particularly in relation to agriculture and the structural funds .
i have come to the conclusion , having had a lot of experience in parliament and with european affairs , that things have been steadily improving and that 1998 was one of the best performances we had .
the difficulties which occurred - a 4 % possible error in the area of agriculture and a little more in the area of structural funds - did not result from the failure of the european commission to dispense those funds in an efficient way , but from a failure - and it was a small failure - to control the member states and the european governments and to ensure that the member states and their administrations had done the job in the way it should have been done .
that is my first point .
i do not think it is reasonable to inform the people of europe that there was a loss of eur 14 million to the european budget arising out of this case .
the worst thing you can say about that settlement is that it was made on a legal basis which was not in effect when the crime was committed , but was in effect while the case was still open .
it seems to me that equating that with a loss of eur 14 million is a gross exaggeration .
statement by presidency-in-office of council - action programme of french presidency the next item is the statement by the presidency-in-office of council on the french presidency ' s action programme .
it is my very great pleasure to give the floor to the french president , mr jacques chirac . ( loud applause ) madam president , ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament , thank you for welcoming me here today .
since 1 july , france has held the presidency of the council of the european union , and i shall be chairing the meetings of the european council on two occasions .
last winter , when i was invited to participate in the inauguration of this new chamber , i made a commitment to involving parliament fully in the work of our presidency .
i think it natural and necessary to conduct discussions and debates within the european union in close collaboration with the men and women that represent the citizens , the men and women elected by the people of europe , who have the task of representing their opinions in the debate on the future of europe .
the citizens of europe want more transparency in the operation of the european institutions .
nowadays , discussions within the european union must take place in the light of day and , of course , here in the european parliament .
having come into office in quite exceptional circumstances , they have managed to lay the foundations for a radical reform which will bear fruit in the future .
he devoted his life to france , of course , and europe , a bold and noble idea of europe .
this house acknowledged his commitment by electing him its president .
the fine and necessary project of enlargement is going to change the european union , its modus operandi and , perhaps , even its very nature , at a time when it is intensifying its political dimension .
my comments were intended to shed light on the future and to express what the europe of tomorrow could and should be .
the french authorities are fully aware of the responsibility they bear in this respect and they are approaching this presidency with the ambition to achieve progress or a successful conclusion in all the matters impacting on future development .
they shall do so with a commitment to safeguard , and improve , that which gives our whole project meaning : the protection of fundamental values and the respect of national and cultural identities , the continual determination to reconcile economic performance and social progress and to fulfil the practical expectations of the citizens , and the strengthening of europe ' s role as a major player on the international scene .
the french presidency is also determined to make progress on the matter of intensified cooperation , which was added to the igc agenda at the feira european council .
the european council in biarritz , two months before the nice council , will be an informal summit , chiefly devoted to institutional reform .
it will be an achievement for peace and democracy in our continent , and it will make the european union all the stronger .
the french presidency is , therefore , determined to achieve real progress in the accession negotiations with all the candidate countries , based on their individual merits and implementing the principle of differentiation .
bilateral dialogue with the candidate countries will , moreover , be stepped up , and dialogue will also be emphasised in the european conference of heads of state and government which i shall be convening in nice prior to the european council .
the second focus of the french presidency is a europe at the service of growth , employment and social progress .
we can already see the positive effects in all the countries of the european union .
coordinating our monetary policies , however , must necessarily be accompanied by serious social ambitions and improved coordination of our economic policies .
the french presidency will be following up the action initiated by this lisbon council .
as you know , i attach great importance to affirming the european social model as based on social dialogue , on social protection appropriate to the requirements of our time and on acknowledgement of the role of the state as the guarantor of social cohesion .
the charter of fundamental rights will have to support this model .
our priority , then , will be the adoption of a " european social agenda " .
economic growth and industrial modernisation are meaningful only if they represent a rapid fall in the rate of unemployment which , despite the positive results recorded throughout europe in recent years , is still far higher than in the united states or japan .
europe at the service of the nations also means the determination to make great efforts to achieve social justice , improve the protection of children and boost commitment to combating exclusion in all its forms , particularly in the face of the new challenges of the knowledge-based economy .
the social agenda will make it possible , on the basis of the communication which the commission has just submitted , to outline a five-year working programme involving all the operators concerned : member states , the european parliament , the commission , unions and management .
this is necessary in order to consolidate the euro and to make sure that the current growth in europe lasts .
the french presidency is today proposing to improve the operation of the 11 euro states , shortly to become 12 , by making its work more visible and more authoritative , to enhance the coordination of our budget policies by making the community inspection procedures more effective , to make progress in the harmonisation of our tax policies in the wake of the european council at feira and , finally , to take action to prepare our citizens for the forthcoming advent of the euro .
everything possible must be done to make a success of this crucial phase in both practical and human terms .
finally , we must put europe at the forefront of the information society , build up growth in the european union on the basis of our training schemes - some of the best in the world - our tremendous scientific and intellectual potential and our industry , which is a world leader .
we must also ensure that the benefits of these new technologies are accessible to all , avoiding the creation of a digital divide , and , in particular , supporting internet connections for all european schools by the end of 2001 , as decided .
europe still seems far too remote in the eyes of many of our fellow countrymen , who find it hard to see what europe gives them or can give them in their everyday life .
it is crucial that the convention responsible for framing the text completes its work in sufficiently good time in order to be able to deliver the charter by the end of this year .
i know that i shall be able to count on the support of this house in this undertaking .
the french presidency will be particularly attentive to the wto in the context of enlargement negotiations and in considering the problems encountered by specific industries , such as pig farming and the fruit and vegetable and banana industries .
the french authorities are firmly resolved to make tangible progress in the coming months , on the basis of existing and forthcoming proposals from the commission and from the authorities themselves to prevent our coastlines suffering a recurrence of this tragedy .
we all have the dover tragedy in mind .
in accordance with the conclusions of the feira european council , the presidency will draw up specific measures regarding sanctions against parties responsible for trafficking .
finally , we are resolved to make progress in achieving a european area of justice based on the mutual recognition of legal rulings and judgements .
permit me , in concluding this chapter on the europe of the citizens , to say a word or two about sport .
now that the euro 2000 football championship , which gave europeans so much pleasure and so many thrills , is over , ( applause ) we must ensure that the european union takes the specific nature of sport and its social role into more careful consideration .
the french presidency will make every effort to do so . ( applause ) the fourth and final focus of our presidency : a europe with a strong international role .
in terms of the common foreign and security policy , the french presidency will make a point of affirming the european identity , with the support of the high representative and the commission .
one of its priorities will be to consolidate the europe of defence and security which has experienced spectacular progress in recent months .
we would also like to see the interim bodies in place in brussels since 1 march fulfilling their given role in the transition to the final phase .
finally , the arms industries must confirm the ambitious european defence policies by their harmonisation and their cooperation programmes .
the results of recent months have been very positive in this respect , in terms of helicopters , missiles and the future transport aircraft .
in all these areas , the french presidency will spare no effort to ensure that europe provides itself with ample resources for its foreign policy , in a spirit of friendship and cooperation , of course , with its allies .
the european union must provide the countries in this region with a clear european perspective in order to persuade them to undertake reform and to cooperate at regional level .
this will offer an opportunity to give new impetus to the barcelona process by means of adopting a peace and stability charter and by strengthening economic and cultural links between the two shores of the sea we share .
here too the french presidency wishes to develop fully the relations it considers essential in order to construct the balanced multipolar world of the future .
the french presidency is also keen to ensure that the new convention between the european union and the african , caribbean and pacific countries is implemented efficiently .
europe must be strong and open to the world .
tomorrow , the number of member states will have more than doubled and we must find procedures to enable decisions to be taken and europe to make progress while strengthening its efficiency and legitimacy .
by working hand in hand , with mutual trust , on each of these matters , together we shall succeed in taking europe through the phases that are essential for the future .
we shall have consolidated the edifice by making it more welcoming both for those that already reside in it and those that wish to enter . ( applause ) madam president of the european parliament , mr president of the french republic , ladies and gentlemen , it is a great pleasure to stand here before you at the start of this new presidency .
progress has also been made towards an extraordinary enlargement of the union - enlargement which you have described , mr chirac , as a ' fine and necessary project ' - and towards strengthening its institutions in preparation for enlargement .
firstly , i would like to say that i support one hundred percent your commitment to developing europe ' s social agenda .
the presidency will , in particular , have to tackle a whole range of major issues in relation to which the commission has already tabled proposals .
the commission therefore supports the presidency in focusing on these issues .
at lisbon , the european council committed the member states to making great efforts to eradicate poverty , and a high level group on social protection is working with the commission on this ambitious strategy .
at the nice council we should be aiming to achieve a consensus of positions on social exclusion , and the commission has already put forward proposals on the matter .
once we have put forward our proposal , i look forward to seeing the plans for the authority move swiftly ahead under the french presidency .
the impact of our transport and energy policies on the environment , and , in particular , climate change , will be a key theme in two documents the commission intends to submit to parliament and the council this autumn .
the first is a green paper on the common transport policy and the second is a strategic document on different energy sources and the security of energy supply .
one of the major challenges facing the european union is the need to stabilise our continent , and promoting stability in the regions on our borders must clearly be a central part of that strategy .
we therefore fully support your proposal to organise a political summit between the european union and the most democratically advanced balkan countries .
the commission has already started to lay the foundations for this balkan summit and we look forward to working closely with the french presidency in order to make more detailed preparations .
since the treaty of amsterdam came into force , our legislative system has been working ever more efficiently under the new codecision procedure .
this means that the legislative process is maturing and becoming more and more consensual .
it will give even more democratic legitimacy to the european legislative process , and this is vital to the political health of the union .
madam president , mr president of the european council , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , the group of the european people ' s party and european democrats greatly appreciates the fact that you , president chirac , have spoken here today , at the start of the french presidency .
we wish you every success for the presidency .
the debates on europe ' s future , as well as those on the intergovernmental conference , go together .
i am grateful to you for bringing pierre pflimlin and robert schuman to mind .
we also want the european commission to be the european executive .
in your berlin speech , you spoke of the great project of a constitution .
which is why we are far from receptive to the idea of creating a succession of new secretariats , for this is something the european union must do , through its strong institutions and on the basis of european law . ( applause ) mr president , the most important thing of course , is for majority voting in the council of ministers to become the fundamental method of decision making .
majority voting must become the fundamental method of decision making in the council of ministers .
that is an antiquated way of looking at things and we will oppose any ideas of that ilk in no uncertain terms ! ( applause ) it is the task of the national parliaments to make a better job of supervising the activities of their own governments as members of the council of ministers , and i believe the european parliament and national parliaments should join forces to this end .
if you are successful then it will be to the advantage of us all . ( applause ) madam president , president of the council , president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen of the house , first of all , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , i should like to welcome in the french presidency .
by a fortunate coincidence , at this crucial point in our history one of the founding countries , the homeland of jean monnet , robert schuman and pierre pflimlin , is presiding over the fate of the european union .
in the first place , we share the french presidency ' s opinion that institutional reform is a basic prerequisite for the further development of the european union , especially for these fine plans for enlargement and the commitment we have undertaken .
this , however , is precisely why we need to be able to include the charter of fundamental rights in the treaty , ( loud applause ) because we must effectively establish our community of values and , in this respect , i should like to pay tribute to the french presidency ' s determination because it must not be forgotten that you have defended these principles in your own country and in europe , and we consider that if we wish to solve the problems we face at the moment looking to the future - and i am thinking of the case of austria - it is essential that we are able to include both this affirmation of a community of values as well as methods of defending these principles in the treaty .
one of these is the future of public services , of universal european services , ( applause ) and the other is the bearing they have on economic and social cohesion , in order to prevent an increase in the economic and social divide which may already exist .
we think this must be included in the package .
a europe closer to the citizens is precisely what we were asking of the commission before voting on its appointment .
there is also one sensitive subject in this area , and that is sport , which you gave as one of your priorities .
my group attaches very great importance , as you have done today , to a charter of fundamental rights as part of the package that we contemplate in nice .
like you , mr president , we believe that europe should be based on the values of freedom , dignity , tolerance , democracy and rights .
we value the access which our citizens have to democratic checks and balances - through this house and elsewhere - in the formulation of european legislation .
my group believes that a strong europe needs european institutions with a key role for the european commission .
helsinki set two tests : firstly we must reform ourselves in nice ; secondly the candidate states must take on board the acquis communautaire .
we should not add a third lock on the door by saying we must have a constitution before they join .
i believe that france , once again , has the opportunity to champion the cause of europe .
madam president , mr president , your country has taken the leadership in european football and is now required to take leadership of the european union at a key moment in its history .
i think we shall be facing such times in the next six months .
your berlin speech where you argued in favour of implementing a process to develop a european constitution is , like several of the suggestions you have made today , a positive sign for the future .
i should like , for my part , to raise three issues on which your presidency ought to be focussing , in my opinion .
this reform must be ambitious .
to put it plainly , the three points left over from amsterdam in no way represent an adequate agenda .
you declared , mr president , that we must reassert the values uniting us and defend the spirit of the founders of the european union , whose goals were peace and stability in europe .
we have , admittedly , achieved peace and stability within the european union , but let us not close our eyes to the facts .
the globalisation of issues has gained the upper hand in the course of recent years .
in the face of uncontrollable events , the implications for the future are disconcerting , and the hague summit should represent a change in this respect .
i heard you say that you were in favour of this , under france ' s leadership .
our pattern of development is in question .
your country , mr president , is one of the most critical european countries in this respect .
by achieving this , the european union would gain credit not only within the european union but also throughout the world . ( applause ) madam president , mr president , the french presidency of the european union is starting at a time when the debate on the meaning and future of the construction of europe is continually increasing in scale .
i do not think that i am exaggerating when i speak of a crisis of confidence that exists between many european citizens and the european institutions , or at the very least a malaise and a search for a new european identity .
in this respect , the slogans coming out of the mass rallies such as those held in seattle , washington , geneva and millau : " the world is not for sale " , " politicians are powerless in the face of globalisation " , " let the people decide " are the overt expression of much more widespread concerns and expectations which are of direct concern to the europe that we are building .
in order to have a hope of starting to meet these expectations , the french presidency should , in the opinion of my group , endeavour to issue positive messages in three directions , which are , incidentally , closely related .
political will is going to prove necessary in order to reach an agreement among fifteen member states against social or fiscal dumping or in order to curb the unbridled trend to liberalise public services .
action must be taken at each of these levels , in my opinion , and many others too , in order to promote a model of development in solidarity and a social europe .
more generally , the reports issued , one after another , by international organisations on the state of the world are sounding the alarm : the unacceptable tragedy of aids in africa , the disastrous review of the results in geneva of the application of the commitments made five years ago in copenhagen in order to reduce poverty , the continued stranglehold of debt and , at one and the same time , the boom in the financial world which is quite removed from the real economy and people ' s real lives .
in all these areas , people are waiting for europe to take action and , to conclude , it is on this last point that i would like , if you would permit me , to address you directly , mr president .
unfortunately , there will be two parties that appear to have problems in agreeing on the menu to be served in nice .
it is not a matter of settling a few minor details but of selecting a new decision-making process within a set of institutions that governs 80 % of the lives of europeans and which , whether we like it or not , as already quasi-federal in nature .
the brussels commission , from the very outset , and the council of ministers , since the treaty of amsterdam withdrew this initiative are federal institutions , as parliament is , and as indeed are the european central bank and the court of justice .
so if the proposals outlined by the french presidency , particularly making qualified majority voting the general rule , are confirmed in nice , then we should once and for all have enabled this federal europe to operate in isolation , protected from all the national democracies that simply gather for the quarterly photograph of the european council .
adopting a european constitution would ipso facto render all the national constitutions null and void , reduced to the level of a mere member state by-law . ( mixed reactions ) the truth , madam president , mr president-in-office of the european union , is that this europe is and shall continue to be forced to forge ahead regardless as long as it persists in thinking of itself as essentially superior to the nations which form it and , hence , destined to replace them sooner or later .
this is where chocolate is abolished but gmos are legalised .
this is where ... ( the president cut the speaker off since speaking time had expired ) mr president , there was a time , when you yourself , mr chirac , took sides against the foreigner .
you recommended saying ' yes ' to maastricht because the 1995 presidential elections were drawing close .
by instigating a simplification of the closer cooperation procedures , you have offered our european partners a two- rather than a three-way directorate .
belittling france by allowing important decisions to be taken without france ' s agreement , when , through this closer cooperation , european treaties may , if necessary , be amended to the detriment of france ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) madam president , mr president , france is assuming the presidency of the european union for the next six months .
this name in itself represents our programme , whose prime objective is to ensure that the identities and aspirations of each country are taken into optimum consideration , in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity .
following the crisis of the santer commission - which rocked the institutions - why the devil did they bury the expert committee ' s report exposing the serious mismanagement within the institutions ?
we reject government by officials as much as we reject government by judges .
consequently , the igc must not be the instrument of a reform which will turn the europe of tomorrow into a technocratic monster , ever more ignorant of the peoples ' legitimate concerns and of the opinion of the national parliaments that represent them .
we cannot agree to this reform granting some states the right and the power to force binding texts on states which are unwilling .
the institutional reform we are promised is putting a stranglehold on our nations , especially the smallest ones .
whereas the construction of europe ought to be seeking to achieve coordination between the policies of member states , the objective of integration is leading us towards an intolerable process of uniformisation .
in addition , there is the entire debate on balanced regional development and respect for the users of territories , and also the future of public services and state monopolies .
in conclusion , mr president , we hope that you will have the determination to restore the right of expression to the elected representatives and the various peoples of europe in order to prevent a new rural and territorial divide .
i am pleased to learn of the intentions which he announced on behalf of the commission , which are generally in line with those of the french presidency .
this is , as you know , one of the objectives of our presidency , along with the extension of qualified majority voting .
mr chairman , the presidency can already answer your question regarding greater transparency on the part of the council .
this is one step in the direction you suggested , and i hope that it will serve to improve relations between our two great institutions and also , of course , to clarify the development of the subjects under discussion .
we also share your concern to have strong institutions , as you emphasised .
i said as much yesterday in paris , at the meeting with the commission .
let me add , to respond to a concern you expressed , that i endorse completely the idea you put forward to the effect that we need a single institutional framework and , above all , no parallel frameworks .
everything that can give new impetus to the construction of europe must be achieved both within the institutions and in accordance with the acquis communautaire .
regarding the european social model , one of the main objectives of the french presidency is to arrive at an agreement on the social agenda in nice .
we shall do everything in our power to achieve this objective .
for a long time i have represented an extremely poor , rural constituency in france , and i can tell you that i consider , and have always considered , that it had just the same entitlement - and indeed the same duties to contribute in the form of taxation - with regard to the main public services , the lifeblood of the nation , as any district in paris .
we shall therefore take great care to ensure that the necessary modernisation of public services is not confused with making them profitable , which would be a serious mistake . ( applause ) mr baron crespo mentioned many other things , particularly closer cooperation , development of the social model and enlargement .
we should like to see the convention , in which parliament is to a great extent involved , issue its conclusions very quickly , before biarritz , if possible , so that we can discuss them there .
we should await their conclusions on this subject .
closer cooperation is in no way intended to create a europe divided between those in the vanguard and those lagging behind , but simply to give the necessary impetus to the proper operation of europe and thus to enable those that wish to go slightly faster in certain areas to do so , which will necessarily result in others being carried along in its wake .
mr cox , you need have no fear on the subject of enlargement , which other speakers also mentioned , and which president prodi discussed in a particularly firm manner .
it is a shared political determination to be capable of applying the same rules throughout the europe of tomorrow .
we shall carry out our work in this field as quickly and as well as possible , with a view , i would stress , as president prodi said just now , to enlarging as quickly as possible .
we can discuss europe ' s frontiers afterwards - that is another matter - but peace and democracy must apply to the whole of europe .
he also mentioned the state of the world today in terms which , i must admit , moved me and which i endorse .
it is true that we live in a world where the gap between rich and poor is increasing .
the undp report for 1999 , by which i mean not the report tabled this year but last year , gave an example which , although not significant , is still striking , saying that the three largest private fortunes in the world today are equivalent to the sum of the gross national products of all the least developed countries , representing 600 million people .
i am not , of course , going to enter into such a debate right now , even though europe cannot remain apart from these debates , and so the presidency , like the commission and parliament , must necessarily get involved .
it also has dangers , however , in three areas in particular .
this is true in terms of the citizens within a single country and today we can observe an increase in exclusion despite strong growth and declining unemployment .
the subject is to be discussed , moreover , in the near future in g7 and g8 , but it is a subject of concern to everyone , especially europe .
it is not obvious , but it is a real problem , which must be taken seriously . ( applause ) the typical example mentioned by a number of speakers was the hague conference to be held in autumn on greenhouse gas emissions .
the final disadvantage , the final risk of globalisation , involves everything related to large-scale crime .
i of course share his feeling that europe must be first and foremost a europe of the citizens .
we do not do this enough , that is true , even though , in my opinion , a great deal of progress has been made in this area .
it is true that our cultural diversity is a source of wealth , and that the principle of subsidiarity is an absolute necessity .
i am thinking , for example , of the german lander , but there are , of course , many other examples that could be cited .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i am delighted to have had the opportunity to make a few comments on the very interesting contributions made by the representatives of this house , and i thank you for the welcome you have given me here today . ( loud applause ) i should like to thank the president , mr jacques chirac , for the very full answers he has given the group chairmen in this house .
we shall carry on with our debate .
in his speech last week in the reichstag in berlin , which was universally recognised as historic , the president-in-office of the council opened up new perspectives for the french presidency , and also , i hope , for the presidencies which are to follow .
our fellow citizens await a europe which at last has the determination to review its modus operandi and to strive to achieve greater clarity , greater transparency and greater efficiency .
the reforms of the commission and the council must respond to these requirements .
we must keep in mind that , even if it is not an easy task , france and its partners are under an obligation to achieve results .
far from clouding the issue , today ' s debate has offered some clarification as to the direction of the action to be undertaken in the months and years to come , which i shall sum up as follows : bringing europe closer to the citizens , all the citizens without exception , be they close to the decision-making centres or remote , economic modernisation and a social europe , efficiency and a strong presence in the world .
i have every confidence in jacques chirac , president-in-office of the council , and in his ability , along with our partners within the european union , to meet these historic challenges .
mr president , i have a point of order under rule 120 of the rules of procedure , which moreover is expressly quoted on page 25 of today ' s agenda .
according to the schedule , the council was to have 30 minutes ' speaking time .
mr president , minister , ladies and gentlemen , we all agree on setting the course we are heading for beyond the french presidency , but this forces us to mention the questions that will be raised , regardless of whether the intergovernmental conference is successful .
i believe that the projects undertaken by lionel jospin ' s government , in france and in europe , give the president-in-office of the council every opportunity to fulfil this objective .
we must also make a success of this agenda , and this means , first and foremost , making a success of the intergovernmental conference .
we are pleased to see that this has been possible .
then , i should like to tell the french presidency that it can count on parliament ' s support to prefer rather that we have no nice agreement than a mediocre treaty .
we are thinking , obviously , of the reform underway within the commission , but also and perhaps more importantly , within the council .
as regards the social agenda , once again we are pleased to see that the prospect of full employment is henceforth seen as embracing the whole of the european union .
we are delighted , moreover , to see the commitment of lionel jospin ' s government to bring a number of essential directives to a successful conclusion .
at the european council in biarritz , the convention members will be ready to propose a comprehensive text which is to include economic and social rights .
in the field of reciprocal recognition of legal rulings , we are continually faced with situations where the divergent nature of our judicial structures involve our fellow citizens in serious personal deadlocks .
mr president , one final word to express how important we think it is that the french presidency should also transform the acquis of the treaty of amsterdam on the subject of services of general interest .
such services are also part of the modern world , for example internet access for all .
i was , however , hoping for a clearer commitment regarding the fundamental rights included in the union ' s agenda , for two reasons .
in the first place , these rights must be enshrined in the forthcoming charter of fundamental rights .
in his speech , however , the president did not cite the examination of this charter as one of the main points of the european council in biarritz .
in the second place , since amsterdam , fundamental rights have formed the foundations of our union and should represent the constant reference for any member state action .
the president was the first to refer to the terms of article 6 of the treaty in connection with the haider case .
the measures the french presidency has already announced in the areas of justice and home affairs appear to live up to this challenge .
mr president , minister , let me share a few comments with you in the intimate surroundings of the end of the day 's sitting .
and then i must say that , as paul lannoye said , i am saddened when i hear people discussing foreign policy and sparing no expense on arms and defence without even mentioning conflict prevention .
the demonstrations in seattle , geneva and millau , however , show that another sort of europe , another sort of globalisation , is possible .
for the people , these requirements are the priorities in the debate , which is certainly needed , on the weighting of votes or the right of veto .
mr president , minister , i am speaking on behalf of the italian radicals in the tdi group who , as everyone knows , are european federalists .
i shall use my speaking time , however , to remind you that this parliament asked the igc to grant parliament the right finally to decide on its own location .
this is a fundamental right , and three hundred members of this house , moreover , made it very clear that they are unhappy about being forced to come to strasbourg twelve times a year .
i hope that the french presidency will take due account of this issue , which we consider to be extremely important .
i should like to discuss the three factors which i think are at the root of the crisis in europe today .
i shall sum this up in one sentence : work on the constitution and therefore on europe ' s prospects must be clearly launched during the french presidency .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the french president has introduced the french presidency ' s substantial programme to us today and it would be impossible for me to cover even a fraction of the points in four minutes .
my second point concerns reinforced cooperation in the construction of a european union of security and defence .
i wholeheartedly agree with you when you say that the european union must have all the means and instruments at its disposal that it needs to pursue a truly common foreign and security policy worthy of the name , which also means strengthening our military capability and establishing the political and military structures we need for a common foreign and security policy .
the new weighting of votes in the council is also important for striking a new balance between large and small , north and south and rich and poor within the union , but that is not crucial either .
mr president , mr president , the french presidency ' s programme is interesting and in no way devoid of substance .
i am not convinced that this is the direction we are currently taking , in spite of all the fine words that have been spoken here this morning .
mr president , the historical issue concerning the french presidency , for i do feel that it is a historical issue , is first and foremost to open up the way for the construction of a europe for all europeans .
since then we have dawdled and dragged our feet over the reform of these institutions .
today , the french presidency has an obligation to achieve results .
a review of decision-making mechanisms in order to prevent paralysis and a review of the functioning of the council and the commission are all on the agenda and i think that the projects for tomorrow and beyond must not conceal what is required today .
the success of the igc now will actually be the best basis on which to build the huge project for the greater europe of tomorrow .
in our opinion , there is a clear dividing line between those who want enlargement to bring less political integration and those who consider that greater political integration and clearly defined timeframes will be necessary .
we believe in increased synergy between the european parliament and national parliaments , but we are against commingling which undermines the fundamental consideration that the european parliament is the parliamentary organ of supranationality elected by direct universal suffrage .
i would like to make one last point regarding the european union ' s role in the international institutions .
the positive results we hope for from the intergovernmental conference should allow us to proceed to the necessary reform of the institutions in preparation for enlargement .
in this context , the council , the commission and the european parliament will each have to play an equally important and equally influential role , but these roles must include active cooperation .
it will have the sure political and parliamentary support of the forza italia delegation in the ppe-de group , for the italy of today and of tomorrow will certainly be a protagonist in the construction of that europe in which we all believe so strongly .
mr president , what a change we have seen from mr chirac ' s speech of a few years ago !
i feel that i must congratulate the socialist government on having convinced the french president so thoroughly .
that is precisely the problem with several words that are used in the current debate .
this is a decentralised federation in which the member states play an extremely important role in decision-making and remain in control of the treaties .
the treaties , after all , define the union ' s sphere of competences , the powers of its institutions and the procedures for adopting legislation or the budget .
the european university institute in florence has submitted a fine project for our consideration , which makes our treaties considerably shorter , more readable and easier to use , without even altering their content .
we must also look at the changes we need to make to our constitution .
on this subject , we must above all do what president chirac suggested , which is to ensure that , in a union of almost 30 members , there is no risk of action being blocked .
what is a fact , however , is that certain areas , or certain states , sometimes create delays , which are sometimes temporary .
there is therefore no need to create a hard core and we should instead create a situation in which our constitution prevents action being blocked .
these are the two crucial points for the igc .
concentrate on these and above all , do so before enlargement .
mr president , i congratulate the french presidency of the european union on its ambitious approach in all areas and for its intention not to end the intergovernmental conference with a minimal agreement , but with results which make enlargement a real possibility .
due to time restrictions , i will only refer to three points .
in other words , we want closer integration which is open to all current and future members of the union .
my third point , mr president , is that i am also one of those who believes that we need a constitution for the union .
this does not change anything , but it does mean something very important : that the citizens may finally become aware of which system is governing them .
it would be far better to convert the european council of ministers to a kind of federal council .
surely this is the most natural way to provide europe with a bicameral system consisting of a parliament and senate .
it would be ideal if the decision was taken in nice to devise a project of this kind in two to three years ' time .
mr president , minister , the french presidency has committed itself to a courageous , ambitious , brilliant agenda , considering some of the difficulties we are experiencing at this time .
the important aspect of president chirac ' s speech was , we felt , our common values and intentions .
this is the only way we can move forward in the intense debate on the future of the european union and reconcile the economic development of europe with the strengthening of the european social model and with the fight against social exclusion and modern forms of poverty , in order to bring europe closer to the citizens , step up negotiations on enlargement and increasingly consolidate the european union ' s role in the world .
first of all , i wish to say how delighted i am to be here with you and to be speaking on behalf of the french government , since i was a member of the european parliament , before it was located in this superb hemicycle - between 1994 and 1997 .
more specifically , i should also like to acknowledge the encouragement given to the french government by pervenche beres and klaus hansch , as well as the ambition sought by some speakers , such as mr watson .
unlike mr bayrou , i do not think that it is fair , appropriate or timely today to eradicate these two phases , as it were , and to introduce them both under the french presidency , because that would entail the risk of complicating the outcome of the igc or , quite the opposite , to minimise this outcome , and ensure that it would only appear as an annex .
our position is quite clear .
as mr corbett pointed out , it is true that the most important points are , in particular , the extension of qualified majority voting , which generally goes hand in hand with codecision with the european parliament , and closer cooperation , because this is a bridge between the first and second stages , between the present and the future , since it improves the functioning of the european union and because it enables us to think about the europe of tomorrow .
i wish to assure the european parliament that this charter is one of our priorities and we hope that the convention will prove worthy of the task so that we will be able to discuss it in detail at the biarritz european council , with a view , as the french president has said , to making as much progress as possible with the content .
i am aware of the more or less unanimous feeling of the european parliament about the restrictive nature of this charter .
the commission will shortly be giving its opinion on this study , mr president , next week , i believe .
member states will also have to study this document , which inevitably raises many questions .
i shall say quite clearly that france , - and here once again for a moment i am speaking on behalf of a major national delegation in the council - would not be able to accept this .
honourable members of the european parliament , mr president of the commission , these are some of my thoughts , certainly not all of them , that have been stimulated by this debate , which was of extremely high quality and very encouraging for our presidency .
over the last three years , a reversal in its external economic situation has weakened its economic fabric , which is structured but ageing .
this discontent was expressed in february ' s referendum on the constitution , which was the first time that the presidential party had lost an election since independence in 1980 .
these shifts , which i have just mentioned , have resulted in the deaths of 33 people , they have made the economic crisis worse and have distorted fair competition in the elections , thereby creating a real risk of instability in southern africa .
the european union nevertheless considered it important that elections should be held and that the results should be credible and acceptable .
it therefore sought the agreement of the zimbabwean authorities to send , as far in advance of the elections as possible , a large mission of nearly 200 observers , thereby demonstrating the union ' s interest in seeing democracy consolidated in that country .
although our observers noted that the degree of violence , irregularities and intimidation in the period leading up to the elections meant that the words ' free and honest ' could not be applied to the fifth legislative elections in the history of zimbabwe , they nevertheless emphasised the efficient organisation of the voting itself , the large turnout - i believe it was the largest since independence was achieved - and the peaceful atmosphere in which it took place .
on behalf of the european union , i should also like to congratulate the zimbabwean people , who , by taking part in these elections in such numbers , have proved their determination to take their destiny into their hands in a peaceful and democratic way .
the entry into parliament of a significant opposition - in fact it almost has a majority in the seats that were contested in these elections - suggests that constructive debates will be held .
because the union wishes to continue to intervene on behalf of those who have been worst affected by the crisis , it is particularly willing to provide assistance for the necessary land reform in order to reduce poverty , despite the fact that this has not been implemented in an orderly , transparent or rational way .
they have all done a magnificent job .
they clearly managed to fulfill their objectives under very difficult circumstances and they discharged their mandate in an extremely effective way .
the mobilisation of a full and experienced team on the ground less than four weeks after an informal decision by european union foreign ministers is a tribute to the enormous efforts of everyone concerned .
the honourable gentlemen is right to recommend that the european union should in the coming weeks and months monitor very carefully what is happening in zimbabwe and provide assistance and support wherever it is appropriate for us to do so .
we would certainly want to endorse this , and my colleague commissioner nielson and i will certainly intensify our efforts to strengthen channels of communication , both formal and informal , with president mugabe and his government , to facilitate the transition to effective multi-party democracy .
the outcome of the legislative elections could mark a major transformation in the country 's political culture , the transition to a multiparty system in which parliament will replace the ruling party zanu pf politburo as the main policy-making institution .
the new government of zimbabwe and all those who want to see the country rise above its present serious difficulties , whether they relate to the economic situation , the question of land reform or the terrible scourge of hiv , must now address the challenges effectively , collectively and constructively .
the result of these elections offers the eu a new opportunity for reviewing our cooperation with zimbabwe .
zimbabwe 's eur 110 million 8th edf national indicative programme has a direct poverty alleviation orientation .
its main sectors of cooperation are agriculture , health and education .
the commission 's approach so far has been that aid directed to the protection of basic social services and the reinforcement of civil society should be maintained even during periods of crisis .
a total of eur 19 million is about to be released for a micro-projects programme which in the interests of consensual policies has been delayed until after the elections .
the commission has maintained its support for land reform through this micro-projects programme , which is actually for poverty alleviation assistance for legally acquired land in resettlement schemes .
however , in april the commission froze the eur 2 million for technical and policy support for land reform .
the commission and other donors are ready to support the process , provided it is in the framework of legality , transparency and poverty alleviation objectives , in accordance with the 1998 donor land conference agreements .
this programme is to be financed from the eur 33 million in the 8th edf second tranche .
i will take a decision on this in the next few months depending on developments in zimbabwe .
in any event the european commission is continuing to support poverty alleviation schemes .
if the government seizes the opportunity offered by these new elections , eu support could be more substantial in the future .
it is my pleasure to give the first presentation of the final report of the eu election observation mission to zimbabwe here in the european parliament , an institution that has taught me so much and been such a joy to work in . " these were not perfect elections , " said the opposition leader morgan tsvangirai drily .
our mission had , therefore from the beginning stressed that we were not only there for the election process , but that our final report would also attach great attention to the post-election phase .
our hope was that , in spite of the extensive violence and intimidation campaign for which the ruling zanu-pf had by far the greatest responsibility , the people , aided by a large international and national monitoring presence , could cast their votes in a relatively free , fair and non-violent environment on election day .
but i would also like to stress that there was much more non-violence in the form of the millions of people who wanted to exercise the democratic right to vote .
the main opposition party , while challenging the results in 20 constituencies , has also accepted the results of the elections .
the european union should endeavour to ensure that international observers are deployed in good time for the presidential election scheduled to take place in 2002 .
the european union should make a particular effort during the coming weeks and months to monitor events in zimbabwe closely and provide assistance and support where appropriate .
the commission , of course , responded in a swift and commendable way to the decision of the council , and the continuous cooperation and dialogue throughout the process has been invaluable .
let me end by saying that the eu mission was a high-profile one , very well received among the people in general to a point that would be the envy of several member states , including mine , mr patten .
our mission was an act of commitment to the people in africa and to democracy worldwide .
i see the mission to zimbabwe as a natural consequence of our support for the struggle for african independence and of our wish to build a strong partnership with a peaceful and democratic zimbabwe .
pierre schori and his team have rendered outstanding service to democracy in zimbabwe .
it is still important for us to engage in dialogue with the government , the opposition and the socially relevant forces , so that in future , zimbabwe is able to make a contribution towards stability in southern africa .
the elections in zimbabwe have been both a victory and a defeat for mugabe .
they were a defeat in the sense that , for the first time in its short independent life , zimbabwe has a multi-party political system , which was something that mugabe clearly opposed .
apart from tolerating , and even , as we know , promoting , a climate of intimidation and violence , mugabe has made considerable errors of judgement .
on the one hand , he has underestimated the european union ' s seriousness , willingness and capacity to act in the case of zimbabwe .
mugabe has brought to these elections the customs and methods of a war of liberation , on occasion treating political rivals as if they were colonial occupiers who needed to be banished .
this relative consolidation of a new urban vote , together with the manipulation of official democracy and the violation of human rights , would not otherwise have led to many citizens voting against him , and that is what they have done .
the country and the population will gain as a whole if the current government and the emerging opposition show sufficient political wisdom and common sense to generously and cautiously deal with the transition from former political customs to other new ones .
in this area , the opposition also has a role to play .
mr president , this will help the future of zimbabwe , its society and the new political culture born of these elections .
threats of violence against supporters of the mdc have continued after the elections .
the archbishop of bulawayo has been threatened .
we should take direct action against assets that president mugabe owns outside of zimbabwe .
mr president , my speaking time is too restricted to describe the fate of a country for which , for so many years , the situation was in fact quite hopeful , but which for the past couple of years has been on a slippery slope towards greater underdevelopment , whilst the population of zimbabwe is highly developed .
the population is knowledgeable despite the fact that the opposition was prevented from taking part in the election propaganda in a normal way , at least as far as the official media is concerned .
the events of zimbabwe compel us , however , to consider the relationship between democracy and values , and this may be the right forum for that , as we refer to the eu as a society of values .
the philosopher and theologian , niebuhr , once said that a person ' s sense of what is right makes democracy possible , but his inclinations in the opposite direction make democracy absolutely necessary .
they also augur extremely well for the european union ' s future cooperation with that country .
there are many things that now seem possible or , in any event , easier , between us .
the report drawn up by the mission led by mr schori , the thoroughness of whose work i must emphasis once again , as did commissioners patten and nielsen , provides us with a perfectly clear and impartial analysis of the way in which zimbabwe ' s legislative elections were held .
the electoral situation was particularly tense , not to say violent .
the benefit of this mission in this regard , as in many others , is undeniable .
the council presidency is delighted at the generally smooth running of these elections , even if , here and there , the voting conditions might have left us rather perplexed and the mission ' s conclusions on this matter are extremely enlightening .
the council presidency fully supports the commission ' s analysis of the need to cooperate with zimbabwe .
it is crucial that european aid has a direct bearing on the economic and social problems that are besetting the people of zimbabwe .
community funds must now be released , as commissioner nielsen suggested .
for its part , the government of zimbabwe must also move forward and fulfil its commitments to land reform , to respect for court judgements and to economic transparency .
i am convinced that this process needs to ensure the stabilisation of the country and also its democratic involvement in regional integration .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
firstly , the point must be made quite forcefully that the existence of organised criminal networks , as well as the scale of professional smuggling , which is contemptible but lucrative , plays a central role in illegal immigration , both in increasing the flows themselves and in the methods for smuggling people , of which the tragedy at dover is an extreme example .
this point must be emphasised in order to respond to those who say that it is immigration control that creates illegal immigrants .
police chiefs have identified a russian mafia , exploiting sri lankans and chinese , and a turkish mafia is taking charge of kurds , afghans and iranians .
the fact that many of these illegal immigrants are concentrated in calais , a bridging post for the united kingdom - more than 10 000 have been arrested since august 1999 - shows the extremely active nature of the smugglers : 400 of them have been arrested since august 1999 .
since it is easier , more lucrative and less risky than other forms of trafficking , such as drug trafficking , for example , trafficking in illegal immigrants is becoming a major issue in police and judicial action and cooperation .
non-lawful immigration or the trafficking in human beings is a new form of slavery that cannot be tolerated in our democratic societies .
we know , for example , that in order to use the services of a smuggler , it costs a chinese national between eur 10 000 and eur 20 000 and years of illegal work to repay this debt .
the rhetoric of calling for a massive opening up of immigration for work or for the automatic right of residence for all immigrants only feeds this dream of europe and helps to push hundreds of thousands of people every year into the clutches of criminal networks working in illegal immigration .
the council is determined to implement all necessary measures to combat this odious trafficking .
since 1995 , france has had a central office for the prevention of illegal immigration and employment , which has greatly enhanced its action in breaking up criminal networks in the last two years .
given the reality of the trade in human beings and of the traffic in illegal immigration , the french presidency wishes to promote european cooperation , based on the conclusions of the tampere summit and on the following principles : co-development , the integration of foreigners , the fight against illegal immigration and the common policy on asia .
the council must base its action on the guidelines adopted at tampere and i quote : " the european union needs a comprehensive approach to migration addressing political , human rights and development issues in countries and regions of origin and transit " .
migratory movements are actually due to numerous factors : demographic differences between the north and the south , the continual increase in inequalities of income and wealth between the richest and poorest countries , the instability of certain political situations and the often false image that immigrants have of what a future in europe might hold for them .
the whole purpose of co-development is to link up these countries ' policies for development in order to exercise control over migration flows .
france will strive to provide new impetus to this progress towards co-development , making use of its experience in this area .
there are two questions to be answered : how can we encourage the development of local projects , specifically through aid for training and the resettlement of foreigners who wish to return to their mother country in order to contribute to its economic development , and how can this local development contribute to controlling migration flows by stabilising the population ?
the study being carried out on these two issues will benefit the future work of the high level working group on asylum and immigration , which is today striving to implement the specific measures established in five action plans , covering morocco and sri lanka .
implementing this priority led to a seminar being held on 6 and 7 july in paris , in which experts and several ministers will take part .
the european union ' s second main priority , which was established at tampere , is to integrate foreign nationals who are legally entitled to be in our countries .
this is an important point with regard to the fight against trafficking in human beings , which feeds off the fact that some foreign nationals in the european union are on the margins of , or excluded from , society .
this integration requires a firm policy to provide equal economic and social rights and an equally staunch fight against any form of discrimination , particularly in the field of employment .
the french presidency is planning to hold a seminar in october on this theme , with a view to presenting the council with a draft text on the harmonisation of permits for extended periods of residence , which is an essential mechanism for integration .
the opportunity to adopt the nationality of member states is also a fundamental aspect of integrating foreign nationals in europe , but we realise that , in this area , each country applies its own laws .
the tampere council specifically stressed this priority , and i quote : " the european council stresses the need for more efficient management of migration flows at all their stages .
the council has urged the forthcoming french presidency and the commission to ensure that the tampere conclusions on this subject are implemented as a matter of urgency .
the french presidency has already proposed four initiatives to the council .
the proposed text provides for a minimum fine of eur 2000 .
a second draft framework decision seeks to increase the criminal punishment for aiding the illegal entry or stay in a country .
this text will therefore play an important role in more effectively curbing the traffic in human beings .
the french presidency ' s third initiative was to also submit a draft directive on cooperation in the matter of expulsions .
the purpose of this draft directive is to facilitate the implementation of an expulsion measure passed by one member state against a foreign national who is not legally entitled to stay , when this measure is taken by any other state , the foreign national having been arrested in their territory .
in its capacity as holder of the presidency , france has submitted new proposals in this field , specifically an action plan , which the european institutions are about to discuss .
first of all , it is crucial to increase police cooperation in the exchange of information on illegal migration flows and on criminal networks .
as the feira conclusions emphasise , it is particularly important to develop europol ' s role in curbing the traffic in human beings .
the french presidency therefore intends immediately to ask europol to submit a report on the action it has undertaken in this area .
the other aim in the field of police cooperation is to strengthen the rapid warning mechanism , which must be made sufficiently effective to enable member states to be informed about and to react in good time to events connected with illegal immigration .
increasing this coordination also involves establishing a network of liaison officers from the member states in the countries where the immigration originates , in order to improve understanding of particular situations , to control immigration at source , particularly through the checking of travel documents at the point of embarkation at airports .
this whole range of projects , designed to strengthen the fight against illegal immigration , will be the subject of a seminar on criminal networks , which is to be held in paris on 20 and 21 july , in other words , in a few days ' time .
this seminar will bring together high level representatives of the member states , the countries of central and eastern europe , the united states , australia , canada and mexico .
several ministers from the member states as well as the heads of various immigration services and border police from member states will be taking part in this symposium .
i should also like to emphasise the fact that one of the fundamental points resulting from tampere is the principle of harmonising the right of asylum between member states .
this is another important tool in the fight against illegal immigration .
the right to asylum is frequently used by criminal networks as a legal tool to make the entry into a country and the stay there easier for illegal immigrants .
the main difficulty in our task is therefore the need to reconcile this fundamental right to asylum , which is recognised in international conventions , with the fight against fraud .
the summit conclusions state that " this system should include , in the short term , a clear and workable determination of the state responsible for the examination of an asylum application , common standards for a fair and efficient asylum procedure , and common minimum conditions of reception of asylum seekers " .
we must also rapidly attain the objective of a fair and efficient asylum system in europe .
there is therefore an urgent need to harmonise the conditions of reception for asylum seekers , in order to limit internal flows into european union territory and thereby achieve a more balanced division between member states .
we hope to reach our first conclusions at next december ' s council , so that we can contribute to the preparation of the commission ' s draft directive , which is planned for the beginning of 2001 .
the council is therefore determined to use all necessary means to fight against the traffic in human beings and to do so in accordance with the tampere and feira conclusions .
the commission wishes to reiterate the fact that the framework for such a policy was established by the tampere european council and that precise deadlines have been set for implementing it , both by the treaty of amsterdam and the european council itself .
if such a policy is to have a lasting effect , it must form part of the overall approach defined at tampere , which requires both a more efficient management of migration flows and the development of partnerships with the countries of origin and transit , the establishment of a common asylum system and the guarantee of fair treatment for nationals of third countries who are legally resident in member states ' territory .
a deadline , which runs up to the end of this year , has been set for the formal adoption of the legislative instruments that will enable the main players in this kind of trafficking to be punished .
this does not only involve monitoring the european union ' s points of entry , but also monitoring what is happening within our member states , particularly with regard to the illegal labour market .
furthermore , the traffic in human beings in particular must be curbed , since it involves trafficking in women and children for the purpose of sexual exploitation , which is a specific feature of the traffic in human beings in general .
the commission also urges member states to increase their cooperation with interpol , so that this body is able to make full use of all its resources in the fight against organised crime in this area .
in this respect , we wish to emphasise the importance of the conference to be held by the french presidency on 20 and 21 july in paris , which the minister has just mentioned .
all means should be investigated in order to facilitate administrative cooperation , following the example of the odysseus programme , a third of whose projects that have been retained for 2000 are already contributing to the fight against illegal immigration .
within the framework of cooperation with countries and regions of origin and transit in general , particular attention must be paid both to combating poverty and to respect for human rights .
we should consider the option of increasing the appropriations that have been earmarked for this purpose in the preliminary draft budget for 2001 .
in addition to this , forms of closer cooperation could be considered for applicant countries , particularly in the areas of training , equipment , and the exchange of information on criminal networks .
with this in mind , we feel that it is important to develop cooperation agreements between europol and the police forces in applicant countries as quickly as possible .
the proposals that the commission has already submitted concerning the european refugee fund and temporary protection , as well as the launch of the process of revising the dublin convention , should be swiftly followed up by other initiatives on the procedures and conditions for the reception of asylum-seekers .
the commission is in the process of evaluating the report by the european parliament on its communication on a common procedure in order to present , before the end of this year , a legislative initiative on a common procedure for asylum in europe .
as was said at tampere , the whole purpose of the exercise is to achieve , in the medium term , a common definition of refugee status and , to complement this , other subsidiary forms of protection .
mr president , it is a tragedy that it has taken the deaths of another 58 people to get the problem of trafficking firmly on the international , political agenda .
the dover disaster has once again opened our eyes to the unscrupulous practices of traffickers in human beings and to the powerlessness - or should that be unwillingness ? - on the part of the european union to stamp out this disgraceful type of exploitation .
trafficking in human beings has grown into a bigger business than trafficking in drugs , according to the economist last week .
organised crime has discovered that this business is not only more profitable , there is less risk involved too .
this internationalisation of organised crime is in stark contrast to the inability of the eu member states to adopt a coordinated approach in dealing with the trafficking in human beings .
in our resolution , we at least call for the application of the principle of solidarity and make a few very specific proposals for far-reaching cooperation in the fight against the trafficking in human beings .
mr president , i would also like to begin my intervention by saying that my sentiments about the dover catastrophe are deeply felt .
having said this , i am sure , as commissioner vitorino has said , that the european union needs a common policy in order to manage the legal entry of immigrants - bearing in mind our economic , social and demographic situation - in a reasonable way , preventing arbitrary treatment and , above all , turning to legal immigration avenues instead of traffickers in human beings .
we also have the responsibility - and i would like to highlight this - to apply laws which already exist in the whole of the european union and which regulate our labour market .
because that is what it comes down to : each time a policy is announced , but this time , we need to do something about it , because we know that the trafficking in human beings simply continues .
but i would like to point out something else .
the heads of government themselves , under the leadership of president chirac , who were here this morning , could chip in straight away .
when they meet in nice , they could abolish the right of veto in european justice policy .
thirdly , how the current policies of the european union and its member states help to create refugees .
we need to examine the consequences of our policies on , for example , trade , its rules and terms and who we will trade with , the conduct of companies based in the european union and their operations in other countries such as nigeria , the arms sales by member states to repressive regimes .
mr president , 58 chinese immigrants who arrived at dover , in the hope of a better life , have died in horrific conditions , surrounded by crates of tomatoes .
let us not forget yagine and fode , the two boys from guinea , who wanted to see brussels last summer .
fourteen kurds died of asphyxiation in the hold of a burning ship in patras .
the debate that has opened as a result of the dover tragedy has focused on the traffic in human beings and the eradication of the mafias that organise the criminal networks .
as a result , in france , chinese illegal immigrants are forced to work for years in sweat-shops to pay for their journey .
the dogma of liberal globalisation has magnified the free movement of goods and capital , but is seeking to stop the free movement of people .
it is true that the free movement established by the european union is a fundamental right , but this is reserved for its own nationals .
all of these factors have simply created new forms of illegal immigration .
a seminar is certainly a good idea , minister , but it should cover a common immigration policy based on the principle of freedom of movement , improving rights ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , the horrific death of 58 chinese illegal immigrants , discovered by british customs officers at dover , highlights , above all , the scale of the pressure that migration is exerting on the countries of europe .
in a case which is so typical , the best possible response we can provide is to combat illegal immigration and particularly the mafia-type organisations behind this new form of trafficking in human beings .
we are rather shocked to hear the words of commissioner vitorino , who , on 20 june , on the subject of the dover tragedy , said that this , amongst other events , was proof of the need for a genuine policy on admission and integration , which makes a definitive break with the fantasy of zero immigration .
on behalf of the council , minister , you informed us that the immigration policy and the fight against crimes related to illegal immigration are two separate issues .
minister , i believe that parliament may be able to take a stance on this matter which opposes what you have said today .
there are outbreaks of violence and xenophobia all over europe and , while here we are talking about a new globalised economic society and a new information society , we do not realise that organised crime , trafficking in human beings , sexual exploitation and drug-trafficking have also become globalised .
that is to say , we are talking about a new form of criminality and human slavery which reminds us of the pre-abolitionist era in the united states .
this is the responsibility of some very important international organisations and there is a desperate need for international cooperation to combat one of the most shameful violations of human rights ; international cooperation of european police forces and judges with police and judges in the countries where the migrants come from , who also have responsibility for the problem .
minister , commissioner , you have truly disappointed me .
the tampere conclusions make a clear call for the commission to submit a report on the implementation of the conclusions of the high level working group on asylum and immigration for the consideration of the european council in december 2000 .
this means that , in six months , you will have to draw up a report on what you have achieved .
we talk and talk , draft and produce texts and can be very low , very pessimistic , but it is the first time that we are talking at global level and that something is being done to solve the problem .
realistic in the sense that practice and theory are two different things .
chinese girls , and women , in particular , are more communicative than men , because i have the impression that women are less fearful when it comes to this kind of thing .
we will overcome illegal trafficking when we tackle the causes of the gap between rich and poor countries , when we practise a policy of cooperation and development which allows everyone to live as a citizen of the world .
indeed i am delighted whenever the council presidency comes up with fresh proposals , and a great many proposals have also been produced on this occasion which are to be welcomed .
there have been a whole host of individual measures where the second measure has often been put in place before the first , instead of the other way around .
i am even tempted to suggest that they might use things like the echelon system to start fighting against these traffickers , but that might be rather provocative in view of the vote coming up on thursday .
the second element is the provision of legal residence for foreign nationals and , from this point of view , i do not think that a policy of zero immigration is right for europe .
the third and last element consists of combating illegal immigration , and particularly criminal networks .
under our presidency , we have the opportunity to build on the proposals presented in this debate .
i am thinking in particular of the proposal by commissioner vitorino on readmission agreements with the countries of origin , such as china , for example , with regard to making the trafficking in human beings for purposes of sexual exploitation a specific crime .
we have planned an informal council meeting , a justice and home affairs council , for the end of this month , in marseilles , and , to that end , we have tabled this issue on the agenda .
we carried out these measures in the six months following tampere , in compliance with the deadline adopted under the scoreboard that the commission presented to the council .
the commission is not behind schedule , and although this is a complex debate , it is under way , both in parliament and in the council .
you said that my speech did not match the deadline that was set for the end of this year , so that the nice european council can evaluate the policy on asylum and immigration .
with regard to this point , i suggest that you look more closely at which deadlines we are in fact discussing .
nice has the task of undertaking a preliminary evaluation of the work of the high level working group on asylum and immigration .
this is a deadline that was set at tampere for the approval of a legislative instrument which establishes common definitions , common incriminations and common punishments for trafficking in human beings , and specifically for trafficking in women and children for purposes of sexual exploitation .
i therefore think that we are indeed putting forward initiatives and i am counting on the support both of the council and parliament to be able to conclude these legislative procedures within the deadlines that have been fixed .
thank you very much , commissioner vitorino .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday , at 12 noon . 1998 discharge ( continuation ) the next item is the continuation of the joint debate on the 1998 discharge .
ladies and gentlemen , as you will be aware , this morning ' s joint debate on granting discharge to the commission was not closed , since we still had to hear commissioner schreyer ' s final speech .
mrs morgan asked me whether the commission was still prepared to answer questions on this .
of course the commission is willing to do so and i am in fact confident , chairman of the committee on budgetary control , that in this respect too , we will be able to find a way of completing the exchange of information in such a way that there are no disagreements or differences of opinion .
this is a demand that the committee on budgetary control has just put to parliament , the commission and of course the council .
on behalf of the commission , i would again like to thank you for this morning ' s debate and also for the constructive criticism , and i would like to reassure you once again that the commission will take steps - some of which it has already taken - to guarantee more effective implementation of the budget of the european union .
thank you very much , commissioner schreyer .
the debate is closed .
it was better because it was more rigorous , more transparent and more rational .
it was better because it established the promotion of employment as a factor to be taken into consideration when selecting potential projects .
the work under the conciliation procedure added further improvements to the life iii regulation and we can say quite simply that , although we lost on the issue of comitology , we managed to get our views across on the essential issues .
with regard to the budget for the period 2000-2004 , which was the main issue at stake , we would clearly have preferred to agree on an amount closer to eur 850 million - the sum proposed by the european parliament - than the eur 613 million set by the commission and the council .
nevertheless , as they say , politics is the art of the possible , and if we had not agreed , as we finally did in conciliation , on an amount of eur 640 million , we would have ended up bearing the political responsibility for leaving thousands of projects in limbo and without financial support for the year 2000 .
the concept of relationships with nature is changing radically in our own time .
with this in mind , the european union has pioneered legislation in the field of environmental protection and has also been a key partner in international negotiations and agreements on the global protection of the planet .
the transposition of european directives into national legislation has played and continues to play a crucial role in all our countries , particularly portugal .
the life programme is just one financial instrument at the service of the european union ' s environmental policies and of those of its neighbouring countries in the baltic , the mediterranean and in eastern europe .
having experienced many vicissitudes and a period of paralysis with regard to the projects financed by this programme , the portuguese presidency and the european parliament finally formalised an agreement specifically on a budgetary framework of eur 640 million for the period 2000-2004 .
i also wish to welcome the agreement reached by the portuguese presidency and the european parliament on the framework directive on water , an instrument that is crucial for the european union ' s environmental policy .
mr president , the european life programme is the key european union initiative to integrate environmental measures into the broad ambit of european union policies .
the union as a political entity has a moral and legal obligation to ensure that a clean environment is protected and promoted under article 130 of the maastricht treaty .
in fact between1992 and 1992 the life initiative cofinanced nearly 1600 projects with a total community contribution of approximately eur 2.1 billion .
i also welcome the fact that the member states have allocated an increase of eur 27 million for the new life programme for the next five years and that the overall budgetary allocation made to the life programme will be in the region of eur 640 million .
mr president , the european union ' s environmental policy never ceases to amaze me .
the life programme , with its eur 640 million budgetary allocation , is far from being a model of transparency , leading us to question the proper use of public funds .
in february i proposed - in vain - that the funds used in land purchase should be set aside for public structures , as in our view , public money should not be used as private real estate capital , even under the guise of environmental protection .
the commission also shares this view and in its clarification of the eligibility criteria regarding expenditure within the framework of the structural funds sem 2000 stated that , ' the purchase of land is the responsibility of a public institution or an organisation that is subject to public law ' .
i also put forward six other specific proposals that would be easy to implement , in order to limit local disputes and justify the proper use of public monies .
the original commission proposal dates back to december 1998 .
it will be used to set up the natura 2000 network - another measure that has your support - and it will promote the incorporation of environmental interests in land utilisation planning , as well as promote environmental projects in the mediterranean and baltic regions .
the programme extends over a number of years ( 2000 to 2004 ) , and the financial allocation was increased from eur 613 million to eur 640 million under the conciliation procedure .
in the course of the conciliation negotiations there were also discussions about the committees that are supporting the commission in the implementation of the programme , and on behalf of the commission , i would draw your attention at this point to the fact that , in our view , the provisions of the corresponding council decision were not applied correctly , which is why the commission duly submitted a statement to this effect at the end of the procedure .
this meeting is due to take place on 20 july .
the new interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament , the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and the improvement of the budgetary procedure , which was concluded on 6 may last , have revised our old ad hoc procedure .
we are in possession of the commission ' s draft budget , and our motion will contain advice for the council on its first reading of the budget .
one of our main priorities was , is , and remains support for the peace and stability process in the balkans .
in addition , as early as december last year , we drew up a joint declaration , together with the council , during our last second reading .
however we do not think that we should finance our aid to kosovo and the balkans simply by carrying out a multiannual redeployment of our traditional priorities in external policy , and making cutbacks in our cooperation with developing countries and in the aid we deliver to the poorest of the poor .
consequently , we are expecting the council to enter into constructive negotiations with us to this end , and hope to reach a conclusion before the council ' s first reading .
last year , parliament fought tooth and nail for heading 1b .
as far as the fisheries agreements are concerned , we are expecting that as in previous ad hoc procedures , the commission will submit updated , realistic figures before parliament ' s first reading that we will then be able to take into account .
we expect the council to take account of our deliberations and decisions in those of its own .
first of all , the european budget comes off worse compared to other major continents because there is less public funding available here compared to those other continents .
amendment no 20 concerns innovative measures .
the appropriation must be kept at the level decided at berlin .
the importance of innovation was stressed both at the lisbon and feira summits .
the commission and the member states should also simplify and speed up administration procedures relating to structural funds .
mr president , we in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy are enthusiastic supporters of the common foreign and security policy , and we are also supporters of these special envoys which , at the moment , are inscribed in the commission ' s budget .
for if the council definitely wants these appropriations to appear in the council ' s budget , there is , of course , the possibility of the council ' s , in return , entering into a type of inter-institutional agreement with ourselves here in parliament , whereby the council promises to give us the same information , control , inspection facilities etc as if the appropriations had appeared in the commission ' s budget .
it certainly is the case that , with the move to activity-based budgeting , we are moving away from the concept that everything that was previously in the budget has to be preserved for the future .
i want to reiterate our commitment in the research area .
i recognise that this is not a matter that is affected by the budget on this occasion , but we should not ignore the changes we are seeing in the energy sphere with save and altener .
the figures that we see are seeing for save , where there is a significant reduction in the budget for energy efficiency schemes , are a result of the budgetary process last year .
this includes developing markets for financial services , providing risk capital , but also giving special attention to female entrepreneurship , as has already been called for by the committee on economic and monetary affairs in the guidelines .
we wanted more money for employment and we wanted to gather more experience of similar projects over three years so as to be able to subsequently arrive at a legal basis .
hence there are , of course , no possible circumstances under which we would endorse the commission ' s decision on this , simply because , as a commission , you have run out of ideas at the moment for promoting innovative measures in the social fund .
it is equally unacceptable and completely incomprehensible that the commission wants to make drastic cutbacks of 32 % and 18 % respectively in the budget headings for the action plans against social exclusion and discrimination , even though social coherence in the european union is precisely what we are always calling for , and only this morning we again had an extensive debate on the anti-discrimination package .
mr president , the committee on fisheries has been calling for the strengthening of the common fisheries policy on an international level as well .
as draftsperson of the committee on fisheries , i would like to express my satisfaction with the committee on budgets ' support for our proposals on the international fishing organisations and agreements .
in an increasingly globalised world , the union must increase its presence in these organisations which regulate offshore fishing , for reasons of prestige , good management of resources and , above all , the defence of the interests of our industry and our workers .
my second point concerns the international agreements .
this is by far the european union ' s most important agreement in this area and our main priority : five hundred boats , thousands of fishermen out of work and many economically paralysed areas depend on its renewal .
mr president , first of all i would like to express my gratitude to the committee on budgets for their sound cooperation .
we are prepared to make do with reducing spending to the 2000 level and thus cancel out the cut-backs which the commission proposed in favour of financing kosovo .
this morning , we talked about the 1998 discharge .
as you will see just from these examples , what we need to know goes well beyond the discussion on financing the western balkans .
in fact , it would be a mistake for the european parliament to reduce the discussion of the 2001 budget to this one issue .
if you look at the haug report , parliament wants to find a solution .
we are actually looking for agreement with the council on the way to get a good budget by the end of this year .
it is pretty hard to get an agreement when the council just ignores article 20 of the interinstitutional agreement .
and that will be at the forefront of our discussions at the trialogue this week and in the conciliation on 20 july .
whatever the council votes on 20 july we will still be making that point in the autumn when it comes to our first reading .
from the very first trialogue of this year with the portuguese presidency , the one thing that was obvious to everyone is that we need an agreement between the three institutions on the funding for the western balkans .
the council 's position is about 200 million less than ours , which means that we will not get an agreement on that and unless we have an agreement there is going to be a problem in how we fund the needs in category 4 .
for an institution that tells us that what was agreed in berlin was set in concrete , i think the council has a bit of a cheek in moving large sums of money from the meda programme which they agreed 12 months ago and then lecturing us about what can and cannot be moved .
having said that , we are of course , prepared to listen to the council , to hear what their suggestions are and i look forward to our trialogue this week and the conciliation meeting on 20 july .
the report under discussion concerns parliament ' s provisional position on the budget in the conciliation talks that are to be held .
eur 1.9 billion has already been found for the programme ; of the remainder , eur 1.4 billion would be found by the reallocation of category 4 funds , and 1.8 billion by moving funds from the section of the budget dealing with agriculture .
in addition , the future needs of agriculture are hard to estimate , as the agenda 2000 reforms are only just starting and the wto talks are in their elementary stages .
the commission ' s proposal for the cards programme is explicit and our group supports it .
eu member states have to bear the responsibility for the reconstruction of the balkans , as most of them were keen supporters of the military action there , and many also took part in it .
this is stated in point 3 of mrs haug ' s report .
the council is responsible for the reconstruction of the balkans .
for the first time since the berlin agreement , negotiations will take place in the council before first reading regarding a possible review of the financial perspective .
my groups welcomes this development .
at the same time the reconstruction of kosovo , after the illegal war there , is being financed at the expense of other countries receiving aid , in a way that is improper and dishonest .
our group supports the former position expressed by parliament , according to which the council must agree to amend the financial perspectives , particularly with regard to category 4 .
furthermore , the granting of discharge must also concern a common foreign and security policy .
firstly , the budget with its eur 93 million in payment appropriations represents a 5 % increase , whereas national budgets are subject to greater austerity .
we are witnessing the continued , and wholly scandalous , misappropriation of eur 300 million of agricultural funds for the reconstruction of kosovo , as though the balkans formed part of the cap !
over the past 20 years , non-essential expenditure has increased from 5 % to more than 45 % of the total budget expenditure without any modification to the treaties .
in other words , the revolution that looks set to take place in european affairs over the coming ten years is not an institutional one but a budgetary and tax one .
mr president , budget 2001 must not be to the detriment of agriculture .
this will impinge on us all .
the principle of financing the poor at the expense of other poor people has no place in europe .
on the other hand , the implementation figures for programmes outside the european union are very poor and in some cases this is the fault of third countries and in others , the majority of cases , it is the fault of the commission .
what is clear is that the budgetary implementations do not match the effort made in recent years to introduce these programmes into the budget .
to sum up , i would like to say that terence wynn ' s position seems to me to be very coherent .
it is clear that nobody is managing to give a reliable estimate of what is needed in kosovo .
as the former mep , lord tomlinson , said , there is nothing more expensive than a meal amongst foreign affairs ministers : they are always ready to promise money without considering where it will come from .
i would like to remind you , ladies and gentlemen , that in order to topple pinochet , the european community spent eur 10 million .
our contribution to the campaign against pinochet in the referendum was eur 10 million .
we are simply dealing with a case of budgetary procedure in the field of non-obligatory expenditure and , therefore , the most that could be said would be that the council has not complied with article 20 of the interinstitutional agreement .
mr president , i am grateful for this opportunity to make some general comments about the 2001 budget .
in respect of the fisheries budget , i note that an increase of over 27 % is proposed in the funding of international agreements .
these are the southern agreements with third countries which enable eu vessels to fish in the waters of morocco , mauritania , argentina and elsewhere .
i must remind the house that these agreements currently cost eu taxpayers eur 269 million a year and are primarily of benefit to the fishing fleets of spain , portugal and france .
these southern agreements are always calculated on a cash-for-fish basis while northern agreements on the other hand are arranged on a reciprocal basis .
let us make sure the budget is for all eu citizens and not just for the southern eu member states .
to reiterate the point once again , the commission proposal provides for an increase of 5 % in the payment appropriations , and an increase of 3.9 % in the commitment appropriations .
it was not easy to achieve this outcome because the additional requirements for the stability pact had to be accommodated and agenda 2000 involved adopting a very high growth rate in respect of agricultural policy .
this is where the council , unlike the commission , is proposing a reduced package of eur 400 million in commitment appropriations .
the commission considers this proposal to be lacking in the necessary political foresight , in view of the tasks we have before us on the external policy front .
the commission has pointed out that aid for bosnia is being cut , for example , and that albania and montenegro have not exactly been generously provided for in terms of appropriations , on the contrary , only one commitment is being honoured in our view .
there is another point i would like to make on behalf of the commission , and it concerns the field of external policy .
we have proposed that eur 30 million be earmarked in the 2001 budget for the rapid reaction fund , which is used for non-military crisis prevention .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
article 21 of the treaty on european union provides that the presidency shall consult the european parliament on key issues and fundamental decisions with regard to the common foreign and security policy , and ensure that account is duly taken of the views of the european parliament .
this is particularly true as regards recent developments in common foreign and security policy as a result of the feira european council and with a view to the one in nice .
as regards the flexibility of the second pillar , perhaps you will allow the presidency to take the intergovernmental conference in hand , which it will do following the ' general affairs council ' next monday , 10 july .
question no 2 by ( h-0519 / 00 ) : subject : transport of water from france to spain and the sustainable management of water resources france is understood to be intending to launch an aqueduct scheme for transporting water from the rhone to barcelona , with the participation of the lyonnaise water company .
the water is apparently intended to be used to develop irrigated intensive farming in catalonia .
it was adopted recently through a conciliation procedure on 29 june 2000 .
it sets out the basic principles for a sustainable water policy in the european union based on the principles enshrined in the treaty , for example those relating to precautionary , preventative and corrective action by according priority to the source of the threats to the environment , as well as the polluter-pays principle .
the project is designed to ensure that these water sources are maintained in good condition through a series of measures that member states are to implement according to a specific timetable .
with regard to her other comments , i should again like to reiterate my final remarks when i said that we must ensure that all initiatives of this type are subject to a socio-economic and environmental assessment as a matter of course .
mr president-in-office of the council , there have been fears expressed repeatedly in connection with the reading of the framework directive on water , that it could be possible later on in the eu to transport water from one member state to another against the wishes of the first country .
the regulation should also aim at technological neutrality , with the rules that govern communication services being as far as possible independent of the technology implemented to provide these services .
the key element in this commitment is the dialogue that the european union has established with china in relation to human rights .
in spite of some progress achieved in improving the legal system with regard to economic and social rights , little progress has been achieved on the ground , particularly in the area of civil and political rights .
it has been agreed that the european union would continue to publicly express its concerns on the human rights situation in china and raise such matters in meetings with china at all levels .
in addition , the council has agreed that the european union will adopt a firm stance with regard to the motion for a resolution on human rights in china , presented by the united states at the 56th session of the united nations human rights commission .
should the motion for a resolution be put to the vote , the council has agreed that the member states that are part of this commission would vote in favour of it .
it is very good to welcome a former colleague into a new elevated office but let me remind you mr moscovici , of the frustration which we experienced as parliamentarians trying to question the council .
i believe the response of the eu in geneva was appalling .
furthermore , i am from a country which suffered an unexpected defeat , like other members present .
question no 5 by ioannis souladakis ( h-0536 / 00 ) : subject : improvement in the export capacities of the countries of south-eastern europe the stability pact for south-eastern europe is a political choice made by the european union to which it has given a very high priority .
the european union supports the idea that the deepening of international trade should , in the long term , replace the dependence on foreign aid and that trade integration should constitute one of the main facets of greater integration in the longer term for the countries of south-eastern europe in the euro-atlantic structures .
the stability pact for south-eastern europe is generally designed to help the countries of the region attain stability and economic prosperity .
the importance of liberalising and facilitating trade between the countries of the region , and also between these countries and the european union , was highlighted , by both donors and recipients , at the regional conference on pact funding held in brussels at the end of march this year .
in all areas covered by the stability pact , and therefore also in the economic and trade areas , reciprocal commitments between donors and recipients remain the key to the stability pact ' s success .
the commitment expressed by the countries of the region to implement reforms and generate the right climate for sustainable economic progress lies at the very heart of the pact .
in other words , what policies will strengthen production in these regions without the european union 's having to pay out money which , due in part to internal problems , it is having trouble finding anyway .
resolution 1284 , adopted on 17 december 1999 , is aimed at recommencing un inspections and , at the same time , improve the so-called " oil for food " programme " , and finally lifting the sanctions against iraq .
the european union urges the iraqi government to cooperate fully with the un and its supporting bodies .
the council notes that since 1998 no checks have been carried out to see whether iraq is in fact complying with the wholly relevant security council resolutions , in particular resolution 687 .
however , as the panel of experts presided by ambassador amorim noted in april 1999 , the iraqi population would not have suffered such privations had the measures taken in 1991 by the security council not had to have been extended .
the council noted that the united nations security council , in its resolution 1302 , invited the un secretary general to appoint independent experts to draw up an in-depth study on the humanitarian situation in iraq .
i asked the question because there is a certain sensitivity in france to this issue .
i have listened to the president-in-office 's formal reply ; however , we all know full well that the situation in iraq is connected with the arbitrary policy imposed by the united states .
according to the statistics , the number of people who have lost their life in iraq since 1990 , as a result of the sanctions , now totals 1 309 153 .
this is not the time to hold a debate on relations between the council and parliament with regard to questions , since that would take up time allotted to question time .
in any event , this debate can be held in the conference of presidents , which deals with these relations and any incidents which may occur .
to come back to the question raised , article 17 of the treaty on european union lays down that union policy under this article does not impact on the specific nature of the security and defence policy of some member states , including non-allied member states .
similarly , the policy observes the obligations of the north atlantic treaty with regard to those member states who consider that their common defence is provided within the framework of nato , and it is compatible with the common security and defence policy established within this framework .
after amsterdam , the european union undertook a process aimed at enabling it to take all of the measures needed to play a role in the areas of conflict prevention and crisis management , measures that are defined in the treaty on european union and known as the petersburg tasks , without prejudice to the position of the member states as regards their membership or non-membership of nato or the weu .
question no 8 by ( h-0545 / 00 ) : subject : priorities of the french presidency as regards the advancement of women what specific measures will the french presidency be putting forward as its priorities for the advancement of women in europe ?
mrs nicole pery , my colleague and secretary of state for women ' s rights , will outline next week the french presidency ' s programme in this area to your committee responsible .
my intention here is to simply give a few brief details .
firstly , the commission has just sent the council a communication entitled ' towards a community framework strategy for sexual equality ' , also a proposal for a council decision on a support programme for the community strategy on sexual equality , a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and council modifying directive 67 / 207 / eec on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards - and this is crucial - access to jobs , training and vocational training and working conditions .
the french presidency , i stress , has already timetabled the presentation of these commission texts .
as regards the proposal for a decision relating to a programme on the basis of article 13 of the treaty and the fact that the programme is due to start on 1 january 2001 , the aim of the presidency is to adopt it during the ' employment and social welfare ' council on 28 november .
with regard to the proposal for a directive , the french presidency shall endeavour to make as much progress as possible .
apart from these legislative texts , the council , as in previous years , shall also to consider the implementation of the beijing action plan by the member states .
what is more , the french presidency will organise two events in relation to this : a ministerial conference on 27 october in paris that will focus on three issues - women and decision-making , reconciling family life and professional life and mainstreaming - as well as a symposium on equality in the workplace on 24 november in paris that will centre on discrimination in recruitment and the difficulties of returning to work .
you have demonstrated this in your reply .
question no 9 by ( h-0552 / 00 ) : subject : council 's views on the pelinka case in austria on 1 may 1999 , professor anton pelinka commented on the italian television channel rai on previous statements made by the freedom party 's jorg haider in connection with national socialism .
neither is it able to pass judgement on the way a legal institution is run in one of the member states .
mr president , i would thank the french presidency for its succinct answer .
fourteen member states are planning to ask experts from the council of europe to investigate certain states of affairs in austria .
my first question concerns whether the french presidency considers that this request for an investigation should also apply to the pelinka case , which would be only reasonable .
my second question concerns articles 6 and 7 of the treaty , concerning fundamental rights .
there are so-called rules of transmission between parliament and the council , which have prevented these questions from arriving today .
i sincerely hope that , with or without translation , things will be sorted out for future part-sessions .
with regard to the other points you raised , as you have understood , the french presidency intends to observe the measures that have already been decided on by the fourteen .
what is more , i repeat , these measures are of a strictly bilateral nature and do not impact on the fact that austria is a member of the european union , with access to all of its institutions and participating in all of its bodies and , throughout our presidency , will be treated as such .
parliament will consider this issue , but today we are not going to discuss it further , if the members agree .
question no 11 by maj britt theorin ( h-0554 / 00 ) : subject : international criminal court the commission , and particularly the commissioner for humanitarian aid , played an important role in the setting-up of the new , permanent international criminal court ( icc ) in june 1998 .
however , to become a reality , the rome statute must be ratified by 60 states .
i certainly think the eu ought to be leading the way in creating an international legal system and , when the national legal systems do not function , the international community must be ready to take action against the worst offenders .
question no 12 by ( h-0556 / 00 ) : subject : role of the diamond trade in african wars it is a known fact that the violence in both sierra leone and the great lakes region is linked to the monopolies on local mineral deposits and the struggles to gain control of those monopolies .
i believe that the problem relating to the trafficking in diamonds , which has cost , and is costing , many lives , deserves much more decisive and firm attention from the council .
in the case of sierra leone , great britain had supported the embargo , and france as well , to a certain extent .
the council could promote a generalised embargo of all diamonds originating in africa and , above all , the control of certificates .
mr president-in-office of the council , question no 13 is one of six questions which the council will not reply to today because of procedural problems .
as the author is not present , question no 14 lapses .
question no 16 by ( h-0565 / 00 ) : subject : violations of cypriot airspace by turkish fighter-planes cyprus , a country which is due to join the eu within the next few years , is continuously subjected to turkish aggression .
apart from the fact that the turkish army has occupied 37 % of cypriot territory for 26 consecutive years , turkey - a candidate for eu membership - disputes the island 's status as an independent state on an almost daily basis .
the council values the principle of sovereignty highly , and in this case can only reiterate its commitment to resolution 353 of 20 july 1974 of the united nations security council as well as resolution 3212 of the united nations general assembly of 1 november 1974 which requested all states to respect the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus .
the council , which supports the efforts of the united nations secretary general , expects turkey , and other countries , to contribute to the success of these negotiations in order to achieve a just and lasting resolution to the cypriot question .
encouraged by tolerance and compliance on the part of europe and the united states , turkey engaged the other day in a new act of aggressive provocation which could well have been the cause of war between two equally powerful countries .
minister , i understand your unwillingness to give a clear , spontaneous reaction to turkey 's intolerable conduct in cyprus .
your predecessors were equally unwilling to condemn turkey 's conduct in cyprus outright and , i fear , your successors will take the same approach , now that the american- , but not just the american-inspired formula of two sets of rules for and two attitudes towards turkey has been adopted , together with the convenient method of taking refuge in pretexts such as the supposedly clear prospect of settling the cyprus question , which has lasted 26 years now , and the supposedly concomitant need to appease the puppet of ankara , mr denktash .
question no 17 by ( h-0569 / 00 ) : subject : milosevic over the last few days , a number of media have carried reports that one member state of the european union is currently acting as a mediator in an effort to find a ' way out ' from the serious situation in serbia .
since the time allotted to questions to the council has elapsed .
the council ' s budget is eur 6.635 million .
they may be around 45 at first , but that number may later grow to 60 or even 90 .
the draft supplementary and amending budget for the european parliament contains an appropriation of eur 15 million for an additional prepayment for office space in brussels .
this will leave a margin in the financial perspectives of eur 69.1 million .
the committee on budgets transferred eur 38 million of unused funds this year by means of a c6 / 2000 to fund this office space , the spinelli building .
as it is very likely that a considerable portion of the appropriations set aside for members ' regulations , for example , ( which amount to eur 60 million ) , will remain unspent , and as more than half the year has now gone by , this ceiling may be reviewed at the end of the year .
the council ' s budget is interesting , as there are appropriations in it for the first time for a common security and defence policy .
article 28 of the treaty is unclear , particularly regarding a common security , defence and military policy .
this is firstly because during the trialogue , we all agreed that the budget presented should not be limited to merely returning the balances to the member states , but should also include expenditure and constitute a genuine supplementary and amending budget .
in the second place , we have made several decisions that can be viewed in a positive light .
we therefore decided to fund it using the margin which totals 21 million in this heading .
we have had a first reading in the council , this is our first reading , and we should very much like to conclude matters on the basis of this first reading .
in other words , we hope that the council ' s second reading that takes place on 20 july will take up our first reading , if not we shall have to proceed to a second reading .
what is more , i should like to stress another important point in that if we proceed to a second reading , in order to adhere to the strict timetables set , we should have to attend a session in august in order to vote on this sab at second reading , which is obviously out of the question .
it has always been the rule in parliament and the other institutions that august is excluded from the timetables set .
mr president , commissioner , fellow members , it may only be july , but today , the european union and the european parliament come to the member states bearing gifts in the form of a supplementary budget refunding eur 3.2 billion to their original owners .
that was why i voted passionately in favour of this transfer of funds , so that these technical problems can be solved once and for all and nothing more can stand in the way of a successful european security and defence policy .
however , we must find this 20 million by squeezing the margin dry .
mr president , the rapporteur has already explained the sab is asking to approve two separate sums of money .
i would like to raise three issues about this .
secondly , i understand there is a gentlemen 's agreement according to which the european parliament and the council agreed not to interfere with each other 's budget .
thirdly , i am not satisfied with the use of the sab as an instrument for this because these extra needs were foreseen prior to the conclusion of the budgetary process last year and should have been incorporated in this year 's budget .
in accordance with the spirit of the gentlemen 's agreement , i will not comment on the need for 45 military personnel in the building .
the point i wish to raise here is that council must apply the same sort of budgetary rigour to its administrative expenditure as it expects of other institutions .
and i would like some reassurance in the future that this expenditure will be spent in the most efficient and economic way possible .
on parliament 's request for the extra 15 million for the additional advance payment for the new building in brussels , although it can be identified as a prudent step which will allow considerable savings in the future , i am concerned about the messages that this may convey .
the first proposed amending budget relates to the commission 's budget .
while the extra 15 million granted by parliament is to be used to pay off the buildings early , thereby saving interest in the future , the extra council expenditure will give rise to further expenditure in the future because other buildings will be rented in brussels to house sectors such as the security policy .
the funding for the unmik high representative in kosovo and bosnia has been amended and eur 11 million will now be provided .
thank you , commissioner .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
first , the union citizens ' right to freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services has so far only been partially implemented .
the treaty contains rules on transparency and clarity in this respect but it also allows the member states to make their own decision here .
we note that , in the countries in which regulators have been introduced , not only large consumers , but also medium-sized and small consumers can take better part in the market and the conditions for using the grid are clearer .
commissioner , madam vice-president , i have two comments to make on this .
that is an important point in this process .
we hope to discuss with the commission in committee exactly how imports of gas and electricity from the central and eastern european countries are to be dealt with , because we do not want to damage our own gas and electricity market in europe by accepting different safety standards or the wrong competition terms .
finally , in the case of electricity , transmission system operators have formed an association and it was with the help of this association that results were achieved in florence .
since the first directive on its liberalisation was adopted in 1996 , and the second in 1998 , there has been a significant fall in prices , especially in the countries in which those directives have been most strictly applied .
the two directives were very carefully calculated to ensure that there would not be huge and sudden job losses - approximately 250,000 jobs have been lost in this sector , with more to come - and secondly to allow those member states which had invested heavily in , for example , nuclear energy to do some strategic planning and not leave them with too much in the way of stranded costs .
those which delayed were wrong , especially those which at the same time took advantage of the opening of markets elsewhere and we have evidence that this also applies to countries outside the european union .
i have said that the job losses were very considerable .
the question of public service obligations is mentioned several times in the report .
the socialist group has put forward an amendment asking for a framework directive ensuring that in sectors like energy services of general interest are protected .
mr president , commissioner , i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the great care he has taken over this report .
finally , i would like to emphasise that our proposal on laying down a detailed schedule , in the course of which clearly defined goals would need to be accomplished , is important if we are eventually to achieve gradual , yet full , liberalisation of the energy market .
i would also like to emphasise that the concept of public service and of the public good must go hand-in-hand with liberalization .
i am referring to social and environmental concerns which this parliament has always supported but which are not yet sufficiently articulated in the energy sector with reference to the single market .
it is particularly regrettable that liberalization has gone hand-in-hand with a negative impact on energy saving .
i have discussed this with commissioner monti .
he is a powerful commissioner and even he is unwilling to tackle some of the member states head on in this regard .
mr president , this report again demonstrates that liberalisation , the free market and competition are currently seen as the universal panacea to nearly every economic and other problem .
however , the fact that the prices of some other forms of energy have spiralled is passed over in modest silence .
it is hard to over-estimate the importance of this process to the competitiveness of our european economies in the widest sense .
i know that in the short term it may be difficult to prove that but i am quite sure that in the long term this is a vital part of making our economies competitive in the wider world .
i also believe that it is very important for us to distinguish between the processes of market efficiency that liberalization implies and other policy objectives that we may wish to achieve , such as the question of universal supply , such as the aims to reduce co2 and it is very important to keep those two distinct and separate .
personally , when i think in terms of ' energy ' i think of security of supply in the long term , the guarantee of public service missions and the contribution to sustainable and environmentally friendly development .
mr mombaur , unlike you , i do not have blind and absolute confidence in market mechanisms .
this is because , and this is something i should like to stress , public service in energy is a factor in social cohesion , the fight against exclusion , balanced regional development , respect for the environment , security and lastly a prerequisite for national and european independence .
experience in other areas such as telecom shows that member states respond better to this incentive and i hope that the commission will elaborate a specific timetable for liberalization in the months to come .
mr president , the report on the commission ' s second report to the council and the european parliament on progress in liberalising energy markets only takes account of two aspects , namely competition and the deepening of the internal energy market .
in our view , only genuine public and democratic regulation would make it possible to rationalise both the production and use of energy while ensuring respect for the environment and basic equalisation .
this would constitute the first step towards a european public service that met the needs of today ' s users and employees .
when you talk with them about liberalisation , they say , ' we are happy to have liberalisation , but it should be the same for everyone in europe . ' that is just the problem with this issue .
in future work on liberalising the energy market , we shall make sure that energy policy as a whole is involved .
i am thinking here of consumers , the environment , competitiveness , renewable energy sources and the employees .
the commission must take care that the energy market is opened up in a genuine sense and in a spirit of fair play .
the commission must reconsider its position .
hydroelectric power in the nordic countries is an environmentally friendly and natural energy source that can often be produced at a competitive price , as is the case at present , thanks to a good water supply .
mr president , i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on an excellent report .
the liberalisation of energy markets is an essential factor in the development of the economy .
the opening up of the market will lead to reorganisation on a european scale with common rules for all the countries .
i hope that the commission will submit comprehensive proposals to overcome the existing barriers to intracommunity trade and ad hoc measures to deal with the member states which do not apply the directives .
we need to speed up the process of liberalisation in the energy and gas sectors by harmonising the member states ' energy policies .
to support the liberalisation process it will be necessary to introduce a benchmarking process , as we have done in other sectors , with the publishing of a commission half-yearly report on the final price of european union gas and electricity .
i would support the rapporteur in stressing that competition does not prevent member states from imposing public service obligations in the general interest on operators .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mr mombaur ' s report on the state of liberalisation of the energy , electricity and gas markets has the merit of summarising the various commission communications on the issue .
first , the treaties provide for the creation of an internal market in the energy sector , which must be accomplished .
second , the achievement of this aim undoubtedly involves opening up the markets to competition , the process of liberalisation and division into separate activities relating to energy transmission , production and distribution .
the european directive on electricity was therefore adopted rather late by my country and only in its most basic form .
however , the benefits have outweighed the problems encountered .
in any event , the progress made so far - which is very considerable - still seems to me to be insufficient .
we must not create fifteen separate liberalised markets , but one single european liberalised market .
both of these reflect an original institutional approach , since representatives of parliament participate in them .
there is a physical aspect , the capacity for interconnection , which must also be developed and which currently lead to limitations in the development of this single market , both in the electrical sector and in the gas sector .
this aspect will be included in the initiatives which i propose to present to the council and parliament at the end of this year , so that they may be ready in the spring , for the european council , in order to provide more impetus for liberalisation in the areas i have mentioned .
i also wish to say that the aspects relating to safety standards must also be developed soon and i am going to propose to parliament and the council that we hold a debate , not on the nuclear sector , nor on the coal or renewable energy sector , but on the guarantees of the european union ' s energy supply as a whole , when we will be able to consider the different sources of energy and the problems relating to each of them , because nothing is free , everything has its price , its pros and cons .
this is an extremely important european technology , with industrial possibilities beyond our european borders , which we must continue to support .
the directive excludes hydroelectricity from the consideration of subsidies , which means that it is not sustainable .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
the council common position for adopting a european parliament and council directive amending directive 95 / 18 / ec on the licensing of railway undertakings [ 5387 / 1 / 2000 - c5-0176 / 2000 - 1998 / 0266 ( cod ) ] ; ii .
mr president , madam vice-president , ladies and gentlemen , the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism proposes that plenary at last gradually but properly liberalise the railway market , with liberalisation to be completed by the year 2010 .
but parliament will defend the view in the codecision procedure that the positions taken do not go far enough in order to safeguard the long-term future of the railways .
the council wants to move one small step at a time .
we feel that railway undertakings should have access to the entire network of the fifteen member states in five years ' time , for both international and national freight traffic , and by 2010 for international and national passenger traffic .
in order to ensure that railway undertakings in all member states also have real access to local networks in other member states , we feel that there must be a strict , compulsory division between the management of individual networks and the provision of transport services by individual national railway undertakings .
experience over the past 40 years shows that , if infrastructure and operations are not separated , the national railway undertaking always reserves the best lines for itself , thereby denying other railway undertakings effective , non-discriminatory access .
if we adopt the recommendation by the committee on transport by a large majority , we will have a real chance of reaching a compromise with the council during the conciliation procedure which is acceptable to both the council and parliament , which goes beyond the common positions and which enables a real move to be made towards liberalising the railway sector , because we all want to strengthen the railways .
our , or my proposal is that the commission should present a report in a few years ' time and report to parliament on whether or not the principles of free , transparent competition have been contradicted and then we can take another decision .
as to whether passenger traffic between stuttgart and munich should be liberalised : this is a matter which , in my view , should be decided by the german government or the regional government in bavaria and not necessarily at european level .
we , the two rapporteurs , and all the groups in the house are willing to reach a compromise .
the first conclusion concerns the liberalisation of the railways .
the council needs to take serious account of parliament 's views .
mr president , for the railways the status quo is really not an option .
railways in europe are in terminal decline , not least in the rail freight sector .
that is why i broadly support the council position which represents a small but important step towards railway liberalisation .
we have to take into account national differences and indeed , social and employment concerns .
broadly , the council position has struck the right balance on the charging , licensing , access and separation issues .
secondly , we hope that the deletion of article 12 , led by the liberals in committee , which could deprive citizens and consumers of network benefits and deprive disabled people of access , can be reinserted into the text .
in my opinion , we need to go further than the council stated in its common position .
we must also take the next steps , namely implement full liberalisation with regard to the transport of goods by 2005 and take the same step for the transport of passengers nationally and internationally in the longer term , this time by 2010 , a deadline which is ten years away .
secondly , who can apply for a licence ?
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i have to admit that within my group there are two arguments being disputed in relation to the community railways .
in my view , the present state of the railways in the various member states does not make it viable to open them up to competition .
they are all in need of considerable modernisation in order to offer identical conditions of competition .
the disaster in great britain is still fresh in our minds and continues to warrant examination of rail safety requirements .
the compromise reached on 10 december by the transport council marked a step in the right direction .
mr president , rail transport is very important in terms of citizens ' mobility , the development of trade within europe and in terms of the environment and regional planning .
the european parliament has already paved the way for the liberalisation of international freight transport at its first reading , by granting authorised applicants track access rights .
it would also mean the complete opening up of international and national freight transport and , by 2010 , of passenger transport .
if the proposals from this second reading are adopted , they would be considered as a real provocation by all involved in the sector .
mr president , commissioner , the council ' s common positions within the framework of the railway package are not so much unexpected as they are disappointing in part .
finally , this sector would also benefit from transparency and decisiveness .
mr president , i understand the ideal contained in this report to complete the internal market in the railway sector , thereby allowing freight transport by rail to compete successfully with freight transportation by road .
this is necessary for the long-term survival of the european railway sector and all member states would be in agreement with this goal .
it is our task to reach agreement on how best to achieve this , bearing in mind the difficulties involved for some member states .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the european transport situation can be summed up using several pertinent figures .
between 1990 and 1997 the volume of transport of goods increased by 21 % whilst over the same period the proportion of freight transported by rail dropped by 7 % .
during the same period , passenger transport increased by 15 % and rail transport by only 3 % .
on the other hand , it is wholly unacceptable and , what is more , contradicts parliament ' s first reading , for us to take advantage of this second reading - as the jarzembowski report suggests - to announce measures to open up all networks to competition and others designed for the widespread privatisation of such networks at national and local level , as that stems from a dogma , an untested belief in the superiority of a market model that has clearly demonstrated its limitations in the united kingdom .
everyone here is aware that rail integration in europe cannot be reduced to a theological debate on the comparative merits of controlled liberalisation and uncontrolled privatisation .
railways , which only receive 25 % of the investment allocated to transport infrastructure in europe , as opposed to the 65 % allocated to roads , are in need of substantial investment in order to enhance interoperability , reduce bottlenecks , extend networks and integrated transport systems , etc .
the united kingdom has demonstrated to what extent privatisation can represent a step backwards .
in any liberalisation process it is very important to ensure that certain standards are maintained , for example those relating to the safety of both workers and consumers .
at the same time we need to prevent artificial barriers being put in the way of the opening up of markets .
we are all aware that many european countries were not able to take part in the industrial revolution of the 19th century at the right time , precisely because they lacked adequate rail connections .
rail networks must therefore continue to provide a guaranteed public service in all europe ' s regions , particularly the more remote ones .
this attack is mainly aimed at postal services , rail and the energy sector , companies which have the potential to demonstrate that we can organise our economy in a more democratic , environmentally-friendly and less profit-oriented manner .
the rapporteur considers the rail industry as an irritating state monopoly with difficult and demanding trade unions in tow .
instead of focusing his attention on stepping up cooperation between the existing railway companies and enhancing the democratic say over these companies , so that benefits of the rail industry can be better enjoyed on a european scale and liabilities can be eliminated more effectively , he puts all his hope in competition and liberalisation .
this company was established in 1939 and is an amalgamation of old private railway companies which operated inefficiently .
in percentage terms , the train has lost a considerable share in the transport market and it is difficult to detect any movement within european rail .
due to a lack of competition as a result of excessive protectionist behaviour on the part of the member states , the train has been relegated to the second division in this century too .
safety takes absolute priority and cannot be monitored by the transport companies themselves .
a second key element is the opening up of the railway infrastructure or , in other words , a liberalisation of the market , which is different from privatisation .
only when railway networks open up once and for all will railway undertakings and their employees have a chance .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , without doubt , the european railways need reviving and that is precisely what the legislative package under discussion is attempting to do .
of course we are on the right track and of course we understand the problems facing certain member states in directly , or almost directly adopting all the new measures proposed .
mr president , commissioner , fellow members , when you receive a lot of letters from people you do not know , it may be for one of two reasons .
our present railway system is a far cry from what we desperately need in europe , namely an efficient system which is also an acceptable system .
telecommunications traffic has demonstrated that , the electricity sector and numerous other sectors besides have demonstrated that .
mr president , commissioner , honourable members , the overall objective of the railway package under discussion here today is fast liberalisation of the european railways .
as you know , we in the ppe are calling for this in all areas needed to complete the single market , wherever healthy competition can replace hand-me-down monopolies .
i am not mathematically gifted , but i see a dramatic difference in favour of road transport , whose share is more than 95 % .
i am delighted that parliament is standing firmly by its convictions in this area , especially with regard to the full realisation of a railway transport market .
i would like to say that what is clear to most of us is that things cannot continue as they are : with closed public systems , which are national , confined within national borders , which are leading to a situation where the railway , day after day , is losing its share of the market in goods transport and in the transportation of persons as well , with the exception of a very specific form of transport , that is , high speed trains and suburban trains .
i would like to say that next year i am prepared to present an additional step , a different initiative , which may be accepted or rejected , both by the council or by parliament , when the time comes , and modified in its various fields , and which will also deal with certain aspects , at least with regard to the transportation of persons or , possibly , the transport of goods internally within the different countries , but which will be separate from the current package , on which we have reached a fundamental compromise - i insist - with the council .
before thanking the two rapporteurs on their work once again , which i know has been very complex - i fully appreciate this - but which i believe has been very important , and before commenting on all the amendments one by one , i would ask the rapporteurs and parliament as a whole for a degree of flexibility , so that in the end we may achieve a conciliation - since i fear that we will have to go to conciliation , the way things are going - which will allow us to move forward with this package which has a key role to play in the future of the railway .
turning specifically to each of the reports , after these general comments , and perhaps in order to clarify and not to prolong this debate any further , i would like to refer to amendments relating to the directive amending directive 91 / 440 / eec , whose rapporteur is mr jarzembowski .
on the other hand , i must reject - although i insist that i agree fully with many of them , but cannot accept them - amendments nos 1 , 2 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 10 , 12 , 15 , 16 , 18 , 19 , 22 , 23 , 25 , 26 and 27 .
amendments nos 6 , 8 , 9 and 11 , which propose the separation of the operators of infrastructures from the providers of services , clarify the text enormously .
i would like to say that , although i would perhaps have preferred other proposals , the commission accepts amendments nos 4 , 6 , 8 , 12 , 13 , 15 , 16 , 19 and 20 ; but we cannot accept amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 14 , 17 , 21 , 22 and 23 .
mr president , i would once again like to thank the two rapporteurs for their work and ask for flexibility , from them and from parliament , so that in the end we may achieve a result , which must also be supplemented by the other directive , which involves the interoperability of the systems themselves , which would be a great step forward .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
what we are talking about here is , as it were , a ceterum censeo , which needs to be the subject of debate here in the house for all directives .
the committee on legal affairs therefore sets great store by the following conclusion : first , that specialists should also keep up with general practice while training as specialists .
differential diagnostics continue to change , which is why specialist training must also include general practice .
secondly : we are calling , by a large majority , for specialist training to be increased from at least two to at least three years in order to take account of a broad trend within the european union .
two other amendments have been proposed concerning irish architects .
the ppe-de group - my group - intends to withdraw its amendment here .
the mechanics needed to achieve this change are very extensive , as can be seen from even the most cursory examination of lord cockfield 's 1992 programme , one of the most revolutionary , yet on the face of it unexciting programmes of the post-war world .
within that framework there is clearly a choice of instruments for putting the single market in place which can be described as the choice between harmonization and mutual recognition .
in my view systems of mutual recognition are more attractive .
the insensitive imposition of harmonization has caused untold political damage to the european political enterprise and had the single market been based more on mutual recognition and less on harmonization europe 's political condition would be much less febrile than it is today .
finally , and more generally , i would like to reiterate the rapporteur 's general conclusion that this is all far too difficult and complicated for anyone other than an expert or a lawyer and every effort must be made to simplify the law and make it more user-friendly so that the single market is understood by all our citizens .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , anyone who takes europe seriously wants to provide a good future for young people in the european union .
this includes , most importantly , ensuring that young people can develop their skills and talent in any place of their choice in any country in the union , irrespective of where they are from and where they trained .
anyone who has learned something at one end of the union should be able to pursue his or her career in a country in the middle or at the other end of the union .
thanks to the excellent work by the rapporteur , mr wieland , the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has had no trouble highlighting a few important points in the directive before us today .
thank you for listening .
mr president , my task is also on behalf of my group , to welcome amendments nos 1 to 11 and the spirit in which they were moved by my friend , mr wieland .
these are important points although they are not controversial among us .
it is also important as a purely linguistic matter to make sure that gleichwertig is translated as " equivalent " and its equivalent words in other european languages .
i conclude by taking up the point that nothing is more important than that the laws of the european union should be understandable to its citizens .
however , at the end of the day , the only people to pay the price for this situation are the citizens , especially young people who may well have invested time and energy in the certainty of obtaining results and official recognition and feel betrayed by the institutions .
and the situation is all the more serious if we consider the unemployment levels in europe .
i belong to the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport which , once again , has not been asked to speak on an issue which not only involves legal questions , but should also be subject to consensus in other respects .
the complexity which exists in europe in relation to the recognition of qualifications gives rise to documents such as this , which , despite the efforts of parliament and the commission itself , is a real ' collage ' .
we talk of the europe of research and a europe of knowledge and then we do not recognise , out of pure fear or pure vested interests , anything that people do outside of their own countries .
therefore , i wish now to ask that we question this directive , so that the recognition of the medical qualifications may be extended to many other qualifications , because it seems to me to be truly unjust that this is not the case , and that a country is unable to pass on what it knows to another country .
therefore , as representative of the culture committee in this case , i ask that this recognition be extended and that the road be opened to greater recognition of equivalence .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i generally welcome any measure or any directive to improve the mutual recognition of professional or academic qualifications .
the eu treaty clearly regulates the freedom of movement and the freedom to establish of people in the eu .
procedures for recognising diplomas acquired in third countries must also be simplified .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , this evening i should simply like to welcome the initiative aimed at simplifying and clarifying the directives relating to the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications .
this is the case for amendments nos 4 , 5 , 6 and 11 , amendments which the commission welcomes .
moreover , the commission has taken note of the requests made in amendments nos 1 and 2 to codify the directive on " recognition of professional qualifications " and to re-examine the problem of recognition of formal qualifications acquired in third countries .
regarding medical training , which forms the subject of amendments nos 3 and 7 to 10 , the commission shares parliament ' s view that on the one hand , this is a matter of great importance which requires further attention but on the other hand , these amendments only contain a few isolated proposals which require a more general analysis before they can be examined and approved .
the council and commission have already explained why this amendment cannot be adopted , namely because this issue is a purely internal affair .
this concludes my response .
i thank you for the opportunity you have given me to expand on this matter .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.40 p.m. )
the minutes state , on page 14 , in the greek version at least : " question 16 by mr iarinos : violations of cypriot airspace by turkish fighter-planes .
mr zacharakis , we will not be holding the political debate on this issue here .
mr president , i wish to raise once again the point i raised on monday and again yesterday with regard to mr helmer 's comments in this house .
mr president , i wanted to bring up an issue which should be of great concern to this parliament , and in particular to members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on budgetary control .
a serious abuse of european law and the statute of the european investment bank is taking place in my own country .
the situation in ireland is quite contrary to this principle .
the irish government have , in contravention of the law , nominated a person who not only has no experience of economic or financial affairs , but is furthermore a disgraced supreme court judge who was forced to resign before he was impeached by the irish parliament .
this is an extremely important matter for this parliament , which is concerned because the european union provides guarantee funds to the eib .
parliament must take notice of this , because if we allow member states to contravene the law in this way it has serious implications for the european union as a whole .
i would ask the president if he could instruct the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on budgetary control to look into this issue , because it should be dealt with very quickly .
it could set a very bad precedent for the future for other member states and for nominations to this body .
mr president , i would like to put a question to parliament .
these fires represent a considerable hazard , damaging the forest stand and the environment throughout the european union , but , most importantly , the economic effect on our endeavours to boost employment in the tourism industry in all the countries of the mediterranean area will be extremely serious .
during this period the euro system , that is the 11 national central banks and the ecb , had to prove its ability to implement the conceptual framework that had been thoroughly prepared during the previous years .
looking back , these challenges have been met from both a policy and an operational point of view .
therefore i have great pleasure today in presenting the second annual report of the ecb .
it gives an account of the activities of the euro system during 1999 and at the beginning of this year .
in addition to this regular dialogue , other members of the executive board of the ecb have attended committee meetings on several occasions in order to present a report drawn up under the responsibility of the ecb and to participate in exchanges of views on various issues .
in view of the large range of topics included in the annual report it will clearly be impossible to address all of them at our meeting today .
therefore i shall concentrate on some of the most pertinent issues , which have also been raised in the resolution drafted by your committee on economic and monetary affairs .
reviewing the first year of the existence of the single currency , i should like to start by reporting that the primary objective of the ecb , that is the maintenance of price stability , has been achieved .
indeed , with consumer prices in the euro area increasing by just 1.1 % in 1999 , inflation has reached one of the lowest levels in the past 50 years .
in line with its mandate , the ecb remains vigilant regarding risks to price stability , as evidenced by its monetary policy decisions in order to nip inflationary pressures in the bud before they materialise rather than to react once price stability is already in jeopardy .
the euro system will continue to pursue this forward-looking strategy in order to maintain an environment of stable prices , which is also conducive to sustained economic growth and job creation in the euro area .
i share the analysis of your motion for a resolution that governments should take advantage of the favourable economic environment in order to step up the efforts directed towards consolidating budgets and reducing public debt and go beyond the objectives laid down in the stability programmes .
at the same time , structural reforms in the labour product and capital markets should be pursued vigorously .
i should therefore like to comment on the possible emergence of a new economy in the euro area .
in my view , the most useful definition is that which characterises the new economy as a phenomenon which increases the growth rate of productivity over an extended period of time .
of course , there is a need to monitor developments further , with the emphasis on identifying new economic trends and potential structural breaks in traditional economic relationships as early as possible .
in any case it is important to stress that for the euro area the achievement of more flexible markets is a prerequisite if the potential gains from new technologies are to be realised in the form of substantially higher productivity growth .
in this respect , the euro systems monetary policy framework is well equipped to cope with such uncertainties .
by relying on two pillars , the ecb strategy explicitly acknowledges uncertainty regarding the structure of the economy and the transmission of monetary policy within the economy .
in the context of this discussion , some observers have urged the ecb to keep interest rates low in view of the new economy .
an inappropriately lax monetary policy would not create better conditions for the emergence of a new economy .
on the contrary , by jeopardising the maintenance of price stability , such a policy could seriously endanger the current ability of the ecb .
it would thereby undermine confidence , raise risk premia in interest rates and damage the prospects for economic growth and job creation .
it is for precisely this reason that the ecb will , in line with its mandate , continue to preserve price stability in the euro area .
i should now like to turn to another issue , which has been frequently discussed within the framework of our regular dialogue , namely the issue of transparency .
we always take our decisions from a euro area-wide perspective .
the publication of ecb reports on the economic developments of individual euro area member states , as is suggested in your motion for a resolution , has to be considered against this background .
i still envisage that publication of forecasts will commence towards the end of 2000 , in line with the statement i made last september at the european parliament 's plenary session on the previous ecb annual report .
forecast publication by the ecb should not be viewed as a panacea which will meet all the communication challenges faced by the ecb as a new institution in a testing multilingual and multinational environment .
it is the comprehensive analysis of the monetary and macroeconomic situation and the economic disturbances affecting the euro area economy which is the relevant input to forward-looking policy decisions .
i now turn to a related issue , namely the publication of the ecb 's economic and econometric models .
through this and other channels there is a professional dialogue and exchange of views between ecb staff and many outside experts , which is of mutual benefit .
for example , an econometric study of the demand for m3 in the euro area , conducted by ecb staff , was published in september 1999 .
an area-wide model used at the ecb , which models the aggregate behaviour of the euro area economy , will be published in this working paper series by ecb staff , probably at the end of this year or early next year .
the banking supervision committee also provides the forum for the exchange of relevant information between the euro system and the supervisory authorities .
finally , this committee may also act as a forum for supervisory cooperation not related to the tasks of the eurosystem .
the need for multilateral cooperation amongst banking supervisors has increased since the establishment of economic and monetary union , for two reasons .
against this background i perceive the banking supervision committee as the main forum in which multilateral cooperation amongst banking supervisors can be enhanced .
regarding the issue of cross-border retail payments , which has been raised by the european parliament on various occasions , i recall that in september 1999 the ecb published a report entitled improving retail cross-border payment systems - the eurosystem 's view .
the report called on the banking sector to provide substantially improved services by 2002 .
since the publication of that report the banking sector has subscribed to the eurosystem 's objectives in principle .
i fully share the european parliament 's concern that very little progress has been visible to customers .
the eurosystem would prefer to maintain its present stance of cooperation but will if necessary step up the pressure on the banking sector .
however , it would be unrealistic to expect the service level for cross-border payments to reach that of domestic payments in all respects by 2002 .
the ecb , as the guardian of the single currency , will continue to pursue its stability-oriented monetary policy in order to fulfil its mandate and to deliver the policy results that european citizens rightly expect .
mr president , mr duisenberg , ladies and gentlemen , the 1999 report before us from the ecb is both the first ecb report for a full year and also the first report since the introduction of the euro .
because of your stability-oriented policy , the countries in the euro area can boast a historically low level of price inflation .
but a young institution like the ecb has to win the confidence not only of the financial markets but also of the public .
at the same time , a low inflation rate is a policy for the economically disadvantaged in our society .
that is why it is important for the ecb to tailor its decisions to primary objectives .
the areas of economic growth and employment are primarily a matter for the member states .
the member states have got to take action themselves here .
another sign in the eyes of the public that the euro is a good thing would be a marked reduction in charges for cross-border payment transactions , which you have already mentioned .
we cannot allow decisions that we have made in the past to keep tying our hands when it comes to the present and future process , over a period of five to ten years .
we must maintain this process - this scope for interpretation .
in conclusion , i would like to thank all my colleagues and the committee secretariat very sincerely for their support with this report .
nonetheless , the central bank 's strategy has not always been completely clear or highly legible .
in fact , there have been a lot of copycat decisions between the european central bank and its big sister , the federal reserve in the united states .
when the federal reserve hikes its base rate by 25 points , the european central bank follows suit ; when the federal reserve adds 50 points , the central bank does likewise a few weeks later .
but the situation in the united states is quite different from the situation in europe and sometimes i get the impression that the european central bank is giving in slightly to market expectations and appeasing the markets with increases of 25 or 50 points and i worry somewhat when i read reports by financial analysts predicting increases of over 100 points by the end of the year .
i want a stronger european economy , not in opposition to , but in cooperation with the monetary fund , on the understanding that each of them retains its freedom of decision and action .
mr president , unfortunately i have run out of time and i would like to have said a great deal more , especially on enlargement .
clearly what matters is internal price stability , and the external value of the euro is of much less significance .
as he said , much of the debate which happens within the council is filtering out in the form of discussion within the monthly bulletin , but this is not the same as a regular report with a formal framework in which it is discussed .
it is also clearly crucial the ecb should look only at the euro zone as a whole in terms of its inflation and price stability objective .
it is essential to point out that different growth trends exist within the different national components of the euro zone economy , and that this implies different sustainable wage growth rates over time .
i very much hope that we will continue to apply the criteria of the treaty , no more and no less .
the group of the greens totally disagrees with the policy of raising interest rates , which has been applied since the end of 1999 .
we are as displeased by the second period of management by the bank , starting in the last quarter of 1999 , as we were satisfied with the first , not because the bank overestimates the importance of variations in exchange rates against the dollar - it does in our view , but that is by the by - but because the debate on exchange rates obviously masks the central bank 's aversion to growth and its serious underestimation of the potential rate of growth of the european union .
yes , there are difficulties with a rate of growth of 3 % but these difficulties imply that there should be more , not less investment and , hence , lower not higher interest rates .
what i would like to stress today is the scandal that is the second part of paragraph 11 of the radwan report .
it was after this law was announced that the toyota factory - and many others - decided to open in france .
the european parliament is the only institution in the community which is entitled to exercise any , albeit ex-post , control over the european central bank and its policy .
from this point of view , the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs does not meet the expectations of the citizens of europe , in that it fully supports the policy of the european system of central banks and , on several counts , is going beyond that policy by calling for even greater liberalisation .
the workers paying the price for this seriously negative neo-liberal policy have no confidence in it , nor do they share the european central bank 's ambition or the support given to its policy by the european parliament , the other institutions of the european union and the governments of the member states .
in this sense , we oppose both the policy of the bank and the support given to it by the european parliament .
alas , mr radwan , you see all the symptoms , but you cannot bring yourself to name the genetic disease afflicting the euro and provoking the scepticism of the markets , which have devalued it by 20 % , indifference on the part of the economic players , who have yet to adopt it , the distrust of the citizens : in the last survey , 41 % of europeans already thought that the euro was a bad thing for them and , admit it , there were signs of panic among the euro supervisory authorities , 18 months before the planned withdrawal of the national currencies .
add to that the increasing hostility of the british and the persistent distrust of the danes , which i hope to see confirmed on 28 september .
conceived in haste by france and germany following german reunification , followed by nine other countries , the so-called single currency was immediately put out for adoption by the political authorities to an independent bank , poor little cosette sent to the tenardiers in frankfurt !
perhaps your euro will rally , mr duisenberg , but it will not be thanks to you .
so , for pity 's sake , between now and then , do not out of wounded pride throttle a european economy which has already paid a heavy price in the chase for the euro in terms of growth and employment throughout the 1990s and which does not want to pay a second , equally heavy price in the chase for a strong euro .
however , we cannot allow this result to distract us from the many storm clouds gathering overhead .
the first issue is public finances : improvement in the relationship between public deficit and gdp , which , in the space of a few years , has fallen to below 2 % in the euro area , disguises the fact that , in many countries , in many instances , this result is due purely to favourable interest rates and to the fact that taxation has risen instead of fallen .
the long-term structural reductions in public spending are of secondary importance and , moreover , the national budgets of many countries remain at around 50 % , which is too high a level to control without risk of adding to the deficit in the event of crises or shocks .
the demagogic generosity of these systems has a very high cost which someone is going to have to pay very soon , and its effects will soon make themselves felt on the stability of the euro .
there is a problem of privatisation and liberalisation in many sectors .
there are countries such as france - large countries therefore - which have put the brakes on with regard to the liberalisation and privatisation chiefly - but not exclusively - of the telecommunications sector .
mandel , one of the forces behind the euro , when speaking of europe a few months ago , said that the governments are making the market too rigid .
instead of expecting central bank policy or taxation policy to resolve some of the problems of the european economy , european policy should resolve the issues it is able to , such as the issue of restructuring and flexibility in the economy and in the labour market , immediately .
furthermore , i share the rapporteur ' s satisfaction in noting that the ecb has stood by its commitment to publish information regularly on the financial variables in its possession , the economic forecasts and the econometric models used as the theoretical basis for the monetary policy it has implemented .
it is important that the principle of transparency is affirmed and it is a good thing that the ecb has set communication standards which could be an excellent point of reference for the activity of the central banks of the individual countries .
however , let us guard against interpreting the principle expressed in article 105 of the treaty too freely , for article 108 reads : " when exercising the powers and carrying out the tasks and duties conferred upon them by this treaty and the statute of the escb , neither the ecb , nor a national central bank , nor any member of their decision-making bodies shall seek or take instructions from community institutions or bodies , ...
or from any other body . " the monetary policy is certainly a lever which is capable of determining a country ' s economic performance , for better or for worse , but it is for this very reason that we must not give the ecb responsibilities which cannot fall within its remit , either under the treaty or in the light of the basic rules of economic policy .
the poor development of the macroeconomic variables in some of the countries of the euro area has been linked , very superficially but incorrectly , to the creation of the single currency : imbalances and unfavourable trends in some countries cannot be blamed upon the euro and still less upon the central bank ' s monetary policy , but they can be attributed to the absence of an unambiguous economic policy in euroland and the lack of structural reforms at the level of the individual national systems .
pages 60 and 61 of the ecb ' s annual report contain a discussion of the situation in denmark in 1999 .
it is pointed out that , in 1999 , the danish krone was stable and marginally stronger than the central rate in erm 2 .
speculation against the danish krone is occurring primarily because danish opinion polls suggest that there may be a ' no ' vote in the forthcoming referendum on 28 september .
if there is , in fact , a ' no ' vote in this referendum - and i very much disagree with my french colleague who has just spoken and who , if i understood him correctly , is hoping for just such a vote - then speculation against the krone may be expected to increase , in which case denmark will have need of that ecb support in defence of the krone which is provided for in the erm 2 agreement .
firstly , what conditions must denmark fulfil before the ecb will intervene in support of the krone ?
mr president , no one denies , mr duisenberg , that you and the european central bank are operating a very competent and successful monetary policy .
the report welcomes the improvement in the ecb ' s information policy .
it is one of the european union ' s most powerful institutions and this complete surrender of policy and democracy to the ecb cannot continue .
there is a second problem that worries me .
this narrowing of monetary and financial policy down to price stability is reflected in paragraph 9 of your report , mr radwan , where the rather revealing wording states that developments in labour markets and social security systems should support the ecb ' s stability policy , rather than the reverse , which would be more appropriate in view of the dramatic problems in these fields .
i hope that it will at last be possible to have a serious and essential debate with you about this trend and about instruments capable of influencing it , such as the tobin tax . ( applause ) mr president , mr duisenberg , ladies and gentlemen , i think that the radwan report is particularly important , because it cannot be read in isolation from the next item about the euro information campaign .
we must not allow information on the technical changeover to be overshadowed by information about the political objectives and the successes achieved so far .
by way of conclusion , i would therefore like to say that the euro , as this report demonstrates , is a project for growth and employment , for a successful single market and for enhancing europe ' s identity .
the euro is a project for price stability and lower inflation rates , for increasing competitiveness and improving public finances , so that we finally put a stop to the process of selling out our future for budget policy reasons .
mr president , the first annual report by the european central bank gives us a chance to thank the executive board of the european central bank for its hard work and to congratulate it on its successful administration in connection with the introduction of the euro .
these people worked extremely hard to attain our common objectives and we should acknowledge that , even if we disagree with them on certain crucial points of the monetary policy which they have applied over the year in question .
but the central bank has no right to publicly present the fight against inflation , which is its obligation under the treaty , when it itself is free to define inflation as it pleases .
mr president , whatever the value of the euro , the primary objective of the european central bank , as you have reminded us , mr duisenberg , is to maintain price stability without worrying about the economic and social consequences which come in the wake of these decisions .
that is why the ecb can increase its interest rates , at the risk of slowing down investment and dampening growth .
according to experts , nearly 950 billion french francs net poured out of the euro zone in 1999 in the form of direct investments abroad , i.e. 43 % more than in 1998 .
in the name of the fight against inflation and strict compliance with the stability pact , it even goes so far as to call the governments of the member states to order , but never has a word to say in criticism of the speculation sweeping the financial markets .
it fans the flames of privatisation in order to boost competitiveness and the return on capital .
it also advocates ' modernising ' social protection and reducing unemployment costs , thus applying the same logic as the agreement in france between employers and two trades union , an agreement which punishes the unemployed and makes them feel guilty .
we must re-open the debate on the remit of the european central bank in order to find a new credit policy which takes account of employment criteria .
the alternative in a truly social europe would be to substitute a growth , employment and training pact for the stability pact .
and if we are to implement this approach , it is vital that we strengthen control of the ecb by the european parliament and the national parliaments .
mr president , when it adopted the radwan report , the majority of the committee on economic and monetary affairs missed a rare and valuable opportunity to draw attention to reasons for the weakness of the euro that cannot be laid at the door of the european central bank .
rigid structures , the slow pace of liberalisation in important sectors of the economy and differences between inflation rates in individual euro member states , which are already a cause for concern , are the reason why the improvement in public finances in many member states is not the result of a sustained reduction in public expenditure and structural reforms , but rather a consequence of low interest rates and a heavier tax burden , which represent a threat to the stability pact .
it would also have been a good thing for this parliament if it had had the courage to recognise in this particular report that the present weakness in the single european currency is chiefly due to a lack of economic flexibility .
this is an unequivocal signal to voters in the euro area to give the all too numerous red-green governments their marching orders , if they ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , mr president of the central bank , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i cannot resist the temptation of replying to astrid lulling .
mr president of the european central bank , as you know , the recent 50-point increase in the base rate which you introduced , following hard on the heels of the increase at the end of april , has incited widespread debate in numerous member states in which growth has resumed ; it is feared that this increase in the base rate will upset this trend , which is essential if we want to resolve the problems facing our fellow citizens .
however , we are delighted at the prospect of a revision in the reference value which allows growth in the money supply to be evaluated .
the lack of any real coordination between our economic policies is the main cause .
it is within this framework that you will manage to strengthen the mutual confidence between governments which is needed if progress is to be made in this direction .
and then , mr president , allow me to question you on one final point .
once again , the figures speak for themselves : as a result of the reduction in working hours , there has been an increase in growth and jobs in the french economy . ( applause ) mr president , the european central bank is just a cog , albeit a highly symbolic cog , in the wheel of policy of all the member states of the union , a policy which promotes the profits of big business , while at the same time imposing what the report euphemistically refers to as a moderate wage policy .
the central bank , which has set itself up as the supreme guardian of this policy , claims to be acting to prevent budgetary deficit and indebtedness in the member states .
the elected members of lutte ouvriere will be voting against this report .
i wish that france and the french members of parliament were as active , for example , in the implementation of the action programme relating to financial services , as they are in promoting the social agenda .
president chirac yesterday emphasised with eloquence the importance of finding the right balance between these two objectives , and i wish you would listen to your president .
the report we are now dealing with also shows that progress was clearly made in this direction last year .
mr duisenberg , the fact that there are many econometric models does not prevent their all being published and made known to parliament also .
mr president , the radwan report has addressed honestly many of the issues which relate to the functioning of the central bank , ranging from prudential banking supervision and the cost of international money transfers on the one hand , to convergence requirements for applicant countries and the role of this parliament in providing the framework for the accountability of the ecb on the other .
the report welcomes the fact the ecb does not interpret its responsibility for stability policy one-sidedly , but that , in addition to inflation , it also monitors deflationary tendencies .
this is also important .
we all value economic and price stability , and the new paradigm in the united states gives us hope that such stability , including a balanced budget over the economic cycle , is consistent with growth and the steady reduction in unemployment .
i believe this is due to the lack of faith in the core euroland countries ' ability to govern and deliver fundamental structural reforms under their current governments , which otmar issing , the bank 's chief economist , has referred to as the serious structural rigidities in europe 's labour markets and pensions systems .
lastly , as a british member , i do not think it is fair that candidate countries should be subject to any stricter application of the maastricht convergence criteria for joining emu than the existing members and , as an out-country member , i urge the commission to consider the flexible european model that we british conservatives have adopted , allowing these countries to opt out of emu in future if they so wish after joining .
i believe that you have achieved the main objective of the european central bank : to maintain price stability .
i would also like to congratulate you on the change of method of adjudication , since the new variable rate system allows more direct control of the monetary aggregate as a result of greater knowledge of the market ' s demand curve and , furthermore , allows for certain signals to be sent to the markets on monetary policy .
we have seen the external value of the euro plummet .
there are many reasons which have been explored today , but a big reason is that the markets do not believe in a currency without a country .
too often in the past they have been told that changes in europe are technical .
there has been much debate in recent months about the strength or otherwise of the currency and i would like to pose a very simple question to the detractors of emu .
if the single currency is not working , why are so many countries seeking to join the new structure ?
i welcome the decision to allow greece full participation within the single currency .
in the scandinavian countries support for the single currency is rising .
fortunately we can draw on our experience of a change of currency in 1972 , when we broke with sterling .
mrs beres has asked a very precise question , about which i would like to say the following .
in the past twenty-five years the average growth rate for real gdp in the euro area has been between 2 and 2.5 % per year .
we are now entering the best period that europe has had in a long time , in decades , i might say .
unemployment will fall over the next two years .
not by very much , admittedly - there is nothing monetary policy can do to accelerate the process - but unemployment is coming down very gradually and will continue to do so .
if , as well all expect and hope , greece joins emu on 1 january next year , only denmark will be a member of the erm .
the question was asked what will the ecb do if that creates problems for denmark ?
i have already alluded in my introduction to the question of transparency and the summary minutes asked for in the motion for a resolution .
a week later the entire statement is produced again in a more final form .
the editorial in the monthly bulletin gives all the information that could be found in summary minutes of the meeting .
thank you , mr duisenberg .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m .
implementation of emu the next item is the report ( a5-0170 / 2000 ) by mr karas , on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , on the commission communication on communications strategy in the last phases of the completion of emu .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , 500 days from now euro banknotes and coins will come into circulation .
this will be the final stage of the first currency changeover on this scale in the history of our continent .
both large and small companies will have to adapt and change over their accounts and computer systems to the new currency , which will involve substantial preparatory work .
smes need to tackle their technical changeover as quickly as possible , and in doing so also to give some thought to the strategic consequences of a market notable for price transparency and increased competition .
secondly , there is the public at large , which includes all the target groups and more besides .
we have a very specific proposal , which is not only to change over all school books as soon as possible , but also to organise painting , drawing , essay-writing and public speaking competitions on the subject of ' changing to the euro ' , which is a defining topic for europe ' s identity .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we all know that the european public ' s need for information is still very great , although monetary union is already in place and euro banknotes and coins will come into circulation before too very long .
the committee on budgets , in common with all members of this house , is very much in agreement with the objectives described in the commission communication on the communication strategy covering the final stages of the completion of emu .
furthermore , enhanced preparation is just as desirable and important for all our citizens and for all consumers .
we therefore wish to stress once again that the decision on the breakdown of appropriations and the guidelines for implementation , including joint actions , is taken on the basis of the opinion given by the interinstitutional working group .
the information must come in cooperation with the member states , but what , in my opinion , is of most importance is that ngos are kept fully aware of what is happening .
it is absolutely essential that cross-border giros and payment transactions are in accordance with the principles of the internal market .
we wish to remind the house that the euro information programme is also , as defined in the budget , a joint european commission and european parliament programme .
if you compare prices in the eleven , that is in euroland , with prices in other countries which have remained outside the eleven , including the united kingdom but also switzerland and norway , where this is particularly apparent , you will see that price levels in euroland , even in the ' rich ' countries , are generally speaking lower than in the other countries .
unfortunately , this seems to apply not only to the public , but also to business .
we really must call on the member states of the european union to invest money , time and human resources in ensuring that the euro is a success .
but we should not forget that the resources for the information campaign are extremely slight and have to be shared out between the member states .
no company introducing an important product would rely on such modest resources to ensure that a product was a success .
we must all do this together , at all levels of the european union !
firstly , i would like to say that our group , as it did in committee , supports the karas report .
to this end , it is very important that a campaign be implemented - and a very good campaign - so that in 2002 the euro may enjoy the degree of confidence and acceptance which we all want .
furthermore , as has been said , there is a great delay in terms of the number of countries and companies prepared for its use and in terms of our citizens ' level of knowledge .
in this respect i would like very briefly to highlight three dimensions .
i would like to know commissioner solbes ' opinion with regard to participation at this level , which mr von wogau has also requested .
secondly , this decentralisation must also take place at company and industry level and not be limited to the headquarters of managerial or union organisations .
mr president , i welcome this opportunity to give a view from the outside , from scotland , for the time being part of the uk , where our diet of information about the euro is dominated by a rather lukewarm and unconvincing approach on the part of the labour government and an almost hysterically anti-euro rhetoric on the part of the conservatives .
in contrast my party - the scottish national party - recently reaffirmed our position of support in principle for entry to the euro currency and we are not afraid to promote that view .
but in particular i welcome the fact that this strategy also addresses those member states not yet taking part in monetary union , since of course we will be affected whether we join in or remain out .
i call on the uk and scottish governments to play a full part in that campaign .
mr president , there are three countries outside emu .
two of these countries , england and denmark , have had the good sense not to take part in the euro information campaign .
this means that the euro information campaign will not be a normal information campaign as it is in other countries , but a sort of persuasion campaign and the beginning of the fight between those that are for and those that are against in the referendum .
i am glad that no money from the campaign is formally being used for propaganda in the danish debate .
if i say this , it is because , as is well known , we are holding a referendum in denmark on 28 september on joining the euro , and it goes without saying that it is the public debate which forms the basis for this .
one positive point is that small and medium-sized enterprises have been identified as a very important target group , as this group is one where there could be considerable problems at the changeover stage .
after all , the hallmark of sound information is that it is tailored to the specific circumstances of those involved , and people and companies have a great deal more faith in their own associations and organisations than they do in public institutions .
although we have repeatedly stated that the euro has , since january 1999 , been the official currency of 11 eu member states , which greece and possibly denmark will join at the start of next year , and that the national currencies are just multiples and fractions of the euro , the fact of the matter is that the majority of europeans do not believe that escudos , pesetas , francs and marks are not still their official currency , because that is what they have in their pockets .
as i see it , information campaigns on the euro need to focus on precisely these two aspects : first , the value of the euro , its appearance and the way we use it as a currency , and , second , its potential and effectiveness in terms of monetary stability in the european union , the level of growth achieved - the highest in recent decades - and in terms of controlling inflation and creating employment .
it is essential to effectively coordinate the resources available so as to reach the target groups , and for us to be certain that there are no errors of the kind already identified in documents which the commission has widely distributed in portuguese schools .
and this is what the citizens of europe are waiting for .
mr president , on behalf of my group , i should like to express our surprise at the fact that a particularly extensive and sometimes even extremely complex resolution should have ensued from a relatively simple matter .
it is extremely regrettable that this enormous political error is detected to a far lesser extent by this house than the errors of liability on the part of commercial banks in the course of foreign exchange transactions .
true , some british newspapers declare that we already know all the facts , but the recent announcement of the merger between the frankfurt and london stock exchanges left many british newspaper editors spectacularly exposed on the simple issue of which currency would be used for the exchange denomination .
more than two-thirds of uk businesses are unaware of the practical implications of the introduction of the euro , even for those countries outside the euro zone .
but there is reason to believe that this campaign goes well beyond the provision of practical information .
but i personally fail to recognise this historic success over the last six months , and the astonishing suggestion that the euro has proved a stabilising factor in the face of international monetary crises .
therefore , the committee on budgets is nevertheless lending its support for funds to be freed up so that the danube commission can begin its work as soon as possible .
as regards the provision of this eur 22 million , the commission has suggested that 7.5 million be taken from phare , 7.5 million from ispa and 7 million from obnova .
so my reply is ' yes ' . ( parliament approved the commission proposal ) proposal for a council decision concerning the conclusion of an agreement between the community and cyprus establishing cooperation in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises within the framework of the third multiannual programme for small and medium-sized enterprises ( sme ) in the european union ( 1997-2000 ) ( com ( 2000 ) 242 - c5-0324 / 2000 - 2000 / 0099 ( cns ) ) ( committee on industry , external trade , research and energy ) madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the proposal presented by the council here is one which has our support , although it has one serious flaw .
according to article 14 of this proposal , and this was also discussed in the committee responsible , the documents are to be available in all 11 official languages of the european union , but not the second official language of the republic of cyprus , that is turkish .
this has also been the case this time .
it is the same procedure as applies in connection with the ombudsman .
the framework agreement also contravenes our own rules of procedure .
article 64 requires express equality between the council and parliament in the legislative procedure when the commission transfers documents .
that was something all the group chairmen agreed about when we began negotiations with the commission .
madam president , my group supports mr bonde ' s proposal for deferment , although this agreement undeniably contains some very worthwhile improvements to parliament ' s rights regarding , for example , talks on international agreements and its participation in the intergovernmental conference .
however , we cannot accept the way in which the council has interfered in relations between the commission and parliament now that the talks are over .
madam president , i will have the opportunity later to speak on behalf of my group .
my group called for this framework agreement , and it is very much committed to it .
relations between the commission and the european parliament will be put on a very firm and clear footing , and it is our common goal to support the building of europe .
the commission is the executive , we together with the council are the legislative , and this framework agreement will create means for the european parliament to exercise its parliamentary control function more effectively .
this framework agreement is based on the principles of parliamentarism , democracy and transparency .
however , taken as a whole , this agreement does represent progress , and i would sincerely like to thank everyone involved in it - you , madam president , vice-president loyola de palacio , the president of the commission , mr prodi , and also the political group leaders , who showed great commitment in their work on it .
the group of the european people 's party ( christian democrats ) and the european democrats will be unanimously voting for this agreement .
madam president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to express , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , our favourable view of the approval of this framework agreement , on the basis of the principles debated this very week - yesterday , in fact - when we took the view that we were carrying out european construction amongst all of us and fundamentally , as far as we are concerned , with the commission , based on the principles of democracy , transparency and responsibility .
parliament is more powerful and must therefore act more responsibly .
in this respect , we believe that we have taken an important step .
the negotiation has been very long .
i would like to end by making a last observation to the council , which has not taken part in this negotiation .
it would perhaps be a good thing if the council were also in a position and willing to adopt a standard of good conduct with parliament in the budgetary field and in the political field .
madam president , i believe the document that is before us today is a very significant document .
but in the large majority of cases , there is no near equivalent and that is a significant element in this document .
secondly , we had a major debate in this house last year that centred among other things on the question of commissioners accepting individual and personal responsibility for the exercise of their high office .
article 1.4 in annex 3 regulates which persons or bodies within this house may request of the commission access to confidential documents .
we have brought the document as far as we can with the commission , but i would say that , if we vote for it today , you must immediately instruct our committee on constitutional affairs to take up the question of delineating the rules in the house that will make it easier for rapporteurs to make requests either of their chairmen or of the other bodies named in this document .
this we regard as a genuine step forward , and the same is true of the fact that the commission is promising to do its best to keep the european parliament informed on the intergovernmental conference .
my group is very concerned about the developments that are under way in the council .
we hope and demand that the council gives a public and open explanation about whether in future it intends to respect relations between parliament and the commission , or whether it intends to interfere in them in the future .
the council particularly seems to be aiming for secrecy in the matter of security and defence policy , and it would appear that not just the european parliament - and via it , the public - will suffer from this attempt at secrecy , which entered the arena after these talks on agreements , when there was a call to amend the text , but also the european commission will suffer as a result .
however , we assume that this agreement will serve to strengthen the relationship between the commission and the parliament , a relationship based on trust .
you may be sure that if this house approves the framework agreement , members in my group will watch very closely to ensure that it is actually adhered to .
we assume that the agreement stipulated in point 13 will be strictly adhered to , in accordance with which the members of this house will , as the only institution which has democratic legitimacy , be the first to be provided with information - and i mean all information - as only in that way can we exercise our mandate as the public expects of us .
i therefore hope that this point 18 , which relates to the exceptional provision of point 13 , will never need to be applied .
furthermore , given that the common security and defence policy is referred to here , at a time when we are aware that europe is involved in establishing emergency armed forces for military intervention , this really does not bode well .
one final comment : we all heard president chirac address this house yesterday .
i believe that we will all be paying very close attention to what happens during the french presidency and to whether the council operates in a more transparent and democratic way in future .
president , it is appropriate to reflect for a moment on how this interinstitutional agreement comes to be before us today for debate .
it is very important that all the eu institutions operate effectively and efficiently and the 370 million citizens of the european union must support and have confidence in the union 's internal legislative processes .
the european council represents the interests of the fifteen governments of the union and has very strong legislative powers .
the negotiations for this framework agreement have been tortuous .
it may not be a perfect document but it is certainly a step forward .
it is more exacting than the agreement that has existed between the two institutions over the past five years .
the two institutions will now agree to extend constructive dialogue and political cooperation , to improve the flow of information and to consult and inform parliament on administrative reform within the commission .
for example , i know that the commission is required to keep parliament informed of the enlargement negotiations to enable it to express its views in good time through appropriate parliamentary procedures .
that is right and proper , in view of the fact that the european parliament has to approve the right of any member state to accede to the union as a new and full member .
the parliament also has the final say as to whether or not international agreements such as the wto talks are approved .
parliament cannot be expected to make important decisions on such matters unless the necessary and appropriate information has been forwarded to the members for their consideration .
that is why the commission must set in train open procedures to transmit up-to-date information on the whole range of regulations , directives and international accords being discussed and enacted by the union .
madam president , on behalf of the italian radical members , i would like to stress that the framework agreement strikes an important balance in relations between our two institutions .
madam president , my group is to vote against the framework agreement .
the commission should also be entitled to have confidential drafts on the table throughout the preparative phase .
in the legislation process , we sit , as we all know , in committees and debate draft bills .
it is a humiliating situation which is completely unacceptable .
and it is as individual meps and rapporteurs that we should have this legal entitlement and not by going down on our knees before the president .
in my opinion , the framework opinion before us today represents a practical , balanced approach to the relationship between our institutions .
the european parliament is an important body .
i am therefore very concerned that these two different inquiries , which may proceed as a result of any votes taken here today , will cause confusion , difficulty and may indeed prejudice the position of the european parliament .
we shall certainly support the conference of presidents ' proposal , but in view of my earlier remarks we should now reconsider this position , or at least be given some assurances about the french authorities ' actions on this matter .
madam president , we have just spoken at length about transparency in relations between the commission and parliament .
consequently , before an important vote such as that which are about to take , we must not be under any illusions as to what is at stake .
it was said that surveillance took place anyway , it was even added , some even said that it was important to have surveillance systems in order to track down serious criminals .
finally , an important distinction needs to be made : echelon is , in fact , a surveillance system which targets not specific communications but all communications and data transfers .
my second comment , madam president , i am sorry , but we have not had a debate in this house .
there are clear amendments on our order paper today which deal with that point .
madam president , i have no intention of opening a debate .
this amendment relates to article 6 ( 3 ) of the 1991 directive which is to be amended and to article 1 ( 5 ) of the present directive , which is to amend the old directive .
i pointed this out during the discussions in the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs , but for some reason this error of translation has still not been rectified .
agreement between the european union and cyprus ( c5-0324 / 2000 ) according to the agreement between the european union and cyprus , the cost of participation in the programme by cypriot undertakings will be covered in full by the republic of cyprus .
in addition , cyprus also covers the cost of its participation in other programmes .
i should also like to point out that the total cost of adapting cyprus to community acquis is put at between 500 and 900 million cyprus pounds , i.e .
obviously economic relations between cyprus and the european union are unfairly stacked against the republic of cyprus and the people of cyprus have nothing to gain from accession , which is why the members of the communist party of greece abstained rather than vote in favour . - ( el ) i should like to use the vote on the agreement between the european union and the republic of cyprus on small and medium-sized enterprises to raise the issue of the new provocative action by the denktash regime in strovilia , where the occupying forces have advanced their position on the green line in an arbitrary act of aggression just a few days before proximity talks are due to start in geneva .
i voted for the motion partly because pensioners and the elderly are among the most frequent victims of this type of forgery - as always the prime targets - in the hope that , when we return to the issue , a decision will , at last , be taken to acknowledge that when a citizen is the victim of a crime the state is liable , albeit indirectly , in the same way as it is at football matches .
i therefore hope that a decision will soon be taken to oblige the state to pay compensation to victims of common crimes , and therefore also to provide compensation for citizens who have been the victims of fraud .
lienemann report ( a5-0172 / 2000 ) mr president , of course i voted for the motion .
article 3 of this measure sets aside eur 300 million to be spent between 2000 and 2004 on the protection of birds in general and certain important species of bird in particular .
i also welcome the fact that the amendments relating to the objectives of the programme have been approved , as has the compromise proposal for a new programme .
but we shall continue to repeat until we are blue in the face that a real european environmental policy can only be applied , or even constructed , with the necessary funds .
the environment will never be taken seriously with a budgetary line of this size , compared with the budgets for agriculture or the structural funds which still often have an adverse impact on the environment .
when the council and the commission start taking environmental policy seriously , the budgetary line which they propose in the general budget will be commensurate with the challenges we have to face .
this applies both to environmental policy projects and to the human resources which the dg for the environment needs in order to implement them .
jarzembowski report ( a5-0173 / 2000 ) mr president , the three key factors which typify the transport of people and goods in terms of competition are price , reliability and speed .
public enterprises started to shape up as private companies , increasingly so , where growth , profit and market value were considered more important than the social consequences of their actions .
whether or not it is judicious to separate infrastructure from the operation of the railway industry is to be decided by the national or regional governments and is not a task of the european union .
and it is certainly not up to the european union to implement forced privatisation of urban or regional transport companies , as is in danger of happening in the short term .
if a clear split is not made between the trains operated by the railway companies on the one hand and the management of railway infrastructure on the other , the objective of this directive will be seriously undermined .
i have therefore rejected the solution opted for in article 6 ( 4 ) of the common position .
mr president , as we were at second reading , i was unable to register my opposition to the swoboda and , more importantly , the jarzembowski report .
parliament , in its perennial quest to go one step further and faster than the commission and the council , has wheeled out its regulating steamroller and wants to put all the networks in one basket .
he goes far beyond what is proposed in the common position presented by the council .
that is why i have not voted in favour of any of his proposed amendments . - ( de ) the completion of the internal market in rail transport is certainly every bit as desirable as it is essential .
however , i believe that this objective can be achieved after a reasonable transitional period , in accordance with the principle of gradual liberalisation , without it necessarily requiring a statutory split between the provision of transport services by train operators on the one hand and infrastructure management on the other .
i cannot therefore support the recommendation for second reading as presented by a majority of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
in my own small country of luxembourg , splitting up the railway company in this way would , for many good reasons , but not least safety , transport quality and railwaymen ' s working conditions , be inappropriate to the point of absurdity .
it is also impossible for me to accept the deletion here at second reading of the provision under which luxembourg , as a member state with a relatively small rail network , does not need to apply the requirement to award the functions determining equitable and non-discriminatory access to infrastructure to an independent body until 31 august 2004 .
article 6 of the directive in fact obliges member states to establish independent bodies performing these tasks .
i believe that the compromise negotiated in the council of ministers on 28 march 2000 is better and much more realistic . - ( fr ) rail transport today stands at the heart of the public service deregulation and liberalisation projects being implemented by the european union .
the approach taken in the jarzembowski report is to bring the management of railway undertakings into line with private sector management as much as possible and to introduce the pressure of competition .
the logic behind the jarzembowski report will inevitably lead to a deterioration in safety standards , poorer quality services , a reduction in services to customers and a loss of social rights for employees .
the uk invented railways , developed them and was the first to privatise them .
we should have acknowledged here that european railway systems are all different , and their diversity merits the derogations proposed .
we should have placed greater emphasis on the introduction of rail regulators , as the uk now has , and less on the ideology of physical separation of infrastructure and operating services .
and we need to be absolutely certain that we have licensing systems which carry obligations , and network benefits for passengers .
he entertains the possibility of authorities offering financial compensation in order to make the use of railways safe for public transport and does not rule out a role for public companies in future .
we support the council ' s common position because it represents a balance which marks a new stage in the opening-up of the rail market , pending the adoption of provisions ensuring balanced competition between and within modes of transport .
the existence of firms which perform the functions of both infrastructure management and railway undertakings at the same time is not a barrier to the opening-up of the market , in that transparent , non-discriminatory procedures are established and monitored by an independent regulator .
what is more , an integrated company is generally in a better position to develop new technologies relating to both the infrastructure management and the railway undertaking .
a railway company whose decisions are oriented towards achieving the best possible technical and economic situation is in a position to implement the necessary innovations rapidly and to assume the responsibility of the investment risks .
the railway system is a technically diversified system which , in any case , whatever the organisational solution adopted , requires substantial coordination .
there is a greater guarantee of safety when the management of the railway system is entrusted to an integrated company for the following reasons : the company controls all the elements of the system and their interaction ; it receives quicker and more detailed feedback regarding events affecting the system ; it gives the authorities the security of there being a single body responsible for the safety of the system .
respect for the principles of fairness and transparency in the allocation of capacity or in pricing is essential , but it cannot just be assumed that the separation system is the best way of ensuring that these principles are respected .
in effect , an integrated company system , a railway authority , as provided for in the common position adopted in march , would be perfectly capable of guaranteeing non-discriminatory network access and guaranteeing fair line prices .
in addition to the contribution of the state supervisory organs which already exist to some extent , more effective and extensive supervision of competition in the european railway transport sector would thus be provided by the railway authority envisaged in the council ' s common position .
the common position represents a delicate balance which supports the principles of liberalisation of the industry while giving due consideration to the particularities of individual member states .
part of this common position includes a complex derogation in respect of ireland , northern ireland and greece as well as further considerations for luxembourg .
in the case of greece and of both parts of the island of ireland there are obvious geographical obstacles to full participation in a single rail market .
the council position is , i believe , in the best interests of both the rail industry and the consumer .
in summary , colleagues , as a member of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism i recognise the desirability of developing a single market in rail-service provision and the potential benefits for the consumer .
the granting of a derogation to the geographically-separated rail networks of ireland , northern ireland and greece does not in any way undermine this principle .
railway transport in france is a precious public service , a real tool for regional planning in the broad sense of the term , above all , from the rural point of view .
the model of the french railways is also a factor in social cohesion .
in fact , it is perfectly normal to maintain services to unprofitable stations by funding them from much more profitable stations .
that is why , as a french member of the edd group , i feel it is important to defend the notion of a public service in this procedure .
to conclude , i would remind you that , as a member for the edd group , i support maintaining employment and social cohesion , especially in rural areas , in order to safeguard activities .
it is even more important to ensure that the public services provided in our villages do not disappear .
if the railways are liberalised , we can kiss rural life goodbye , which is why we are opposed to this blind liberalisation and its consequences . - ( sv ) the present increase in haulage in europe is untenable in the long term .
however , the system that we have in europe today with fifteen separate railway systems makes it impossible for railway traffic to compete on the same terms as road traffic .
therefore , the railways in the eu need to be liberalised and the market for the transportation of goods by rail needs to be opened up .
the members of the swedish social democratic party , pierre schori , anneli hulthen , jan andersson , maj-britt theorin , goran farm and ewa hedkvist petersen would like to stress the following points of view in connection with the consideration of mr jarzembowski 's and mr swoboda 's draft recommendations for second reading .
such a separation must be effected as quickly as possible , as it is a prerequisite for different transport firms being able to compete with each other on the same terms as apply within other forms of transport .
the aim is to create a system of fees that is neutral with regard to competition and does not discriminate against any form of transport .
wieland report ( a5-0174 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the wieland report because there needs to be an increase in professional requirements in the european union .
but in numerous countries , and in france at least , hundreds of foreign doctors working in hospitals are underpaid because their diplomas are not recognised .
this is mainly because it is difficult to identify which department they need to address , but it is also because the staff in these departments have insufficient training to meet their demands .
specifically , the proposal for a directive contains a number of welcome provisions clarifying existing legislation .
a new provision also allows the required two years professional experience to be avoided .
the european parliament proposed numerous other provisions at first reading , mainly seeking to extend the information requirements of the member states .
this obviously requires negotiation and agreement between various architects ' representative bodies in ireland on a registration process .
the agreement bears out existing practice and even limits public access to a certain extent .
a right which all meps still have at present would , on the basis of this decision , soon be limited to a chosen few , whilst at the same time , the list of documents which can only be supplied with the permission of third parties would be extended to include international organisations such as the wto and the world bank .
a government which keeps information from its citizens is unreliable but a government which does not even take its own parliamentarians seriously is not ready for democracy yet .
i fear that this framework agreement will basically perpetuate the policy of inadequate transparency that we have seen in recent years , instead of seizing a genuine opportunity and finally attempting to do justice to our remit by ensuring greater transparency and preventing the commission from continuing to take refuge behind confidential documents .
nevertheless , like 145 other members , especially those who are members of the sos democracy intergroup , i did not vote , for two reasons .
first , annex 3 , which restricts the transmission of confidential information to the european parliament , represents a step backwards in comparison with the current situation .
article 276 of the treaty states that the commission should submit all the necessary information to parliament in connection with the discharge procedure .
according to the framework agreement , it is only the conference of presidents , parliament ' s president and the chairman of the committee on budgetary control who can ask the commission for information .
we consider this agreement to contravene article 276 of the treaty which clearly stipulates that parliament shall have access to the information it requires .
there is no doubt that the commission , as an executive body , is fully within its rights to investigate different points of view and prepare drafts in the form of internal working documents without the obligation to publish them .
the fact that an application to peruse confidential documents has to go through committee chairmen or the president of the european parliament is unacceptable to me .
the ' echelon ' system ( b5-0593 and 0594 / 2000 ) mr president , the european parliament has brought disgrace upon itself today and seriously undermined its own credibility .
and , in order to be really sure that it will be ineffectual , parliament has drowned its mandate in vast questions such as risks from secret services in general to individual rights or the value of the protection offered by coding to the private lives of our citizens .
it has been established from and confirmed by numerous sources that this wholesale bugging of all telephone signals has had considerable economic and commercial repercussions , to the detriment of european companies such as alcatel or airbus , which have lost huge contracts to american multinationals privy to privileged information obtained fraudulently and illegally .
then why accept the echelon system , which makes us dependent and poorer as the result of lost contracts ?
and we , the french members of the front national , the flemish members of the vlaams blok and the italian members of the mse , are alone in defending the need for a committee of inquiry into this global spy system .
we must defend the true europe , the truly european europe ! - ( de ) i am in favour of setting up a genuine committee of inquiry to investigate an infringement of fundamental rights by the echelon interception system .
luckily , we still have sovereign states in europe to defend european interests , states with sovereign justice which can unilaterally open an investigation into the activities of this network , a leftover from the cold war which has now been turned into an industrial spy tool at the expense of certain companies and certain member states in the european union .
i hope that other member states will follow france 's example .
the 1991 directive confined itself to examining money laundering practices with regard to drugs money .
hopefully , the proposals submitted by the rapporteur will open up the possibility of adopting a forceful approach in the fight against organised crime , such as trafficking in people and smuggling , but also fraud and corruption in the art trade .
are the profits amassed by western companies by making children under ten work in poor countries for a pittance clean money ?
this directive was in serious need of revision in order to adapt it to the new international economic and financial climate .
france , which is a key figure in the fight against this scourge , has clearly indicated that it intends to make this issue a priority item on the european union 's working agenda .
just a few figures suffice to substantiate this position .
money laundering accounts for between 2 % and 5 % of the world 's gdp each year .
discussions have been reopened at international level with a view to proposing effective new measures to fight this scourge .
money laundering as defined in the directive should no longer apply solely to the proceeds from drug trafficking , it should also apply to activities linked with organised crime , such as fraud , corruption and any other illegal activity which affects the financial interests of the european communities .
i have therefore voted in favour of this directive , which forms part of the general action plan to fight organised crime .
the great advantage of this directive was that its adoption led to all the member states declaring money laundering an offence subject to criminal prosecution .
we all agree on the need - and parliament has called on several occasions - for a review of the 1991 directive , which already goes much further than the 40 recommendations made by the fatf in 1996 and which has been applied successfully by the member states .
that is why the criminal activities associated with the concept of money laundering need to be very clearly defined , in order to prevent the requirements of the directive from being extended to fraudulent activities in general in relation to money circulating legitimately in the financial system .
those who feel the urge to denounce the black sheep in the fight against money laundering and put pressure on tax havens should go right ahead ; but they should at least exert pressure on those who really baulk at helping in the fight against money laundering and , more importantly , they should refrain from automatically classifying countries which respect banking secrecy as ' turntables for dirty money ' .
the proof is that the russian mafia tried to invest its dirty money in several european financial centres before deciding on new york , which does not recognise banking secrecy .
it is important to emphasise that lawyers must be considered equal to advocates in those countries that do not have the compulsory employment of counsel .
lehne report ( a5-0179 / 2000 ) mr president , i also abstained from the vote on this document on the list of states into which it is permitted to enter with or without a visa , for this is certainly a barrier to the free movement in the european union of citizens resident in other states .
the council of ministers and the commission should make representations to the authorities in the usa , which insist on visas for greek nationals .
no visa is needed for money to enter , irrespective of its origin , but nationals from numerous countries require a visa , even if they are staying for less than three months .
we abstained rather than voting against this report , despite disapproving of the spirit of the report as a whole , solely because , compared with the current situation , it does slightly extend the list of countries with no visa obligation .
the list of countries whose citizens require a visa for entry into the eu contains more than 130 countries .
europe needs to change its attitude to immigration .
haug report ( a5-0184 / 2000 ) mr president , firstly i wish to express my satisfaction with the fact that the entire budget has been tightened up and the increase in appropriations amounts to 1.07 % of total gnp for the member states , while the corresponding figure in the budget for 2000 was 1.11 % .
first , we feel that it fails to make a distinction between the debate on the 2001 budget and the debate on the revision of the financial perspectives , which we refuse to revise .
no french delegation from the european parliament could possibly question the compromise which resulted from the difficult negotiations in march 1999 .
as far as the figures announced by romano prodi last november are concerned , the commission may take them back today , it knows full well that these sums are not , alas , based on an accurate analysis of the region 's needs and , in its own words , it is a ' political ' sum which , by the way , has never been approved either by parliament or , more importantly , by the council .
the fact that we have seen a chronic surplus of over eur 3 billion at the end of the year demonstrates that the sum of appropriations voted for does not correspond to real needs , whilst it is possible to make substantial savings as the result of the patent under-implementation of certain programmes .
although the ceiling is reached if you add market expenditure ( 1a ) , rural development ( 1b ) and pre-accession agricultural expenditure , to accept differentiated appropriations for rural development is to run the risk of having the commission propose substantial commitment appropriations and far fewer payment appropriations , to the detriment of our farmers yet again , and this we cannot accept . - we have voted against point 9 in the haug report , concerning the transfer of funds from the budget for agricultural policy to the reconstruction programme for the western balkans .
in the same way , we reject the cut of eur 300 million for agriculture .
first of all , i wanted to vote against amendment no 11 .
it was purely a mistake that i voted in favour of that amendment , since any amendments to the commission proposal were very bad and endanger the whole procedure of getting the safe harbour agreement enforced .
we have negotiated with our us counterparts for over two years .
i voted against the committee proposal along with other members of my group .
however , we all know that at present data is already being circulated in practice , but in an unregulated way .
so while the safe harbour principle may not be an ideal solution to this problem , it will at least impose a certain number of rules and will be a way of preventing abuse .
that said , i still subscribe to the report because , as matters stand , there are no provisions whatsoever for guaranteeing eu data protection standards in the exchange of data with other continents .
personal data on eu citizens is already circulating in third countries , without any fundamental control ; in fact we barely even know the extent of the arbitrary acts already committed .
knowing as we do from the echelon interception system that every form of democratic control is being flagrantly violated from without or from a distance , knowing that american multinationals are engaged in wholesale monitoring and spying at the expense of european undertakings and the economic , social , political and cultural activities of the member states and the private life of the union citizens as a whole , it is slightly hypocritical of us to approach this huge issue in stockinged feet with our prayer-book in hand .
it is not yet too late , but we must all realise that 2001 will be crucial in our efforts to involve the entire european population in this giant operation .
by means of the amendments which i have tabled and which have also been included in the report , i wanted to underline a number of aspects of this campaign .
in the first instance - and i will not labour the point as it was sufficiently highlighted this morning - the campaign must devote special attention to making young people aware and involve education in the information campaign .
secondly , an information campaign must obviously be tailored to specific target groups , such as the weaker members of society .
commissioner solbes , i must express my approval of this report for i feel that the introduction of the euro is one of the most important , key results of the formation of the european union out of our 15 states .
i believe i can make a small contribution to this effort : i will have posters put up in the areas in italy in which i was a candidate for the elections , calling upon the italian government to raise the minimum pension to eur 500 .
it is a shame that the government will not accept this proposal , but , at least it will serve to teach the italian pensioner citizens the value of the euro .
mr president , as i and many colleagues have argued for some time , the monetary union project is profoundly dangerous .
the proposal before us talks of information on the euro , but we already have all the information we need .
this is not about information , this is about propaganda .
now , if the 12 euro countries wish to undertake a propaganda campaign , that is no business of mine .
but in three countries , denmark , sweden and great britain , the euro decision is not yet made .
i therefore have two demands to make of the commission .
better still , cancel the whole project and put all the funds into a special account to help defray the enormous costs that will be incurred when the euro is eventually dismantled .
firstly , the communication is part of a very complex operation , that is , the introduction of the euro , in the form of coins and notes , on 1 january 2002 .
secondly , in the application of this process of introducing the coins and notes , the principle of subsidiarity plays a fundamental role .
this means that the member states , through their governments and central banks , are fundamental to the whole process and also to the operation of providing information .
our role as commission consists , in some cases , of persuading , in others , of acting and , in the majority of cases , of communicating to the member states ideas which they can or cannot apply , and , in some other cases , of proposing specific actions .
the main concern at the moment is to determine the level of preparation of member states , companies and citizens .
with regard to the member states , i can tell you that next week i will present the commission with a report on the practical application of the euro .
companies are the special objective of the information campaign at the moment .
as for the rest , there is a certain contradiction between this position , which in theory is so favourable to the companies , and the lack of use of the euro in normal operations at the moment .
this is the reason why we believe that we must pay special attention to companies during this period , as well as to citizens .
the commission intends to implement certain specific actions , apart from the july communication , regular reports to ecofin , a proposal on counterfeiting , which will be presented before the end of the year , and also a series of measures necessary for coordination .
i would like to make some comments relating to the various points mentioned in the debate .
on the whole , the proposals in the communication coincide with the proposals which have been made here .
nevertheless , there are certain points which deserve additional comment .
firstly , what action must we take in the ' pre-in ' countries or in third countries ?
two of them , for the moment , denmark and the united kingdom , have not shown any interest in implementing these information campaigns .
your recommendations include many of the actions which , in our opinion , must be asked of the member states and , to this end , we will send a communication to the different countries so that they may take account of them .
i would like to highlight certain very interesting aspects which have been mentioned such as paying special attention to training , schools , women , specific sectors , such as tourism , or the tremendously interesting initiative of the distribution of price tables , or the initial or additional obligations of public administrations .
the commission is absolutely prepared to work with parliament , with the european central bank and with the member states in order to implement a programme which is more efficient , bearing in mind however that , in accordance with the current model , approximately two thirds of the total expenditure of the programme will be met by the member states , according to their specific programmes .
with regard to the possibility of providing more resources or extending the information process , as proposed in the karas report , the commission is in favour of both options .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
a decision in favour of a limited ban on these grounds would not primarily be based on the precautionary principle , but on the routine procedure for dealing with toxic chemical substances .
to ban all of the 350 or so currently known phthalates is to proceed on the assumption that all phthalates are associated with more or less the same risks .
once these phthalates are no longer used in toys , further risk assessments and the proposed review of this directive in two years ' time ought to be sufficient .
as the rapporteur , i share the concerns of the members of parliament in my committee .
we must ensure that they are not exposed to unnecessary and unacceptable health risks and acknowledge the public concern on this issue .
as politicians we need clear advice from scientific committees if we are to make rational judgements , take the necessary risk management measures and produce good legislation .
i believe that this legislation shows us that we need action on a number of areas : ( a ) we urgently need to continue work on migration testing and research into chronic toxicity and the behaviour of children ; ( b ) we need to review and update this legislation periodically and as gaps in knowledge are filled , where necessary add new substances to the ban in the commission 's legislation .
when , in 1998 , reports emerged about the possible harmful effects on children ' s health , the european commission proposed - or tried to propose at any rate - a ban on the application of certain phthalates .
this is not only because there are smaller children who play with toys produced for older children , but also because there are also children in this age group who still suck things .
the amendments before us , which call for a review after two years , for the evaluation of new test methods and for scientific studies on the dangers of pvc products , are helpful in maximising health protection for us all in the long term , not just for small children .
to sum up then , it is for us to decide whether to opt for the precautionary principle and a high degree of protection , or whether we intend to hide behind scientific reports , which can , however , never relieve us of the responsibility of taking the necessary political decisions .
the facts are before us : plasticisers in children ' s toys represent a massive risk for children ' s health and can even be carcinogenic .
i therefore totally fail to comprehend the whole lobbying campaign being mounted by the chemical industry .
it is obvious that children who are only a few years old cannot assimilate a warning text .
the commission 's proposal is also completely insufficient for this .
mr president , this debate again confirms parliament 's commitment to public health and indeed to environmental issues as well , and i welcome the opportunity to make a brief intervention .
it is well known that pvc may present a risk when used in toys for young children .
the proposal to amend the original directive on this matter will ban the marketing of toys and childcare articles containing pvc which are designed to be placed in the mouths of children under the age of three .
every time the european parliament has debated this issue there have been increasing doubts as to the safety of these toys which derive from pvc .
we know that when there is doubt about a particular measure , the european parliament must apply the precautionary principle .
this principle in essence means that safety and health must be put before any conflicting scientific evidence , and i fully support the previous speakers who again referred to the importance of applying the precautionary principle .
although after 40 years of use , no cases of damage to health are known , the seed of suspicion has nonetheless been sown that softeners are harmful .
mr president , mr arvidsson , i fully appreciate the work which you have done on this report .
i would like to concentrate here on the application of the precautionary principle and on the difficulties in this case of dealing with an issue on which scientific considerations are confused and mixed up with emotional considerations , as well as a long history of disagreements between the industry of pvc and its derivatives and the environmental lobby , which , of course , is also deeply involved with this issue of phthalates .
we are talking about risks to children ' s health .
however , we must not forget that we are also talking , with reasonable certainty , about the harmful effects of six phthalates , and also , with a degree of uncertainty , of the other substances belonging to this group .
in this respect , there is one good example : four years ago , given the opinion that silicon implants may be carcinogenic , several countries adopted an alternative substance for their manufacture based on soya oil .
a few days ago the united kingdom banned these implants and is gratuitously withdrawing existing stocks , having discovered that they are carcinogenic .
the social and health cost of a hasty decision may be medically and economically irreparable .
the scientific evidence demanded in amendments nos 11 , 13 and 24 seem to me to be absolutely necessary in any event , but especially in the case of this type of issue where lives are at stake and where we are likely to punish or benefit certain production sectors .
he is in the unusual position of producing a report on commission action which has already been taken and it is the way it has been taken that we are to some extent talking about here .
secondly , on the wider issue of pvcs in general , how soon will we get the kind of migration testing from which phthalates ' safety can be assessed and the review which is called for in one of the amendments ?
on the issue of labelling , i am sorry to see that there are amendments against this .
allowing the sale of objects containing dangerous substances which children will put in their mouths goes completely against the precautionary approach .
in banning some of the objects the commission recognises that these substances are dangerous .
mr president , it is high time that a total ban were introduced on phthalates in all toys for children under three years of age , as is already the case in denmark .
it is quite unacceptable that we can get into a situation in which we are going to reduce the level of safety for our children .
if the precautionary principle is not to be employed in respect of one of the most vulnerable consumer groups - our children - it is very difficult to imagine when , in fact , it is to be employed .
i should like to know why the commission only wants the six phthalates which have been investigated to be banned , instead of them all .
i do not know if mr chirac was familiar with the detail of this report , but in any case he gave us a very clear pointer on how to vote tomorrow .
if we are to take our work at all seriously , then we should invoke the precautionary principle and ban the use of all phthalates as plasticisers .
and i do not mean that in a bilateral sense , but in the framework of the community of fifteen .
how could we allow these six phthalates to be used as plasticisers in pvc without having scientific proof at that time that they were harmless ?
in our private lives , in our own homes , we take all the safety precautions we can in order to take care of our own children .
several speakers here have said that we know that these substances can be hazardous to health .
the commission 's proposal is neither sensible nor sufficient .
i can only imagine a situation at a play school or a nursery school where the nursery teacher has to try to keep a check on which children are under and which are over three years of age as well as which children are allowed to put what in their mouths in accordance with all the experiments the commission is trying to include .
the question on pvc softeners in young children 's chewing toys is : who says there is definitely a risk ?
the answer is mr suresh rastogi , a danish researcher who used the phthalates he happened to have in his laboratory .
of the six named phthalates to be banned as a result , two are used for flooring and cosmetics but not for children 's toys , one is not used at all , one is not made at all , one is not used because of fears it might be carcinogenic ( though on 8 february it was totally cleared by the who ) and that leaves one , dinp that is used to soften pvc in chewing rings and so on .
the cstee met and decided on 25 november .
on 22 november , three days earlier , the commission had imposed a temporary ban , and we have to ask the commission why .
if that cannot be shown clearly , then the legality of the temporary ban can and should be questioned in this case .
phthalates are , of course , a group of chemicals there is every possible reason for being on guard against , not only in connection with toys but also more generally .
i am therefore in favour of banning all phthalates in toys designed for the smallest children .
there are some who have argued that banning the use of phthalates in toys would have an adverse effect upon the plastics industry and upon employment in that industry .
the precautionary principle is very sensibly described in a recent commission paper .
for example , a thousand people a year - no doubt some of them small children - die in england and wales while falling downstairs .
i do hope that does not mean that we are going to see a european union regulation restricting us all to living in bungalows .
this proposal suggests that , on emotive subjects , the commission is prepared to act on the basis of that emotion , without the kind of sensible assessment of risk that we need here , as we do for example on risks in foodstuffs .
there has to be , even with the precautionary principle , a substantial link between the assessment of risk and action by the european union .
yes , eight member states have banned phthalates , but when the commissioner replies , can he tell us whether those eight member states have supplied the commission with the scientific evidence that they based their ban on ?
that might have enabled the commission to bring forward a proposal we could all agree with .
if these are dangerous , then they should all be banned and warnings would then be unnecessary .
the only problem with this is that the action is then quite disproportionate to the risk , and sets a thoroughly bad precedent for future european union action in relation to the chemicals we use .
parliament has even shown a desire to ban all of the nearly 350 phthalates instead of the six proposed by the commission .
however , there is some kind of evidence of the possibility of danger in the case of only two phthalates .
it is excellent that the eu is active in this matter , as seven member states have already introduced national regulations .
the precautionary principle is a very important tool in environmental legislation .
neither is it sufficiently justifiable to resort to the precautionary principle if , for example , some member states have introduced national legislation in this area .
it is at least as important today to make sure we preserve the precautionary principle for future needs as it is to take a decision on the banning of phthalates .
mr president , this commission proposal aims for a long-term ban on the use of phthalates in toys as an emergency measure .
furthermore , the commission proposal is the result of two opinions issued by the scientific committee on toxicity , ecotoxicity and the environment .
it appears that the commission has interpreted these opinions according to criteria which are no doubt very well intentioned , but which can at best be described as hasty , in light of the audience which took place in the environment committee with the scientists responsible for the opinions .
in fact , dehp , the phthalate so far considered the most dangerous to human health , has been declared by the international cancer research association not to be classifiable as a carcinogen in humans .
furthermore , we should bear in mind that , in order to establish the toxicity of any product , the dose and the exposure time of that product must be defined .
furthermore , there has been much less research on the substitutes for phthalates than on the phthalates themselves .
if this ban is adopted - and we can support it , above all if there is a supposed risk to children - we will also support amendments nos 11 , 13 and 24 because the commission should amend this directive in the event that the scientific committee approves the use of methods of measurements for practical purposes .
more research is needed so that the long-term effects on health of the different phthalates can be accounted for thoroughly .
if a good deal of phthalates were banned with no clear justification , the toy industry would seek refuge in other pvc plastic softeners , about whose long-term effects there is even less knowledge than phthalates .
what the toy is used for cannot in itself be a determining factor in deciding which phthalates can be used and which cannot .
it is best if we simply do not buy these products .
mr president , this report requesting banning the use of phthalates in some soft pvc children 's toys is flawed in many ways and rests on a dubious legal basis , given that the chairman of the scientific committee for toxicity , eco-toxicity and the environment , professor bridges , when he appeared before this parliament 's committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy on 23 may , stated : " it is hard to see how it " - the ban - " would come under a scientific interpretation of serious and immediate risk " , which is the required criterion for the ban imposed in december .
the commission seems to have ignored its own scientific committee on the basis that some member states are imposing their own ban .
it is particularly galling that , of the six named phthalates to be banned , five are not even used for children 's toys and only two are suspected on the basis of unreplicated tests on rats .
this whole business contrasts markedly with my request for restrictions to be placed on the use of mobile phones by young children , in a formal question to the commission under the same precautionary principle .
a recent uk government report has recommended restrictions to child use of mobiles as a developing brain is more sensitive to electromagnetic radiation .
therefore i call again on the commission to use the precautionary principle consistently or admit that the whole thing is a politically motivated exercise with powerful commercial interests at play , undermining the precautionary principle and risking turning it into a farce .
the commission 's temporary bans have no legal basis .
the commission may introduce an emergency ban where there is a clear and immediate danger , but no such danger exists with phthalates .
compare and contrast our position on phthalates with our position on tobacco .
tobacco , we are told , kills half a million people each year in the european union but do we ban it ?
honesty and transparency have been sacrificed to expedience .
migration tests for phthalates are currently under development and will probably be available within months .
to be meaningful the precautionary principle should be invoked only when there is a clear and demonstrable risk .
the commission has also made extensive efforts to find a solution to the phthalates ' question .
following discussions about the risks of pvc toys containing phthalates and the opinions of the scientific committee on toxicology , ecotoxicology and environment , the commission took two decisions simultaneously last autumn .
any interventions here actually concern the first decision , not necessarily this proposal for a directive .
the commission 's proposed directive consists of two elements .
the first element is a ban on the use of six phthalates in toys intended to be put in the mouth of small children .
the proposal provides not only for the protection of children 's health , it also addresses an internal market issue .
the proposal is based on the various opinions of the scientific committee , and it is a considered application of the precautionary principle and consequently a proportionate measure .
it introduces a ban for the products which potentially pose the highest risks , that is for the toys intended to put be in the mouth , and a less stringent measure - labelling - for the products not intended for mouthing but where a risk cannot be excluded .
the commission is not able to accept those amendments of parliament which would widen the scope of the proposed ban to cover plasticisers other than the six named phthalates , or to cover other toys than those intended to be put in the mouth .
nor is the commission able to accept the amendments which would extend the scope to cover toys destined for older children .
we think that these various proposals cannot be justified on the basis of the risks either defined in the opinions of the scientific committee or by the application of the precautionary principle .
the commission can accept in principle the amendments which would prohibit the use of perfumes in toys for children under three years containing the six phthalates .
it can also accept amendments which would bring forward the review of the directive and widen the scope of that review .
to summarise our point of view , the commission can accept , at least in principle , amendment nos 2 , 4 , 5 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 18 , 24 and the commission rejects amendment nos 1 , 3 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , revised 17 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 and 25 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
it is already a highly technical and unwieldy system .
the product label will give the consumer rudimentary but crucial and useful information on the meat being purchased .
we now have a situation which i shall explain in simplified terms .
after the first reading in parliament , the council approved a common position .
this common position incorporates most of the amendments made by the european parliament .
the monitoring system has been strengthened .
minced meat is , in any case , already connected to the animal from which it derives with the arrangements which we have in the regulation and the other matters are technical and production matters and we did well not to change the wording of the regulation .
the committee on the environment voted by an adequate majority to insist that the text be amended .
if mr papayannakis wants to express a personal opinion , he should have the freedom to do so .
in the last two lines i expressed my personal opinion , with a great deal of chagrin , so as not to have to take the floor again as a speaker .
for the rest , i should like to assure our chairman that i have a great deal of respect for procedure , perhaps more than many other fellow members , both on this and other matters .
mr president , this legislation on the labelling of beef has two distinct aspects .
in this instance labelling can enable the public to be alerted without inducing panic , and facilitate the tracing back of contaminated beef to the shop , slaughterhouse or farm where the problem started .
secondly , labelling will identify the country or countries of origin of beef .
the bse crisis shone a spotlight on the possible health risks associated with beef .
some countries , like france , have a whole-herd slaughter policy which may reassure consumers , despite its lack of scientific basis and a risk of underreporting .
the united kingdom , on the other hand , which has a higher level of bse incidence at the moment , removes all animals over 30 months from the food chain , as well as adopting a whole raft of other measures .
in fact those in france who have studied the subject in depth may well decide to buy british as the safest and tastiest option .
a bony holstein steer would be in the same category as a champion charolais but that prime animal 's twin sister would be in a different category solely because of its sex .
if france wants to continue with its scheme alone , then i would not want to stand in its way .
we are working on a very tight timescale on this legislation , which is due to come into effect on 1 september .
i do not subscribe to the argument that parliament should abdicate its constitutional right to improve this proposal because others have failed to initiate the legislative process in time .
mr president , this proposal has a long history .
the committee has always kept a clear priority and has insisted upon it both to the council and to the commission : namely to have the sharpest , best-defined route of traceability on safety grounds that we can get for mince as well as other forms of beef .
it was for this reason that it threw out at first reading the superfluous requirements about maturation times , much as chefs might have wanted them , and category of animal , which did nothing for traceability , added cost , and increased the disaffection of many member states and of those who will have to implement this proposal .
the commission knows why .
i urge the house to reaffirm its position at first reading and to exclude a form of compulsory category labelling which is entirely optional for member states , - a form of labelling we should point out which we do not have in detail .
we want the best and most economic route to achieve it and amendments nos 3 and 5 do that .
there is only one way to regain the consumers ' trust and that is by guaranteeing the quality of the products .
after all , in the event of a crisis or scandal , traceability allows you to identify the problem straight away .
in my view , confidence in a product can be instilled by providing the consumer with reliable , but above all comprehensible information on the quality of the product they intend to buy .
the agreement reached by the eu agriculture ministers on a europe-wide beef labelling system was not such a major achievement .
the work in the committee on agriculture and rural development was in fact much more demanding than the result before us .
the content of all the measures approved is to be modified so that proof of meat ' s origin is valid as a guarantee in order to apply environmental control procedures and if necessary impose sanctions .
the community labelling system quite rightly aims to enhance transparency of production and marketing conditions for beef , and in particular to improve certainty as to its origin .
the last 16 years , since the first outbreak of mad cow disease , have demonstrated the importance of production for consumer confidence .
we also need to move quickly and , in the interest of producers and consumers alike , ensure that there are not any legal gaps .
we need to take account of all operators of every size , especially small and medium-sized operators , of whom there is an abundance in this sector , scattered throughout our countries , creating jobs and often using animals or cuts from different origins .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , once again , having done so on 16 december 1999 , we are addressing the problem of identifying cattle and the problem of labelling .
when five german lander wanted to protect their consumers , you instituted infringement proceedings against them .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , some of the amendments tabled water down the substance and the objective of the council ' s proposal for a regulation on beef labelling .
the implementing provisions for this regulation are being enacted under the committee procedure .
that means that tomorrow we will have to vote on a legal text whose precise content is unknown .
even the commission cannot tell us exactly what form these implementing provisions will take .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , may i remind you that we have been talking about beef labelling since 1997 .
but we tried this here in parliament ten years ago , and that is why i want to clearly remind some of you again that labelling has nothing to do with the safety of a product .
the other issue is consumer information and the consumer ' s right to choose .
and when he says that we in this house have brought forward the date it is to come into force .
if the council , in its infinite wisdom , which is often a mystery to me , believes that it has to amend the common position so that it is not the same as the text debated at first reading and the text parliament approved with the commission ' s agreement , and if the council therefore makes a decision at the initiative of one member state and with the somewhat reluctant agreement of other member states , than that really is something new for us !
so my attitude towards the commission , which has otherwise become positively affectionate in recent years , is rather more critical in this respect .
mr president , commissioner , in speaking previously to this house i have pointed out that there is a tension in the proposed regulation between ensuring traceability for public health purposes and providing useful consumer information .
i very much hope that parliament will follow the environment committee 's lead in removing category from the compulsory scheme and that the commission and council too will agree not to impose this additional unnecessary burden on producers and consumers alike .
in previous debates here i have supported the principle of having a clear set of rules for appropriate labelling information on beef and beef products .
of course , we must have clear information permitting full traceability from farm to plate .
there is no doubt or controversy about that , but controversy has surrounded the proposal that category of animal be included .
in judging the value of label information , i believe that its relevance to food safety must be foremost in our minds .
in a recent exchange of views within our political group here in strasbourg , commissioner byrne and his cabinet officials stated quite clearly that there was no food safety benefit arising from the categorisation proposal .
in relation to country or member state of origin , could i ask commissioner fischler to clarify whether , apart from the compulsory information that we are discussing here , information regarding the area of origin , such as scotland or the orkney islands for example , can be displayed prominently on a voluntary basis ?
mr president , commissioner fischler , ladies and gentlemen , in addition to the many negative effects of mad cow disease , one positive effect is the fact that it has induced the european union and the member states to adopt more vigilant , detailed legislation to ensure food safety and protect honest producers in the strategically important beef sector .
although the protection of consumer health is by far the most important criterion , it cannot be our sole objective in establishing an efficient system for the identification and registration of bovine animals during the production and fattening stage and a labelling system based on objective criteria during the marketing stage .
it is important to understand that all initiatives which protect honest european community producers - and they are without a doubt the great majority of producers - need to be promoted .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , beef labelling was actually conceived as a quick way of regaining the public ' s confidence in beef after a string of crises and scandals .
there have been two deadlines , first december 1999 and now the present deadline of 31 august 2000 .
as the proposal before us does not guarantee that , it is not just our right , it is our duty as members of the european parliament to adopt amendments .
when i then hear that in italy , for example , the technical requirements for this system are not even in place yet , and that the same applies in other countries , then i wonder why there is all this rush if the system has not been implemented anyway .
i believe that you can achieve implementation of this regulation by 1 september if you accept our amendments .
commissioner , please accept the amendments and we will then have something workable in place by 1 september .
mr president , many aspects of the common position we have here reflect parliament ' s position at first reading , and this demonstrates the council ' s willingness to work with parliament in order to achieve a positive and rapid outcome in this area , which is so important for european consumers .
the council will now have to remove the provisions relating to category of animal at its meeting in mid-july if it does not want to risk the regulation not coming into force on 1 september this year .
this is not in the interests of consumers , and i therefore call on the house to reject amendments nos 4 and 6 .
mr president , commissioner , the council has adopted the european parliament ' s amendments on the labelling of beef products .
the result is a victory for consumers , and not just them , but the whole beef sector chain : the producers , the processing industry and the organisations representing the beef trade .
mr president , the introduction of the eu beef labelling is a further step on the road to traceability and in the present climate a prerequisite for consumer protection and public health .
i come from a country which exports over 90 % of its entire beef production and quality and consumer satisfaction have always been a priority .
the bse crisis , and later on the dioxin crisis , focused our attention on the safety of our food .
the commission proposal within the context of labelling beef follows on from temporary legislation dating back to 1997 .
the label should contain information on the animal ' s region of origin , where it is born , fattened up and slaughtered .
in the context of this debate , i feel that i must stress once again the extremely sensitive nature of this proposal , and call upon all the community institutions to act responsibly in order to make it operative as soon as possible and avoid legal gaps .
mr president , commissioner , guaranteeing public health is the objective of one of today ' s most important areas of legislation .
i am certain that the council and parliament can reach a good compromise on minced meat , in so far as parliament adopts amendments 4 and 6 which guarantee consumers information about where the minced meat comes from and when it was produced .
the council ' s common position , together with parliament ' s six amendments , constitute legislation of benefit to agriculture and consumers in the eu .
beef labelling is an important stage in the process of rebuilding consumer confidence .
yet the compulsory labelling system is supposed to take force in all member states as from 1 september 2000 , thus finally replacing the voluntary system .
the beef chain from producer to consumer can be very long , and the supply chains in member states vary widely .
the committee took an important decision in rejecting the category of animal labelling proposal .
in cases where the animal was bred and reared in another country , the information might be totally misleading for the consumer , and in countries where stage two is now in force the situation as it is could only deteriorate .
for example , finland ' s national beef labelling system also now includes information on where the animal was bred and reared .
the basis of this discussion is consumer protection , especially with regard to the bse crisis we lived through in europe .
you can of course always revisit everything , but i think that we now need labelling of beef and beef products as a matter of urgency , by which i mean as from september this year and not as from january next year .
the commission has not yet clearly presented its proposals on category here , but i think it will have to adopt a simple and clear approach .
descriptions such as ' veal ' or ' beef ' are sufficient , and anyone who wants more information should also be able to obtain it .
mr president , i fully subscribe to and take as read what has been said so far in relation to the identification and traceability of beef and all beef products .
yesterday the committee on the environment voted by 37 votes to 13 for the five amendments before us today - a clear , decisive vote right across this house from colleagues in all different groups .
i would say to the commissioner , please accept our amendments in relation to this area .
there is no need to confuse and mislead the consumers of europe on a compulsory basis , because the voluntary labelling system which will be driven by competition , pride in product and consumer demand will add anything that a compulsory category label might otherwise require .
if we are now going to insist on country of origin for mince , why cannot we have country of origin for the larger pieces of beef from 1 september , or whenever ?
mr president , commissioner , this proposed regulation and derogation of regulation ( ec ) no 820 / 97 has a first heading , which nobody is talking about , which provides for a system of identification and registration for beef based on earmarks , passports and computerised support which guarantee its traceability .
the second heading establishes an obligatory system of labelling of meat and two stages for its implementation .
in the voluntary period for application of regulation ( ec ) no 820 / 97 , 36 specifications have been approved in spain in order to put it into practice , and i can assure you that this has given the consumer confidence and contributed to the recuperation of consumption , which dropped considerably as a result of mad cow disease .
what matters most to consumers , particularly in the light of the recent food crises , is to know where the animal was born and where and how it has been fed throughout its life .
furthermore , this regulation lays down obligatory minimum requirements and there is always the possibility of voluntary optional labelling .
mr president , i would also like to concentrate on this issue of category of animal labelling .
this is very sloppy , very amateur and unacceptable as a way to treat this house .
it is extra bureaucracy and red tape - which is probably why my own government in the uk has supported it .
but it is not in the interests of consumers , nor of the industry and , specifically , it is not in the interest of small abattoirs which would have the greatest difficulty in dealing with it .
finally i ask the commission and the council to take note that we welcome the principle of labelling beef by country of origin and that we call on the french presidency to set an example by making an immediate commitment to accept all beef so labelled from all eu countries and let the consumer decide .
mr president , commissioner , can i first of all say i very much welcome this opportunity to follow the debate on this issue , but quite frankly i think it has tried our patience for a long time and most of us would like to see it resolved as soon as possible .
therefore , we are drawing up a law giving the consumer the right to know what he is buying and at what price , according to principles of transparency , clarity and information .
the work on the traceability of all the information regarding the animal ' s country of provenance and country of birth and , in particular , where the animal was fattened , is therefore excellent .
timing has always been vital in this area , and it still is .
you all know that the introduction of the compulsory labelling system had to be deferred last december because agreement could not be reached within the time frame available .
this deferral expires on 31 august , which in practice means that it runs out at the end of this month , because parliament does not sit in august and no further sittings can be called .
before i talk about the amendments tabled for tomorrow ' s vote , i would like to make a couple of brief comments about the council common position approved by the council on 6 june .
this took place on 3 may .
once a number of further changes to the text requested by parliament had been made , it was possible to reach an agreement based on which the following agriculture council approved the council common position .
it was only possible to achieve all these joint solutions between the council and parliament because the member states agreed that no more national beef labelling schemes would apply after 2002 .
there are now amendments to be considered in plenary sitting , and approving some of these amendments would have far-reaching consequences , above all in terms of timing and as regards the adoption of the regulation .
for example , as several speakers have noted , two amendments on labelling minced beef have been tabled .
this issue has been scrutinised in great detail both here in parliament and also by the council .
one of the two new amendments reiterates the view that producers of minced beef should give precise details of the origin of the beef they have processed .
ladies and gentlemen , given the industrial conditions under which minced beef is produced nowadays , this would quite obviously be asking too much .
this demonstrates that the regulation will also have a similar impact .
if the worst came to the worst , it could even lead to some companies , especially in the smaller member states , going bankrupt and the market for minced beef being completely renationalised .
and you cannot convince me that a polish cow imported into austria would be a problem for austrian consumers .
because i can tell the honourable member that if a consumer buys minced beef in a butcher ' s shop in austria , he has the piece of meat minced in front of his own eyes , and in that case there are no problems either with origin or anything else .
if you start interfering in that , then companies like this will use products originating solely in their own country and nothing else .
i do not therefore believe that this new proposal would improve or add to information for consumers .
i therefore suggest that we should stick to the provisions on minced beef as laid down in the common position .
this is also intended as the basis for introducing categories in this case .
if we were to gear our decision-making to when it occurs to the last member state that it is now ready to establish technical requirements , then we would be gearing the process to those who are dragging their feet on compulsory beef labelling .
the market will in fact penalise those who were not prepared to establish the technical requirements for beef labelling promptly .
i would therefore ask you to bear these considerations in mind when you vote tomorrow .
the matter of raising conciliation will be after the vote tomorrow .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at noon .
parliament explicitly supported this initiative in its contributions to the extensive consultation process which the commission launched through its green paper on innovation in europe in 1997 .
we need a community patent in order to stimulate innovation , which is a key factor for growth , competitiveness and job creation in europe .
our industry , as well as our research and scientific community , have stressed for some time now the need for a patent which is affordable , valid throughout the community and which offers legal security .
the community patent will co-exist with , and complement , existing systems by offering a more attractive alternative for those businesses , both big and small , operating within the internal market .
this will reduce the uncertainty linked to fifteen different national legislations and , of course , after enlargement , many more .
legal certainty will be considerably reinforced by the creation of a centralized judicial system which will guarantee the quality and coherence of case law relating to community patents .
the creation of such a centralised jurisdiction requires a change to the ec treaty .
finally , our proposal will help to reduce considerably the costs of patents in europe by not requiring supplementary translations of the patent once it has been delivered in one of the three languages of the european patent office .
previous attempts to create a community patent , in particular through the luxembourg convention of 1989 , failed because of a lack of ambition on the two key issues : firstly , the cost and secondly , the litigation .
we must convince member states of the need to change the treaty to create a centralised jurisdiction for community patent litigation .
mr president , commissioner , the proposal for a regulation on a community patent gives us the chance to review cooperation , as you have just said , between the european patent office and the community institutions .
we must not skimp on this question , especially now that we are introducing a community patent .
i warmly welcome the proposal and hope that the igc is ready to make the necessary changes to the treaties .
but i would like to ask a specific question concerning the process in epo .
mr president , i would like firstly to congratulate the commissioner .
as he has said , this is probably the most ambitious internal market project we are currently dealing with and i am happy to say this on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , and as rapporteur on this issue .
it is ambitious , commissioner , because , in addition to what you have said , there is a fundamental reason , based on the principles of the internal market , for having a community patent .
if we want our internal market really to be a domestic market for companies and consumers , the current fragmentation suffered by patents , resulting from national borders , makes no sense .
having said this , it is an ambitious and difficult project , because , as you have mentioned , it requires a change to the treaty and to the constitutions of at least four or six member states .
on the first question , the commission is aware of the concerns that have been raised in france and elsewhere about the directive and in particular about possible inconsistencies between two paragraphs of article 5 of the directive .
may i stress that in my opinion there is no contradiction between the first two paragraphs of that article , the wording of which i believe relies heavily on suggestions made by this parliament .
the first paragraph provides that the human body at various stages of its formation and development and the simple discovery of one of its elements , including the sequence or partial sequence of a gene , cannot constitute patentable inventions .
however the second paragraph of article 5 states that an element isolated from the human body or otherwise produced by means of a technical process , including the sequence or the partial sequence of a gene , may constitute a patentable invention , even if the structure of that element is identical to that of a natural element .
here the invention arises from the isolation of a particular gene from its natural surroundings or by its production by means of a technical process .
a note setting out the commission 's position on this issue has been placed on our website .
our proposal on a community patent , which is the subject of the discussion this afternoon , does not affect the existing regime , which is governed by the directive of 1998 .
i think , however , that it could have been achieved in a different way and without creating a community patent .
one question that is important to deal with here in parliament , and that will definitely be something that affects the linguistic diversity within the eu , is also whether we will guarantee equality between small and medium-sized enterprises that operate in all parts of our union .
when we recently discussed the research white paper , we all took the view that it was vital to move forward on this topic because it was important not only to do very good research in europe , but also to optimise the conditions for its industrial exploitation .
so on that account i welcome commissioner bolkenstein 's statement .
the word ' centralisation ' is unfortunate in this context because it suggests a single centre of what is already a polycentric community .
my group would be very unhappy about such a proposal .
it seems to us that copyright is the right way to protect software and that introducing patents in this sphere would be unhelpful and contrary to good legal principle .
the european patent is not to be confused with the community patent .
the european patent is a basket of national patents , so an inventor would apply for a patent , for example , for benelux , france and germany , five countries out of 15 .
we are not concerned here with any geographical centrality - although i must admit i do not know whether luxembourg is or is not in the centre of the european union .
let them use their capacity to enlighten small and medium enterprises about what is going on in munich and what has been published in english , french or german .
in that way they can stimulate and help the small and medium enterprises existing in those respective countries .
the question then arises : does the commission have room for manoeuvre in this respect ?
mr president , commissioner , i too would like to congratulate you on presenting this proposal .
indeed we all hope that in the interests of the competitiveness of the european union , this unending community patent saga will now have a happy ending .
that is why it was right - and i would like to specifically support you here - not to overburden this proposal with sensitive issues such as patent protection for biotechnology products .
i would like to ask him four questions .
i do not think we should adulterate the quality of the patents delivered by the european patent office and therefore we should maintain the threshold as it is .
the average cost of european patents is three times the cost of an average japanese patent and five times the cost of an average american patent .
mr de clercq says why can we not have five languages .
there is a european patent convention and 15 member states have signed the convention but a number of other states have also signed it so the commission cannot tell the european patent office what its language arrangements should be .
lastly , when enlargement takes place the union will become bigger , obviously , and the community patent will then apply to the countries that have acceded to the european union .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0532 / 00 ) .
the commission considers that any solution to the complex issue of preservation of traffic data should achieve a fair balance between the different needs and interests of those involved , while fully ensuring fundamental human rights with regard to privacy and personal data protection .
on the one hand , privacy protection authorities have considered that the most effective means of reducing unacceptable risks to privacy , while recognising the need for effective law enforcement , is that traffic data should in principle not be kept only for law enforcement purposes .
on the other hand , law enforcement authorities have stated that they consider the preservation of a minimum amount of traffic data for a minimum period of time necessary to facilitate criminal investigations .
furthermore , industry will have a key role to play in contributing on a voluntary basis to the process of creating a safer information society .
users should have confidence in the safety of the information society and feel protected from crime and from infringements of their privacy .
in the same context of the e-europe initiative , as well as in the multiannual action plan on safer use of the internet , the commission plans to support a number of actions aimed at stimulating the use of the internet and promoting security and confidence among the users .
this not only applies to the eu institutions and member states , but also to the consumer and industry , so that we do not find ourselves in a situation of inconsistency in which one hand is doing something relating to the eeurope initiative , while at the same time we are doing something else in connection with crime .
in feira it is precisely consumer confidence that is being identified as a key factor for the development of e-commerce .
it is not the intention of the commission to do anything in secret generally and more specifically , in this area .
but as you can imagine , in this new field we have to address the need to reinforce security on the basis of the subsidiarity principle , in the sense that we have to recognise that each member state is entitled to adopt its own national legislation to guarantee law enforcement at national level .
our approach is to guarantee minimum common levels of law enforcement at european level , which does not prevent member states introducing more stringent or national legislation .
the presidency report to feira indicated that the conclusions of cologne and helsinki could be implemented without it being legally necessary to amend the treaty unless the council 's decision-making powers were to be altered or the treaty 's provisions regarding the weu needed to be amended .
the presidency has suggested that the issue of a revision of the esdp provisions in the treaty should remain open to examination as required before the nice european council .
what is clear is that the military headline goal agreed at the helsinki european council will require a concerted and coordinated effort by all member states .
but it may be helpful to distinguish between two component parts of the overall european security and defence equation , the petersberg tasks of peace-keeping and peace enforcement on the one hand and territorial defence on the other .
all eu member states have agreed this and are ready to contribute to it .
the excellent record of the european neutrals in the field of peacekeeping and crisis management operations has come very much to the fore in the new european security context .
all four member states which are not also members of nato are contributing actively and constructively to the development of cfsb in general and to the european security and defence policy in particular .
their contribution to the last igc was indeed crucial to the inclusion of the petersberg tasks in the new treaty .
finally , i have no doubt that their contribution in this area - materially as well as in the ongoing discussions shaping the new structures of cooperation will continue to be both active and ambitious , be it in the military or non-military dimensions of conflict prevention , conflict resolution and crisis management .
mr president , commissioner , i thank you for your full reply .
what is being transferred is the petersberg tasks alone , with of course the institutional and administrative mechanisms which are at the disposal of the european union .
there are various possibilities about what will happen to the collective defence clause but it is not , given my responsibilities , really a question for me .
question no 28 by ( h-0555 / 00 ) : subject : international criminal court the commission , and particularly the commissioner for humanitarian aid , played an important role in the setting-up of the new , permanent international criminal court ( icc ) in june 1998 .
however , to become a reality , the rome statute must be ratified by 60 states .
however most member states will ratify the convention during this year , including some already this summer such as germany , austria and the netherlands .
the commission supports ngo initiatives that promote the establishment of the icc .
in 1999 about eur 1.5 million was allocated to such activities in line with the budgetary comments for budget line b7706 of chapter b77 .
the brenner is one of the crucial transit routes via the alps and is therefore a good example of the need to act in a balanced way , with regard to both railways and roads , in order to protect the environment and , at the same time , guarantee the free movement of goods .
as regards the railways , the commission - as the honourable members know - supports the measures adopted by the member states to develop and implement the brenner railway project .
the brenner high speed railway line has been included on the list of maximum priority community projects and has received considerable community funding via the trans-european networks .
with regard to the roads , we must stress that an increase in road traffic in no way automatically implies more pollution .
for example , the eco-point system has shown that the emissions of polluting gases from lorries in transit through austria have dropped despite the increase in the number of journeys made .
i consider that this proposal could be a pilot solution for the new projects and the concept of european union transport as a whole .
however , i hope that , before concluding the period set for the 14 essen projects , the brenner project will be under way .
therefore , until the implementation of the agreement with switzerland - and i hope that will be next year - which has been ratified by the swiss people , an agreement which will undoubtedly open up alternatives to the current routes and will allow some of the north-south traffic to use certain corridors through switzerland , there are not many alternative routes , especially because certain routes have had problems with tunnel accidents in recent times .
as to the specific question relating to an article in a turkish newspaper on the 22 january , i can say that there is no community funding involved in what this article relates to .
written confirmation has been received from the commission 's representation office in ankara that the article in question makes no reference to european union or any external source of funds .
what bothers me is the fact that the hurriyet , which is , i believe , the most widely read turkish newspaper , did not meet with any denial on the part of the turkish government and , as we all know , freedom of the press is something of a problem in turkey .
it has highlighted the close and complex interaction between government policies and the environmental impact of livestock production , and identified a large number of technologies which are available to mitigate the negative effects in all different production modes , provided the appropriate policy framework is in place .
we adopted in the community already in 1989 a directive on the protection of animals kept for farming purposes .
as to the problems related to genuinely industrial-scale activities in this sector , we are working with the group of other donors and countries involved whom i mentioned , in order to do this as sustainably and acceptably as possible .
the mutiny which took place in 1996 in the central african republic caused considerable hardship and personal danger to a number of people working there .
i would unfortunately have to put this one in the category of cases showing what some of the problems are between the services in the commission .
a little more than eur 10 million are currently under implementation .
if the evolution of the situation should require , these additional funds then can be mobilised .
planning of future assistance has to take into account the volatility of the situation on the ground .
bearing in mind that a quick return of all the displaced persons currently residing in ingushetia becomes more and more unlikely , it will also be necessary to duly take into consideration an adequate follow-up to the on-going operations in this area .
however , to be perfectly objective , i do realise that , since this principle was introduced in 1989 , difficulties have arisen as regards the transmission of information to the commission by a number of member states , from the point of view both of the methodology used and the regularity and frequency of the reports .
in view of these problems and in order to solve them , the council decided , at the commission 's proposal , to simplify the control and application of additionality for the new programming period starting this year and ending in 2006 .
most member states have sent in appropriate information , especially regarding funding .
it is true , mr nogueira roman , and there is a text with which i must comply , stating that the cohesion fund is not subject to additionality requirements .
it is not subject to this principle because , may i remind you , the cohesion fund was and still is there to help less developed member states catch up and , in numerous cases , accede to monetary union .
that is one part of my reply .
i must admit that there is a weakness in the regulation as regards possible sanctions for countries which do not comply with this principle .
that is why i put in so much effort , in a preventive sense , when we approve the community support frameworks , when we approve the spds , when i meet the ministers who come and see me , when i go and see them in the field , almost every week in some region of europe , in stating my attachment to a number of principles .
however , in application of article 11 of the general regulation , the commission makes and will continue to make approval of community support frameworks , spds for 2000-2006 and mid-term approval and reprogramming conditional upon our departments being sent information on the principle of additionality and compliance with it by the member states .
i admit that there is a weakness from the point of view of sanctions for those who do not comply with additionality .
so it seems to me a little bizarre that we spend ages trying to build up exactly correct structural maps in the full knowledge that nothing under the additionality principle actually guarantees that the member state will increase expenditure in the region in question .
in this specific case , i said ' a weakness ' .
we can confirm that the principle is being applied at national level and , at the same time , that it is not being applied in a region where it is needed .
nonetheless , i must also say that the regulation does not allow me , on this precise point , to issue instructions .
i can do no more than demonstrate that i am keen to enter into dialogue and that i am available , in the case which you have pointed out to me and in every other case , to do so as actively as possible , while at the same time complying with the general regulation of the structural funds .
question no 36 by ( h-0528 / 00 ) : subject : new structural fund programmes and biodiversity the commission is negotiating the new 2000-2006 structural fund programmes .
how can the commission guarantee that biodiversity and the natura 2000 network are protected and not threatened ?
i personally sent these guidelines to each of the member states on 28 march .
because these guidelines were only recently adopted - when the community support framework for portugal was approved on 14 march - and the new programming period 2000-2006 is only just starting , i am honestly not in a position to quote specific examples .
i am talking about putting these new provisions into practice in specific member states ; let me also tell the honourable member that , to date , the overall situation concerning the submission of lists of natura 2000 sites to the commission is unsatisfactory , at least in five member states : germany , france , ireland , belgium and the united kingdom .
the commission has drawn the attention of the greek authorities - i personally have done so twice on two visits to athens within the space of nine months - to the need to set up efficient administrative structures before community appropriations are transferred .
the most important thing is to set up management authorities and , as a matter of priority , the management authority for the community support framework .
the commission has welcomed the intention of the greek authorities to adopt a new specific legal framework by the autumn , to regulate all these matters .
i personally - since i shall be in greece for an official visit to athens and crete in october - shall have an opportunity to specify and verify this point .
we expect and we hope , mr hatzidakis , that these points will also be quickly finalised .
the commission is well aware of the problems , especially those which you have just pointed to in connection with the operational nature of the management organization unit .
as far as more efficient management is concerned - over and above what has already been done under the previous community support framework , - i would remind you that the greek authorities have agreed to draft a bill adapting administrative practice to the rules of the structural funds .
this law is based on the provisions included in the community support framework .
the computer system for integrated management will also need to be fully operational .
so i shall be checking with the greek government that everything is in place at the level of this new community support framework .
and the framework to be implemented must of course include a proper evaluation system for each region , especially proper management and disciplinary systems , as well as the principle of responsible decentralisation .
question nos 38 , 39 and 40 will be replied to in writing .
we will proceed , late , to the last 20 minutes of questions to commissioner wallstrom .
as the author is not present , question no 41 lapses .
question no 42 by ( h-0521 / 00 ) : subject : reclamation work in dublin bay reclamation work is taking place in dublin bay in an area submitted for designation as an spa last july under the wild birds directive .
however , according to documents secured by an ngo , dublin bay watch , following a request under the freedom of information act , it emerged that objections made by a local authority were rejected by duchas on the grounds that ' the proposals to designate an extension would proceed unless a scientific case was made ' .
while included in the 1999 proposal for extension of the spa , the area in question was omitted when the extension was finally adopted at the end of 1999 .
by way of background : the 1999 proposal for extension followed a commission request to the irish authorities to enlarge the spa .
the legal deadline for completing irish spas expired in 1981 and the commission has for some time been concerned that the irish spa network remains incomplete .
in april this year the commission notified a letter of formal notice to ireland under article 226 of the ec treaty in which it drew attention to the general failure to complete the irish spa network .
the commission is not aware of any intention to use community funds in relation to the port reclamation project .
this is just one more example of the way that the irish government is behaving in relation to its obligations under eu directives .
i welcome the recent decision on fining greece and i would like to see the same thing happen with the irish government if they fail to comply with directives .
question no 43 by ( h-0529 / 00 ) : subject : management of toxic waste environmental organisations in greece have alleged that toxic and hazardous waste is being buried without any controls .
the commission has very little information on waste management in greece .
greece did not report on the implementation of waste management legislation between 1989 and 1997 .
however at the end of last year greece answered four questionnaires regarding the implementation of four waste directives .
the most important aspects concern the absence of management plans according to article 7 of directive 75 / 442 on waste , article 6 of directive 91 / 689 on hazardous waste and article 14 of directive 94 / 62 on packaging and packaging waste , the failure to transpose directive 94 / 62 and transmit data according to article 12 concerning the packaging waste industry , the absence of a programme according to article 6 of directive 91 / 157 on batteries and accumulators containing certain substances and non-compliance with articles 4 and 11 of directive 96 / 59 on the disposal of pcbs and pcts .
a first report according to directive 94 / 67 on the incineration of hazardous waste has to be provided for the period 1998 to 2000 by the end of september 2001 .
there are two codecisions , one dated 8 july 1999 and one dated 13 april 2000 .
there is an additional recent opinion sent on 11 august last year and there is a letter of formal notice sent on 10 april this year for failure to apply a number of articles properly .
secondly , i should like to say in all honesty that , as a greek citizen , i am shocked by what you have said .
i should like to put two questions to you .
of course the greek government and maybe also the local authorities should be asked how this has been handled .
from the commission side we can continue the legal proceedings and the legal procedures as they are set out for the commission , but i think what is most effective in cases like this is open debate in the european parliament .
according to the report from the european environment agency on the state of the environment , the topic centre on land cover 1998 estimated that there are 750 000 polluted or potentially polluted places within the eu .
directive 96 / 61 concerning integrated pollution prevention and control , the ippc directive , states that member states must take all necessary measures that are required in order to restore industrial land that is no longer in use .
this directive must be enforced completely before november 2007 .
as far as the past pollution of land is concerned , the proximity principle ought to be applied , because national , regional or local authorities are in the best position to deal with these issues .
i would like to thank commissioner wallstrom for her reply .
as i have already said , we see this as a very great concern also from an economic point of view for many of the candidate countries , where this is often mentioned as an immense problem .
in order to be able to clean up in the best way possible , we need to consider what sort of pollution is involved and what the local conditions are like .
the manufacture and storage of pyrotechnic substances is covered by council directive 96 / 82 of 9 december 1996 on the control of major accident hazards involving dangerous substances , the so-called seveso ii directive .
moreover , the seveso ii directive contains the new provision recognising that the implications of major accident hazards should be taken into account in the land use planning policies of the member states .
member states shall also ensure that all competent authorities and planning authorities responsible for decisions set up appropriate consultation procedures .
a review of the seveso ii directive is already under way .
this process will be carried out in close cooperation with the member states , the european parliament and other interested parties .
annex a contains the provisions concerning the packaging and labelling of dangerous goods and annex b contains the provisions concerning the construction equipment and operation of the vehicle as well as the minimum training requirements for the driver .
the application of this legislation guarantees a high level of safety for the transport of dangerous goods including explosives .
the tragedy in enschede , in the netherlands , illustrates this all too clearly and in portugal , which i referred to in my question , 159 houses in the village of lanhelas in the province of minho were hit by the explosion .
we will be looking at this as soon as we have evaluated all the information about these accidents .
since the time allotted to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions nos 46 to 78 will be replied to in writing . ( the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m .
mr president , commissioner wallstrom , we thank you for being here at this time in the evening .
by adopting a system of environmental management , companies - whether they be industrial or service companies - learn to integrate environmental considerations into the normal management of the company , discovering the many and significant advantages , not only environmental but also economic , which this offers them , amongst other things , because they improve their competitive position .
it therefore seems to me very significant that this regulation is currently being reviewed and that new elements are being incorporated into it which are extremely useful for the environmental improvement of processes , services and products .
the creation of more incentives for european companies to have access to the system , the participation of interested parties - especially workers - , the strengthening of reliability vis-a-vis third parties and an increase in the transparency of information are the main objectives of the amendments which i took up on first reading in parliament and which were approved unanimously in the environment committee .
nevertheless , the committee also approved certain amendments which were contrary to the opinion of the rapporteur , and i have continued to disagree with them .
in fact , the large plants , as stipulated in the ippc directive , will continue to be obliged to be included in the emas register , since they will have to abide by the environmental legislation in force - amendment no 12 - which obviously includes compliance with the ippc directive in the cases where companies are affected .
i would also like to insist on amendments nos 41 and 50 , which my group would be prepared to accept as long as it is made clear that the word ' representatives ' refers to people chosen as such within each company and in no event to organisations , whose participation would hinder and delay the process of adopting the system .
i hope that tomorrow other groups will offer oral amendments in this respect .
mr president , our experience of the community eco-audit scheme has been very mixed .
in germany and austria a great number of businesses have taken part in it , whereas the uptake from businesses in other member states has been very low .
the aim of the present revision must therefore be to make the eco-audit scheme more attractive .
my group also attaches particular importance to the participation of employees and their representatives .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , commissioner , the intention behind emas is an excellent one : encouraging companies to have more respect for the environment .
seven years after its creation , however , emas is a success only in some countries .
i mean amendments nos 5 , 10 and 17 on the best available technologies , the bats .
on the other hand , in the spirit of compromise , we are ready to support amendments nos 43 , 44 and 45 , which link these best available technologies , from the environmental viewpoint , with conditions that are economically and technically viable for businesses .
on the other hand , we reject amendments nos 41 and 50 , because more restrictive measures here again threaten to discourage a large number of candidate firms .
it is essential that this element , and the amendments in relation to best available technology , be supported by parliament .
if we are serious about trying to encourage firms in the right direction then we have to encourage the best available technology .
the changes proposed by the european parliament where best available technology is concerned should mean that all organisations which participate in emas should be forced to apply best available technology .
the concept of best available technology , which is expressly defined in the directive relating to coordinated measures for preventing and limiting pollution , is nonetheless only relevant to industry .
for example , the european parliament itself would not be able to participate because best available technology is not a concept which can be applied to public institutions .
it might be said that it is a minimum requirement that environmental legislation should be respected .
the purpose of emas is to help organisations to perform better and to exceed that minimum .
if the european parliament maintains its amendments , the basis of which is that compliance with environmental legislation must be guaranteed , emas ' s role will be in danger of changing .
i would emphasise that the common position is flexible in this respect .
account can , therefore , already be taken of special cases or special problems .
the commission has carefully examined the 50 amendments which have been tabled and is able to approve 11 of these .
the commission is therefore delighted to be able to approve amendments 1 , 2 and 19 ( 3 ) .
the commission is also very pleased to be able to approve amendment 4 in principle , because it will help ensure that employees are more involved , something which has already been taken into account in the review of emas .
the commission is therefore able to approve amendment 16 in principle , if it is extended to include all information and not only data .
however , emas ' s area of application extends to include more than physical assets , something which must be clearly shown in amendment 22 , which the commission is able to approve in principle .
unanimity and openness are also important principles for emas .
these are amendments 5 , 6 , 10 , 17 , 43 , 44 and 45 , according to which organisations must apply best available technology .
the commission cannot , therefore , approve amendments 7 , 8 , 9 , 11 , 12 , 14 , 15 , 19 , 21 , 23 , 26 , 27 , 28 , 29 , 31 , 33 ( 1 ) , 34 , 35 , 37 , 41 , 42 , 47 , 48 , 49 and 50 .
the commission is unable , therefore , to support amendments 13 , 30 ( 2 ) , 36 , 38 and 46 .
the commission is pleased to supply information to the european parliament upon request , but is unable to approve amendments 18 and 20 because there is a lack of resources for this purpose .
thank you , madam commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
the precautionary principle that is enshrined in the eu treaty , however , makes it imperative to establish a limit value at which the health risk is extremely low .
the main aim of the proposed legislation is to establish limit values for atmospheric concentrations of benzene and carbon monoxide in order to improve the quality of our air and to avoid , prevent and reduce the adverse effects of these substances on human health and the environment .
the proposal was presented by the european commission in december 1998 .
the finnish presidency made a determined effort to use the new legal scope offered by the treaty of amsterdam in order to have this proposed directive enter into force back in december 1999 after the first reading , with the amendments adopted by the european parliament .
i need hardly say that our group supported the amendments which emphasise the danger to certain sections of the population and which regard the proposed environmental measures as surpassable minimum standards .
our group accepts this common position and can support it as it stands .
i am aware of the significance of this directive in terms of the development and enhancement of european environment policy .
its significance lies not only in the fact that it is important to have a limit value for this particular carcinogenic substance but also in the fact that it sets a precedent for the future regulation of other carcinogens .
eventually , it became clear to us that in this case , it would be useful if we , as european citizens , were to deal with this on the basis of a kind of equality before the law , offering the same level of protection to the same citizens .
mrs breyer ' s report went a long way towards further improving the commission ' s proposal at first reading , which took place in december of last year .
the limit values which have been set for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air are based upon the world health organisation ' s latest recommendations and are aimed at achieving a high level of protection of people ' s health throughout the union .
the commission approves amendment 2 , which expressly mentions the internet .
the commission agrees in principle with this requirement , but the common position expressed in article 8.3 of directive 96 / 62 / ec , that is to say the framework directive on air quality , already obliges the member states to compile this information and make it available to the public .
in order for the commission to be able to approve amendment 3 ( 1 ) , the latter must therefore be substantially reworded .
amendment 3 ( 2 ) contains a demand for free public access to the member states ' documentation concerning the selection of places from which to take samples .
i turn now to amendments 1 and 4 which both concern the commission ' s review of the directive in 2004 .
amendment 1 may therefore be approved in principle , but must be reworded .
against the background of the results of a current investigation into benzene , mainly the southern member states considered that they were uncertain of being able to achieve the limit value of 5 g / m3 by 2010 .
only through an addendum to article 7.3 , in which it is expressly stated that the commission can propose further extensions in the light of the results of the 2004 review , was it possible for this agreement to come about .
from a purely legal point of view , this clause does not lead to the commission ' s right of initiative being limited or otherwise affected , but may be seen as an important part of the final compromise in the council .
the commission considers that the compromise to which this could lead would involve unnecessary delay in adopting this important directive in which , for the first time ever , limit values are established for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air .
the commission is therefore unable to approve amendment 4 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
the members of the committee agreed with me that a recommendation is far too weak an instrument in this instance .
the commission is very worried about this report because it recognises that if we persist in insisting on a directive rather than a recommendation , the whole thing may founder in the council .
i believe , and my committee agrees with me , that the primary responsibility for enforcing european union environment legislation should be firmly lodged where it belongs , with the member states .
we cannot understand the commission 's readiness to propose only the minimum possible .
at the moment there are currently nine other environment cases which have come back to the court of justice for a second time because countries have ignored earlier judgments .
there are no less than 157 cases still pending and i regret to have to say that in many cases the european commission has not been able to act , to bring cases to the court of justice , because it does not know what is happening in member states as the countries concerned have not reported back to brussels on what they are doing about legislation .
a recommendation will do no good .
i hope that the european commission has the courage , and i mean courage , to accept the european parliament amendments .
i hope that the european commission has the courage to go into the conciliation process arm in arm with the parliament against , and it will be against , the council .
the first issue is that we want equal and effective enforcement of environmental legislation across the european union and we must all agree to that principle .
the second issue is the clear conflict here between the parliament and the council .
any student who wants to understand conciliation procedure or codecision procedure has a nice straightforward case study here .
the bad implementation of environmental rules has nothing to do with the lack of such rules and directives .
some member states already have well-developed inspectorates or agencies , and the guidelines will ensure that they operate them in accordance with common standards without necessarily having to change their systems that much .
for those member states which do not , the recommendation will be helpful to enable them in the first instance , with the possibility of community funding for eligible member states , to develop their infrastructure and capacity .
we have already achieved some progress in the area with the impel inspectors ' exchange programme and the other work that impel has done on inspections , monitoring frequency of inspections etc .
this proposal should therefore be viewed as the first step in an ongoing programme , and the experience gained in this operation will help us to consider at subsequent stages how to broaden the nature , scope and application of the minimum requirements .
the proposal requires member states to report back on the operation , and i will take a personal interest in this .
in that case we will have failed those member states most in need of assistance and guidance , and the consequence will be no change in the status quo and no improvement in those member states ' implementation .
for these reasons the commission cannot accept any of the proposed amendments relating to changing the form of the proposal from a recommendation to a directive .
however , if the proposal is to remain in the form of a recommendation , the commission can accept in principle amendments nos 2 , 10 , second part , and 15 , second part , in relation to point 9.1 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation ( eec ) no 3258 / 86 on the protection of the community 's forests against atmospheric pollution [ com ( 1999 ) 379 - c5-0076 / 1999 - 1999 / 0159 ( cod ) ] , and ii .
proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation ( eec ) no 2158 / 92 on the protection of the community 's forests against fire [ com ( 1999 ) 379 - c5-0077 / 1999 - 1999 / 0160 ( cod ) ] .
parliament queried the regulations with the european court of justice on 30 april 1997 , and this was resolved on 25 april 1999 .
the european commission and the member states committed themselves , on an international level , at the ministerial conferences on the protection of the forests in helsinki , in 1993 , and strasbourg , in 1990 , to the continuous monitoring of the damage suffered by the forests .
the member states have established networks of systematic monitoring and observation posts for intensive and continuous monitoring of the forest ecosystems .
this proposal asks that the commission be assisted by a standing committee on forests , as it is in many other areas ; that it present an analysis of the application of this regulation with regard to its ecological , economic and social aspects , as well as a cost-benefit evaluation ; that an amendment be included on the mediterranean forests as a specific ecosystem for the southern countries and because of its importance in combating desertification and erosion .
it has just reduced the amount by 6 million for the fight against pollution and 20 million for the prevention of fires , without taking account of the rise in the cost of living index or the incorporation of new countries , austria , sweden and finland , which almost double the area of forest in the union .
therefore , our proposal would be to increase that budget to 44 million and 77 million for pollution and fires respectively .
the committee on budgets is once again presenting amendments in which it wants no kind of notification to appear with regard to the budget for implementation .
mr president , the importance of forests in the european union is clearly illustrated by the fact that they cover 36 % of our territory and employ 2.2 million people .
in several areas of the european union , the forests are often the only viable economic option , because of poor soil or the lack of other natural resources .
however , given forestry ' s unquestionable interrelationship with agriculture and its territorial impact , it is extraordinary that the commission has not been more ambitious in its proposals and that the council has historically been so short-sighted .
on the contrary , in some ways it has moved backwards , as demonstrated by this community regulation on the protection of forests .
with regard in particular to the aspect which is of great concern to my country - the regulation on combating fires - it is regrettable that whereas in the period 1992-1996 the european union benefited from an annual sum of eur 14 million , this annual sum is now to be reduced to eur 10 million , that is , by 40 % .
therefore , mr president , i would like to suggest to the council and the commission that they increase this amount and , if possible , create a community system for information on forest fires .
we have calculated that , if we let every speaker overrun for just 20 seconds , we should still be sitting here at one o 'clock in the morning .
the basic regulations date from 1986 and 1992 , and now the budget for implementation is lower , despite the fact that , since the accession of the nordic countries to the european union , the area of forest is greater .
we are also in a much worse situation in terms of fire prevention , because of climate change and the drought which we are suffering in many parts of europe .
mr president , commissioner , i live in the middle of the nordic forests , which form part of the enormous area of europe covered by forests .
i could spend all night and all of tomorrow talking about the history of the forests and about the enormous importance europe ' s forest areas are going to have in a future sustainable europe .
however , this report concerns the threats to our forests .
mr president , it is indeed gratifying to note the steady increase in the attention devoted to forests and to the state of their health .
the most southerly part of mediterranean europe is threatened by a process of physical desertification , in the literal sense of the word .
this issue of forests does not only concern the countries of the south , whose territories are affected , in the same way , of course , that the defence of the nordic forests is not only of exclusive interest to the nordic countries .
mr president , the content of the regulation being discussed here is based on the situation that existed at the end of the 1980s , but since then things have changed greatly .
the regulation on the subject of the community ' s forests must be reformed , but parliament cannot undertake financial commitments until the present regulation expires in 2001 .
the situation is so different between the north and the south .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , as you know , the commission has presented two proposals for the amendment of the regulations on the protection of the community 's forests against atmospheric pollution and against fire .
the purpose of these proposals is to adjust both regulations in the light of the judgment of 25 february 1999 in which the european court of justice declared that article 130s of the ec treaty - which has now been renumbered 175 - was the proper legal basis for these instruments .
it was also necessary to bring the annual budgetary framework for these two initiatives into line with the amount of funds actually allocated by the budgetary authority in the period from 1997 to 2000 and with the amounts already earmarked in the preliminary draft budget for the year 2001 .
the commission takes the view that this procedure would be inconsistent with the decision of 28 june 1999 on the comitology .
the commission will present its proposals for their revision before the end of this year .
it has no problems , however , with amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 and 16 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
proposal for a decision of the european parliament and the council on the implementation of a training programme for professionals in the european audiovisual programme industry ( media - training , 2001-2005 ) [ com ( 1999 ) 658 - c5-0059 / 2000 - 1999 / 0275 ( cod ) ] , and ii .
proposal for a council decision on the implementation of a programme to encourage the development , distribution and promotion of european audiovisual works ( media plus - development , distribution and promotion , 2001-2005 [ com ( 1999 ) 658 - c5-0119 / 2000 - 1999 / 0276 ( cns ) ] .
against this background the media programme , following on from its predecessors , media i and media ii , is expressly designed to address this deficit in the circulation of european works and has three main support targets : the training of professionals in the audiovisual programme industry through media-training and the development and marketing of audiovisual works through the media plus programme .
i do wish to point out , however , that in some areas we have proposed amendments which we consider to be extremely important .
the commission is proposing eur 400 million for a five-year programme in the audiovisual domain .
four hundred million was the budget proposed by the commission back in 1995 , and unfortunately the council rejected that proposal .
whoever wants to grasp the opportunities offered by the digital revolution must be prepared to make the requisite investment .
the increase we are proposing is actually moderate ; it would take the total budget to 550 million - 480 million for media plus and 70 million for media- training .
the mobilisation of private capital is perhaps our key demand along with the pilot project relating to the european investment bank .
the second area is the question of the legal basis .
this should also be made clear in the programme and be reflected in the legal basis .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we are discussing a very important report here today .
it will not enable us to develop a genuine european audiovisual policy to challenge the american hegemony in this domain .
where the european union can intervene , as it is already doing in media plus , it should be able to continue doing so with a greater volume of financial resources .
we should like more money , and we should like this addition to the legal basis .
we are now entering the third round of support programmes for european films , and this support remains absolutely vital , for the european audiovisual industry has undoubtedly been in crisis for quite a long time .
during production and afterwards , an adequate promotion and marketing budget is generally lacking .
the programme draws on the lessons learned from the experience of the preceding programmes , but although the council and the commission are well aware of the present situation , they are still afraid to take the plunge .
this report therefore marks a new attempt to put this financial instrument on the agenda as an accompanying measure .
european film production is an important part of the eu ' s cultural and media policy , and the liberal group considers that it is important to support the european film industry which is exposed to a very great deal of competition , especially from the american film industry .
it is the european parliament ' s and the eu ' s task to establish the correct framework and conditions for a cultural policy of this kind , but it is not a proper part of our remit to spend an exorbitant amount of taxpayers ' money on cultural policy .
we therefore think that the commission ' s proposal for a total overall budget of eur 400 million over the five years is both realistic and appropriate .
it is similarly with certain reservations that we shall be voting tomorrow in favour of the proposals to set up a european guarantee fund and to broaden the financing options through cooperation with the european investment bank .
the media programmes were previously administered by the commission in cooperation with the media committee as the advisory committee .
i fear that this change will make it still a little more difficult to administer the media plus programme , so it is also with a reservation that we shall be voting in favour of the proposals tomorrow .
we of the group of the greens / european free alliance have called for attention to be given to the smaller countries , to the difficulties which smaller producers encounter in smaller countries or in countries which belong to a smaller linguistic group , and we particularly appreciated this being taken into account in the adopted amendments .
from a structural point of view , greater investment was necessary in the audiovisual sector to create fresh job opportunities for young unemployed europeans and to stem the european union brain drain to third countries , particularly the united states of america , where greater investment leads not only to better working conditions but also greater job opportunities .
finally , considering development of investment in the european cinema industry to be extremely important , the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy calls upon the member states to pursue a policy of making sums reinvested for the creation of new jobs tax-deductible , and stresses the importance of establishing a guarantee fund as one of the measures necessary for the development of the independent audiovisual industry which encourages new talent and develops a cultural content of european tradition .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in a europe of economic and monetary union , it could have been an advantage for the media / media plus programme to have article 157 ( industry ) of the treaty as its legal basis .
now , reading the preview of this part-session produced by parliament ' s press department , i note that the media plus programme is not one of this week ' s highlights .
culture is not paid much attention in this parliament , as in all the european institutions .
like others members who have spoken on this subject , i hope article 151 , on culture , can also be a legal basis for this audiovisual programme .
we urgently need to have audiovisual works distributed in every country in europe .
emphasising the cultural importance of the programme does not mean neglecting its economic importance , of course .
it seems that neither cultural necessity nor economic objectives carry any weight in favour of implementing this ambitious programme .
people may say the budget has been increased compared with the two previous programmes , media 1 and media 2 .
the latter committees - the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy - have done something significant in approving the proposal to change the legal basis of media plus , inserting article 157 ( industry ) and article 151 ( culture ) in order to give equal value to industry and the audiovisual sector .
the commission has already indicated through press agencies that it opposes this amendment .
but in putting this before the house we have to ask ourselves two very important questions .
i also believe that this industry will be the spearhead of this century , in the same way as coal , steel and the infrastructure of railways were the impetus for the development of the revolution in the 19th century .
it is absolutely vital that we get in there as a series of institutions committed to building this industry .
the second reason is that we have to , in this increasingly homogenised era of global audio-visual content , get into the area of freedom of speech , freedom of expression and freedom of diversity .
that is where we in this house have an exemplary responsibility in performing our role in the development of this particular sector .
my own group is very committed to the budget that has been laid out in the report .
madam commissioner , on a certain occasion in september , you said that we should declare war on hollywood in order to strengthen the european film industry .
the only problem there is that our best warriors emigrate to hollywood .
commissioner , malicious gossip has it that you could be open to challenge , in purely legal terms , for awarding the european film prize in cannes on behalf of media plus , since the prize may have been funded from the media ii budget .
as directly elected representatives of the people , we also have a legal and moral right to be part of the decision-making process in the field of cultural policy .
mr president , i would like to say that i am pleased with the media plus document .
mrs hieronymi , furthermore , has been very open to all suggestions and it seems to me that , in relation to other programmes , it contains an innovation which the commission has also contributed to , that is , support for marketing and distribution .
nevertheless , i would like a further step to be taken because , in my view , the media plus document follows a principle which is rather like that of arts cinema : it supports in particular the script and the production when these days we know that post-production accounts for 60 % , 70 % or 80 % of good films .
the problem , honourable members , is not just whether films produced in the us or films produced in europe dominate the european market ; the main problem lies with the content and quality of the films that we and our children watch .
the european union treats culture in general and audiovisual media in particular as a commodity , as yet another commercial activity for big business and as a competitive market where the only winners are those who are best equipped to turn the market mechanisms to their advantage , rather than those who have something new or something of a higher quality to offer .
this approach is quite evident in the proposal for the media plus / media training programme , from the very first paragraph of the introduction and from article 1 of the proposal for a decision , which aims to allow professionals in the industry to take full advantage of the european and international dimension of the market .
mr president , i congratulate the rapporteur on the work that she has done .
there are some things that the public sector cannot do and some things the market cannot do .
certainly the public sector cannot make good films .
whenever we try it in the united kingdom , any support from the government tends to mean that the film is going to be a flop .
i must pay tribute to organisations like , in britain , the national film school in beaconsfield , which needs help to do its work .
finally , it is very easy to write a long speech .
a higher budget will also make it possible to involve the central and eastern european countries to a greater extent in these programmes .
thank you very much , mrs hieronymi .
mr president , as you know , the commission sets great store by the european parliament ' s opinion , especially with the culture council coming up on 20-21 july , because it is my job to let the ministers know the views of the european parliament .
in this way , discussions between the commission and the council can progress usefully , not just on the basis of the commission ' s proposal , but also on the basis of the position expressed by parliament .
do not expect me to launch into a speech on the importance of european cinema .
you know my views on the subject ; i share yours , but we are here this evening to produce the best possible draft .
all the amendments bear witness to a broad consensus in parliament about the way the commission has approached the media programme .
we both agreed that , in order to develop the content industry in europe , risk capital needs to be made more available and instruments established to aid investment in audiovisual content .
i also agree that community policy on audiovisual media should have a wider scope but should be developed as a complement to national and regional policies in this field , and synergistically with these .
secondly , one of the acknowledged successes of the media programme is its adaptation to the needs of businesses in the sector , especially smes , through financial and training support mechanisms suited to their practices and strategies .
it is therefore essential for the implementation of media plus to be based on professional expertise and for the support mechanisms to be accessible to the greatest possible number of businesses , in all the countries and regions making up our community .
first of all , in the ' vocational training ' section , i am in a position to accept in full , or in substance , 37 of the 48 amendments presented today .
another factor is the exclusion of initial training : amendments nos 12 , 110 , 111 and 112 .
another problem is the exclusion of the training areas to be supported by the economic , financial and commercial management training programme : amendments nos 113 and 114 .
my fourth point is the inclusion of training for technical professions in audiovisual media , amendment no 18 , and radio , amendment no 33 .
on the other hand , i am in favour of opening up media training actions to radio professionals , which may constitute a compromise between amendments nos 33 and 34 .
finally , there are two declaratory amendments on encouraging fiscal measures , amendment no 4 , and intellectual property , amendment no 9 .
i am willing to accept 57 amendments , 80 % of the amendments tabled by parliament , literally or in spirit .
i can make the list of these amendments available , mr president .
i am forced to express reservations on eleven of the amendments tabled .
four of them , amendments nos 53 , 65 , 69 and 93 , are declaratory and outside the scope of the decision .
it will come as no surprise that my reservations relate , in particular , to amendments nos 44 and 54 on the legal basis .
article 157 ( 3 ) is the legal basis proposed by the commission , and parliament is seeking to add another legal basis , the article on culture .
ladies and gentlemen , i understand your position , but i think article 157 relating to industry is the appropriate legal basis for this decision - as was already the case for media 2 - considering its subject matter , its aim and its content .
establishing an industrial policy for audiovisual media does not mean we forget about cultural diversity , because the aim of the culture industry is precisely the achievement , on the ground , of cultural diversity .
but the choice , as legal basis , of the article relating to industry conforms to consistent case law which lays down that in the framework of the system of community powers , the choice of the legal basis of an act must be founded on objective factors capable of jurisdictional control and such factors notably include the aim and the content of the act .
media plus is a programme intended to strengthen the competitiveness of the audiovisual sector , but i must stress that one recital , recital 11 , highlights , if that were still necessary , the cultural dimension of the audiovisual sector , in accordance with article 151 ( 4 ) of the treaty .
i note your concerns and i really hope that the next revision of the treaty will offer a new framework , as well measures enabling the european parliament to be fully involved in decisions on audiovisual policy .
as regards amendment no 87 on the budget for the second section , my comment is the same as for the amendment on the budget for the training section .
as regards amendment no 103 on radio , media plus cannot be extended to other sectors given the financial constraints , but i have already made one concession , in the training section , to including radio in the programme .
on amendments nos 115 and 116 , regional and minority languages , the commission is , as you know , very concerned about respect and promotion of linguistic and cultural diversity .
moreover , this concern is taken into account throughout the media plus programme , primarily through positive discrimination measures in the support mechanisms in favour of professionals operating in countries and regions with low production capacity and with a limited geographic or linguistic scope .
amendment no 115 would create a sub-programme within the programme .
but amendment no 116 actually does nothing more than take up and specify the measures which are already scattered throughout the programme .
ladies and gentlemen , mr president , beyond these few points of disagreement , which are minimal , i want to express my satisfaction at the cooperation and the many points of agreement between the commission and parliament .
the debate is closed .
quality assessment , self-assessment of schools in particular , is a key element in the development of quality education .
in my opinion , it is especially important to encourage member states to develop sound methods for assessment in education , bearing in mind that self-assessment is complementary to external evaluation .
moreover , it is important to stimulate cooperation between schools and various bodies , also at local and regional level .
finally , we reached general agreement in the committee on a large number of amendments .
we all know the eu has very limited responsibilities as regards education , but there are some places where the european union can give added value .
in some parts of the union - and i am quite willing to cite the united kingdom - we are not doing as well as we could .
there are very many bright youngsters who do very well in the schools , but 20 % of young people leave british schools without any qualifications at all .
i am quite prepared to believe that 15 heads , or 15 sets of data across the union , will help us achieve better quality in the schools .
in studying the educational systems of the member states of the european union we should draw on a profound knowledge of the practices and acquired rights in our various countries , because each of our countries has its own educational reality .
quality in education is a challenge for our society , but education must not become a focus for social operators who want to impose their personal aims upon it .
if an in-depth reform of the educational system is needed , it must involve all the partners in the system and , above all , it must not be rigid .
any child who is failing is expressing his unease in the educational institution , but also in society .
the fight against failure at school , in other words , against failure in society , is and must be a major concern for anyone with political responsibility .
there is no miracle cure , but there are battles to be fought .
let me just come back to a point that i raised myself in an amendment .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , there has been , as always , great harmony between the views of parliament and those of the commission .
the quality of education , and quality evaluation , are indispensable , as you have said , essential to being able to improve educational systems .
so we have to recognise that accepting quality control can sometimes be very difficult for education ministers , but it is indispensable , as everyone has said this evening , if we want to improve school systems .
i must also stress the very positive attitude of the portuguese presidency , which has moved this issue forward , and i join you in regretting that it has not been possible to complete matters at first reading .
but it is parliament ' s decision , and parliament ' s alone , to complete at first reading or to go further .
first , there has been a vast pilot project on quality evaluation , launched in 1997 , and the proposal for a recommendation is based largely on the conclusions we have drawn from that pilot experiment , of evaluation as instrument of improvement of the quality and role of european cooperation in this domain .
quality evaluation is essential if we want to make progress in the future , because improving basic skills will allow us to make a success of , and profit fully from , the opportunities offered our young people in the new knowledge society .
as you have said , the lisbon european council emphasised the importance of modern systems of education .
you know i have already started work on the elearning programme and we are now following up with the quality programme as i have already presented the first report on quality , based on sixteen quality criteria drawn up by the member states and oecd specialists .
for example , amendment no 40 invites the commission to define a plan for a follow-up in close cooperation with the member states .
in the same vein , i am delighted with amendment no 42 , which allows the commission to submit new follow-up proposals three years after the adoption of the recommendation .
other amendments aim to extend the political range of the recommendation and i am very pleased with them .
so that is the sense in which i accept amendments nos 17 and 18 , seeking to associate the candidate countries , as of now , in european cooperation as regards quality evaluation .
similarly , i agree in principle with amendment 36 which refers to the eurydice information network .
it is certainly true that the eurydice network , and in particular european unity , can support european cooperation as regards evaluation by making a common platform of basic knowledge available to the various players .
however , i think it is difficult to entrust responsibility for coordinating experience in this area to the networks .
besides , i think the reference to eurydice would be better placed in the invitations to the commission rather than in the part relating to the member states .
i am also delighted with amendments nos 21 to 35 , which clarify the invitations to the member states .
i hope with all my heart that the council will rally to that decision , which is the result of a very broad consensus between parliament and the commission .
the debate is closed .
mr president , it may be that president fontaine was unfamiliar with the british rules of protocol which obtain in such matters , but mr miller has no such excuse .
thirdly , we wished to congratulate president zedillo on having enabled mexican institutions to make this change to democracy .
certainly , mr lehne .
mr president , i am glad to have the opportunity to address the european parliament concerning the results of my work as european ombudsman in the year 1999 .
the annual report for 1999 covers the last year of the first mandate of the european ombudsman .
last year the ombudsman 's office received 1,577 new complaints compared to 1,372 in 1998 , an increase of nearly 15 % .
the number of inquiries opened rose from 171 in 1998 to 206 in 1999 , an increase of over 20 % .
during the first six months of this year , the number of new inquiries rose by 32 % over the same period in 1999 .
i do hope that the european parliament will support the ombudsman in seeking the resources needed to carry out the work effectively .
the proportion of the complaints outside the mandate even increased slightly , probably because we received a growing number of complaints by e-mail .
however in all , more of the e-mail complaints are directed against authorities of member states .
i am not sure whether they understood that this would mean the european ombudsman carrying out tasks currently belonging to the european commission as the guardian of the treaty , and to the european parliament as the democratic forum to which citizens may address petitions .
of these , we transferred 71 cases to the european parliament to be dealt with as petitions and advised a further 142 complainants of their rights to petition the european parliament .
in many cases , complaints against national , regional or local authorities could be dealt with effectively by an ombudsman in the member states concerned .
in every member state there should be a non-judicial body which can assist european citizens in conflicts with member states ' administration concerning their rights under european union law .
a further seminar is planned to take place in brussels under the belgian presidency of the council in the year 2001 in cooperation with the commission and with belgium federal and regional ombudsmen .
the regional ombudsmen and similar bodies will also be invited to brussels next year .
the ombudsmen and similar bodies in the member states have shown a positive attitude towards cooperation with the european ombudsman .
these doubts were unjustified because the community 's institutions and bodies have responded properly to the ombudsman 's work .
since the beginning , they have themselves settled the complaint to the satisfaction of the complainant in over 180 cases .
however , we did achieve one friendly solution in 1999 in a case where the commission and the council agreed that the complainant should be paid the amount due him for his work as a european union regional coordinator monitoring the palestinian elections .
if the institution or body concerned will not correct the maladministration itself , the ombudsman 's ultimate weapon is to draft a recommendation followed , if necessary , by a special report to european parliament .
five years ago , there were many people who said that the community institutions and bodies did not pay much heed to european parliament .
in two cases the ombudsman has made a special report to the european parliament .
i believe that the european ombudsman 's activities have reached the level that one has the right to expect of a body which is new and consists of 25 persons working in a fairly complex legal environment .
i would like to use this opportunity to thank all the community institutions and bodies for another year of constructive cooperation .
the aim of the committee on petitions itself is to provide a good and effective service for individuals within the european union and for civil society generally .
any individual , citizen , resident or group may petition parliament if they feel that community law or principles are not being properly applied at whatever level .
last year we received 958 petitions of which 492 were considered admissible .
we know we could provide a more rapid and effective service if member states could provide an equally committed response in replying to requests for information and explanation .
i would draw the council 's attention to points 8 and 10 of the report - if it was here .
some of our ideas are mentioned in this report .
we would also wish to use the experience of our committee members through their work on other committees of parliament to institute a rapporteur-style system for specific topics .
we consider as a committee that petitions are a valuable and empowering tool for democracy in what can often feel like a remote and anonymous institution .
in the report , the committee stresses that this jointly approved definition of " maladministration " also involves the right to inspect how the institutions have interpreted community law .
irrespective of the legal form the charter of fundamental rights will take , it will , in any case , be an expression of the member states ' common constitutional traditions which , in accordance with article 6 of the treaty , shall be respected by the union and therefore also by the institutions and public bodies .
the committee observes , therefore , that the ombudsman ought to play an important part in implementing a future charter of citizens ' rights .
the committee has also expressed its clear support for the fact that the charter of fundamental rights ought to contain rules which give citizens the right to expect good administration within the eu . " good administration " is the opposite of " maladministration " .
all these aspects have been central to the ombudsman ' s work .
these rights are prerequisites for the active citizenship that is necessary if the eu is to regain the confidence of its citizens .
the ombudsman has become renowned for his work for the wider public .
it receives complaints from citizens , as the two previous speakers rightly said , who believe their rights as eu citizens have been restricted .
as draftsman of an opinion on the right of residence , i would like to make a few comments on the specific problems in this area .
since the maastricht treaty there is a general right of residence , provided the individual concerned has adequate means of subsistence and adequate health insurance protection .
freedom of movement and right of residence can be restricted only for reasons of law and order , security or health .
experience has shown the committee on petitions that in practice the right to freedom of movement comes up against a great many problems because : ( a ) member state authorities are slow to transpose the rules of community law , ( b ) problems arise with the recognition of diplomas and qualifications in the case of specific professions , ( c ) the rules on social security have not been standardised , e.g .
mr president , the right to petition and to complain is not some recent invention .
but this right was always in danger of being changed , restricted or abolished .
no administration or institution is infallible .
my group congratulates the ombudsman on the work he accomplished in 1999 .
the line the ombudsman is pursuing has a lot of support amongst the citizens of all member states .
it is an indisputable fact , and there are several international scientific reports to prove it , that there is a crystal-clear connection between a high level of openness and transparency in the administration and a low level of corruption .
to summarise , the ombudsman fulfils a very important function .
mr president , commissioner , mr soderman , it may be well to remember that just a year and a half ago there was a debate in this chamber over whether we needed a committee on petitions in general .
i am very pleased to be able to say that the committee on petitions has again shown its indispensability , especially at a time like this , when we wish to enhance the status of the ordinary citizen in the european union .
secondly , i wish to say that at this stage nobody doubts that the committee on petitions and the ombudsman make an extremely important contribution to compliance with community law .
it is the committee which makes the institutions most visible to the citizens .
in particular , on 7 december last , president prodi undertook to find and propose legal and organisational solutions to give both internal and external candidates to commission competitions access to their examination papers .
would the ombudsman please inform us , in the same way that he has informed us that europol needs more time to comply with the recommendation , whether the commitment made by president prodi on 7 december to making papers available by 1 july 2000 has already been implemented or not .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i gather from the ombudsman ' s annual report that , as we have now heard , the main complaint of the citizens is about lack of transparency .
it was very good to see the respect in which the european ombudsman is held by his colleagues , the national ombudsmen .
with our chairman mr gemelli we are now looking at ways of making the petitions committee more effective and more efficient in the work it does on behalf of citizens .
it is important that citizens and the officials of the institutions know what is reasonable behaviour so that all have a standard to which they can refer .
mr president , i should like to start by congratulating the two rapporteurs on their interesting comments .
the third way is to strengthen and improve the role of the ombudsman , mainly by giving him easier access to all the documents needed in order to conduct an efficient investigation .
at the same time , the wealth of material in his report should be closely studied and taken as the starting point for the changes which need to be made to the modus operandi of the community institutions .
finally , we would like to request that , in a similar way to parliament in the codecision procedure , the committee on petitions may be permitted to present its own justification for certain decisions , and we call for amendment of the treaties in order to streamline the entire legal system and existing legislation .
mr president , mr soderman , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their hard , thorough and excellent work .
the more multi-cultural it is the greater the transparency , and the more democratic it is the more open it likewise is .
in order to respond to citizens ' expectations , adequate coordination between the committee on petitions , the european institutions and national authorities is essential .
greater account must also be taken by the other parliamentary committees of the work carried out by our committee .
indeed , the national authorities are the first to apply community law and it is indispensable for them to work in coordination with the european institutions , and in particular parliament and the commission .
first of all , it cannot be denied that this committee is not very well known , although its work is indispensable in strengthening the link between citizens and the european union .
finally , one of the strong points of the french presidency ' s programme is a europe that is closer to the citizens .
the work of our committee falls within this sphere and it is up to us to make this expectation a reality .
the reality of our society is that if governments and administrations had their way they would never appoint petitions committees or ombudsmen .
the petitions committee in particular is an important mechanism of access for the people of europe .
it can be seen from the report that it is the commission that is the subject of the majority of the investigations that have been undertaken , 77 percent to be precise .
i would like to highlight the fact that this report emphasises that all eu institutions and bodies must establish a code of good administrative behaviour .
the basic pillars of the work of the ombudsman are independence and transparency .
the principle of good administration must also be included in the eu charter of fundamental rights which is being drafted .
for that reason there has to be closer cooperation between the ombudsman and national and regional ombudsmen .
in this respect , both the committee on petitions and the ombudsman play a key role , on different levels and with different purposes , but they are both nevertheless essential to the improvement of the operation of the institutions .
secondly , it proposes a review of the examination procedures of the committee on petitions .
it is true that we sometimes take a long time to reply .
the commission is open to dialogue , both with parliament , and with the council itself , in order to reduce the time taken to produce replies and increase transparency and communication with parliament and the committee on petitions .
i believe that it is very important , in the relations between the commission , the ombudsman and other institutions and bodies , to systematically respect the institutional balance laid down in the treaties .
the ombudsman , in his report , has indicated that the number of complaints , investigations and inquiries over the last year have increased considerably , and this is simply the result of greater awareness of the institution on the part of the citizens .
if we compare it with other administrations , i believe that it compares very favourably and that we score highly in these areas .
with regard to the amendments of the statute of the ombudsman , the competent parliamentary committee must issue an opinion in accordance with article 195 of the treaty , and when parliament takes the initiative , we will analyse all the relevant issues .
mr raschhofer spoke about the draft regulation on public access to documents , which has been debated .
i should like to stress that this draft regulation is now before parliament .
the committee work can start .
members of parliament are a very important source of information for many citizens .
thank you kindly , mr soderman .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
mr president , we meet at a time when congestion in our skies has never been greater .
according to the statistics , the incidence of a 15-minute delay has risen from 12.7 % in 1991 to 30.3 % in 1999 and is still rising .
it is a fact that there has been a lack of investment in air traffic control systems .
whilst this pressure has been growing , we owe it to those working in the system to congratulate them and thank them for what they have done .
all this , then , has a detrimental effect upon the mobility of our citizens , and in terms of the economic and financial and social costs for our businesses and a wide variety of other people affected on a day-to-day basis by what is going on .
i would like to congratulate commissioner palacio for having the initiative to bring this to our committee in the terms that she did , and with the force and verve that she has shown , initially , in setting up the high level group , and also in the leadership that she has given to addressing this problem .
the council of transport ministers needs to take a political decision to address this .
it is up to individual nation states to decide , but they must decide to address this problem of the division between regulation of their airspace on the one hand and the air service management provision that could be offered by others or other organisations .
but above all we wish commissioner palacio , with our support , to press the council of ministers and all those associated with this to take urgent decisions .
mr president , i would like , if i may , to deliver very briefly a few comments on this report .
it seems obvious that we need to completely rethink the organisation of air traffic control in the european sky .
in this respect , the commission ' s initiative is commendable .
i have many doubts as to the conclusions of the report .
in this respect , the cellular , segmented organisation of the european territory must be retained and , in a way , improved .
indeed in paragraphs 4 and 5 we note again that our parliament has now decided on two occasions that the regulatory function is to be transferred to the european union .
nor is that in any way a problem .
we also note the lack of political will that exists within both the commission and the council , although it is worth perhaps reminding ourselves that this initiative started with the council in june last year when it requested the commissioner to bring forward this communication .
between 1986 and 1996 air traffic in europe doubled .
it will double again in the coming ten years .
what we want to hear perhaps from the commissioner today is a clear timetable from her as to the speed at which she will be acting in the months to come .
i urge colleagues to back the rapporteur 's proposal and i urge the commissioner to bring forward a very clear timetable .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , sir robert atkins has , in my view , compiled a sound report .
mr president , the report deals with the problem of increasing air traffic .
i want to focus on just one aspect of this report or , more specifically , on a major omission from it .
that causes major congestion problems but it also causes major environmental problems as well - not only the noise and pollution for people living around the airports but also the impact on global climate .
unfortunately this report fails to make the vital link between congestion and air traffic reduction and therefore misses a vital opportunity to address these problems in a lasting manner .
mr president , commissioner , i think there is some ambiguity regarding the expression " single european sky " , because air traffic control is in fact , as you are well aware , already a european field of activity .
there is already a european system for controlling the air space with eurocontrol and there is already a body , the central flow management unit , based in brussels .
the great proposal that is put to us for improving traffic consists of separating regulatory and control functions .
the separation of functions would lead to the liberalisation of air traffic service provision , establishing , as indeed the atkins report states , a liberalised internal market .
in france - and i am not trying to make france a model - there is a general directorate that governs everything and , in the past few years , investments have been made and air traffic controllers have been recruited .
there has been talk of the fact that there are too many aircraft in the sky , that one controller has too many aircraft to deal with , etc . , but we need only look at the united states of america , which is the most advanced country in the world in terms of aeronautics , where these problems are dealt with and , although they may not be completely resolved , adequate solutions have been found .
let us not disregard other air space users such as air-taxis , private companies and private users flying club aircraft .
mr president , commissioner , securing a place in the transport market is an uphill struggle .
eurocontrol has proven to be inadequate as a mechanism for managing air traffic .
the member states must overcome their perhaps justified anxiety as regards the management of their airspace and , at some point , must take a longer-term view of newly-emerging needs which goes beyond their borders and beyond the present situation .
i should like to close my intervention by reminding the house that , when the european parliament voted on the report for the intergovernmental conference , it took view that the regulatory operation of air traffic in europe , in our member states , should be taken over by the european union .
there is no doubt that air traffic control delays are a problem .
i hear that the average delay is said to be 20 minutes .
the report must consider all the issues involving air traffic and adopt a twofold approach as proposed by the commission .
it is the greatest cop-out in the world for airlines to say to passengers that the delay is caused by air traffic .
invariably they cause delays as much as air traffic .
we support the compromise that is made in point 8 with regard to eurocontrol .
finally , there are some tdi amendments with this .
i can only assume that the tdi group must ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , i would also like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , like the rapporteur and the previous speaker i think we urgently need to take the appropriate measures to tackle and eventually put a stop to the constant increase in delays in european air traffic .
sir robert atkins , for whose expertise i have enormous regard , and a majority in the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism believe the prime way to achieve this objective is through liberalisation measures .
liberalisation will without doubt increase the number of providers , but it will not resolve certain problems and will even create new ones .
in a peaceful and united europe there is not one logical reason for reserving a large part of airspace for the military .
fifthly , we do not need the commission to use its influence on national governments in the event of domestic industrial disputes , as called for in paragraph 14 of the report ; we need a smoothly running social dialogue between all the players involved in air traffic !
it is in the international negotiation of traffic rights that this concept of european air space ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , it has been noted that air transport is increasingly accessible to a greater number of our fellow citizens .
the desire to create optimum air traffic control in europe is based on good intentions , but why should the commission challenge the air policies of the member states and their bilateral agreements through a single air space ?
it is now for the council to take the necessary and urgent political decisions which will allow the single aviation market to be supplemented with a single air traffic control system .
another cause which makes the current system ineffective is the different organisation of the civil system and the military system , as well as the different standards of technical equipment on the ground .
there is a clear need to achieve more effective cooperation between the different users of the airspace , and i believe that that cooperation and a joint approach should be sought at european level .
lastly , madam vice-president , please take note that we are aware of your efforts and we will support you in the line you have taken .
mr president , i must express major reservations with regard to the atkins report as it bears the stamp of commercial interests concealed behind the best of intentions .
in actual fact , the airlines would like the air traffic control sector to be completely liberalised , not so much for reasons of safety , interoperability or reducing delays as to be able to access a market of air traffic control services that would enable the more powerful among them to purchase more expensive , secure slots and leave the problem of delays to other airlines and private aviation .
we all know that the considerable increase in air traffic is the main underlying cause of overcrowded and saturated skies .
these are the fundamental causes of air delays .
naturally , the single sky must be set up through a reformed eurocontrol and harmonised control services at european level .
commissioner , i hope that , in preparing the future directive on the single sky , the commission will be able to handle this matter by taking a calmer and more impartial overall view .
but how would subjecting air traffic control to the requirements of private profit possibly put an end to delays ?
it is in the interests of passengers and their safety , and in the interests of employees in this sector for air traffic control to remain a public service , dedicated exclusively to ensuring the smooth running of air traffic .
if it is necessary to put an end to national peculiarities with regard to air traffic management , and if it is legitimate to unify the european air space , this must be achieved by rejecting any idea of privatisation , competition , or quest for profitability , and we will vote against this report .
mr president , i really must congratulate my colleague , sir robert atkins of the british conservative party , on his most excellent report on the single european sky .
this proves beyond doubt that the overarching ambition of the european union is a single nation with its single national flag , its single national anthem , its single legal space , its single national borders and now the citizens of europe will soon be able to breath single european air .
however , after the failure of the single land policy , known as the cap , the single sea policy , known as the cfp , we can now look forward to a similar failure of the single sky policy .
but you have struck a real blow for the eurosceptic movement in the uk , sir robert , i congratulate you .
it is quite clear that the european transport council must take immediate action to ensure that the air traffic control decisions are applied by all member states europe-wide .
in addition , both airports and airlines need to look closely at their practices , as they too are responsible far too often for the high percentage of delays incurred .
moreover , this report reveals some mismanagement in the allocation of the structural funds .
beyond the overall picture , considerable differences in implementation have persisted between the different objectives as well as between the member states and the regions .
the difference between the budgetary appropriations and the final implementation remains a problem particularly affecting objective 2 .
moreover the full utilisation of the structural funds in 1998 , or at least in terms of the percentages mentioned earlier , has only been possible thanks to a compensation mechanism for under-implementation , such as major transfer of credits from objective 2 to objective 1 .
furthermore , we ask for a fairer distribution of expenditure , more transparency in the allocation and control of the funds , better eligibility criteria , a reduction in the number of priority objectives and community initiatives .
i would firstly likely to remind you that the objective of the funds is to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the european union and that , while it is true that the gdp per capita in the regions with the lowest rate increased by 9 % between 1986 and 1996 , over the same period the income per capita in the four poorest countries rose by 8 % .
nevertheless , the difference when compared to the 25 richest regions continues to be the same : two and a half times .
a second factor is that only 10 % of the interventions from the funds correspond to local development measures , despite the fact that most population and poverty is found in urban centres .
all of these issues point to the need for a series of criteria to be taken into account in the future .
secondly , we need to develop policies which will reduce the disparities between the richest countries and the poorest countries .
lastly , we must take account of all sections of the population with the real objective of creating ever more employment , especially in the least-favoured regions .
mr president , commissioner , as someone with a local government background , i should like to stress the need for local government agencies to become more involved at all levels , particularly when programmes are being formulated and implemented .
i should also like to stress the need for greater coordination between european regional policy and other community policies and between the structural funds and other funding mechanisms .
the principle of additionality must be taken into serious account and i believe that the member states and the commission , in the light of forthcoming enlargement , will have to work together to draw up and adopt guidelines defining a more integrated approach to verifying the application of this principle , taking into account , of course , the particular economic situation in each member state .
in closing , i feel i must congratulate the rapporteur on his comprehensive report and stress the fact that on the whole , the implementation of the programmes financed by the various funds was on the right track in 1998 , the year covered by the report and a good year overall , in which the relative delays of previous years were recouped .
there seems to be a problem with this generally , perhaps due to a lack of staff , and the commission must ensure that it takes the measures needed to ensure that the implementation of european policies continues to be monitored .
mr president , commissioner , i especially welcome paragraph 20 on additionality and hope very much that the commission will take particular account of the importance of transparency .
i would add that this should also relate to the question of whether the principle is being complied with , not just overall by member states , but at regional levels within them .
finally , i believe that there is a great deal of merit in amendment no 5 .
management at this level allows for a high degree of coordination and exchange of best practice between those involved .
i offer as an example our objective 3 partnership 's development of a tool kit for gender mainstreaming in structural funding .
it is vital for the concept of subsidiarity to be brought into the heart of our notion of structural funding and for the regional , local and national authorities within member states to be fully engaged in the process of implementing the structural funds and applying them .
perhaps commissioner barnier will not be surprised if i bang home again on the point that whatever might have been the failures of the past , he has the opportunity to make successes in the future and to ensure that the additionality principle is not just a formal principle requiring member states to satisfy certain budgetary conditions in a global way .
rather it should become a substantive principle built into the idea of subsidiarity which he and president prodi are researching so that at regional and national level within member states we can see that the funds really are being used to enhance and improve development .
to help reduce regional disparities and achieve economic and social cohesion ; in numerous cases , the situation has worsened and the gulf between the regions lagging behind and the developed areas has widened both in rural areas , especially island and mountain regions , and also in urban areas , which are plagued by mass and long-term unemployment , poverty , and a scarcity , or in many cases , a total lack of basic infrastructures .
epirus acquired the dubious accolade of being the poorest region in the european union .
the scarcity of resources under the damoclean sword of agenda 2000 and persistent cutbacks in order to satisfy other requirements , such as enlargement , do nothing to strengthen cohesion or stabilize development levels ; on the contrary , they help set further socio-economic degeneration of the regions in motion .
president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , this sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation of the regions of the union , which was adopted last year by the commission , indicated that the 25 richest regions of the european union still had an average gdp per head that was two and a half times higher than that in the 25 poorest regions , and my fellow members have also reminded us of this .
the development gap between the member states has certainly been reduced , but there are still disparities between the regions , not only with regard to the gdp per head , but also , particularly , in terms of unemployment .
in its 1998annual report on the structural funds , the commission notes , rightly so , that high regional unemployment leads to social exclusion , hence making unemployment even more resistant to economic improvement .
the commission has promised that the emphasis in the new programming period for the structural funds will be on improving transport networks , particularly in the peripheral or outermost regions , and on creating sustainable and effective transport systems that provide a balance between the different modes of transport .
people in work are a guarantee of peace and freedom in europe .
the structural funds cannot operate in isolation .
the structural funds are therefore very important and have to function well .
finally , mr president , i want to emphasise that the whole of the eu must share in european growth .
his report states clearly that the results of the 1994-9 structural funds programming period , taking into account the assessments available at the end of 1998 , have not met expectations on a number of fronts .
i would like to devote my speaking time to responding as precisely as possible to each one of you on the most important points and , first of all , on the implementation of the funds for 1998 .
there is the innovative aspect of most of the programmes , a new approach based on partnership and the inherent difficulty in implementing transnational programmes , by both national and regional authorities .
with regard to implementation , mr esclope , since you mentioned the inequality between the different member states regarding implementation , i think i am right in saying that part of the explanation you are looking for lies in the inevitably different nature of the programmes and projects according to the countries or regions .
we are well aware that it is the countries and regions that propose the projects which , i repeat , are very different .
there are still unjustified , unacceptable gaps between regions , and between the group of the poorest regions and the group of the richest regions .
finally , thirdly , completing thematic cross-sector evaluations , in particular with regard to small and medium-sized businesses , equal opportunities or partnership .
i have noticed that these evaluations are gradually bearing fruit , in particular the new programmes for the period 2000-2006 .
there is still progress to be made in this area , but it must be noted that the evaluation culture seems to me to be more prevalent today in all the departments of the commission and also among the programme managers .
with regard to control , the new legislation also gives the member states direct responsibility for controls concerning programmes carried out on their territory .
in particular , i will think about this in the joint discussions on the nature of the new regional policy for 2006-2013 .
i must therefore find , in conjunction with my staff , the optimum balance between and coordination of , on the one hand , the desire expressed by some of you earlier for greater decentralisation , greater trust in the member states and the regions and , on the other , your requirement for rigour , which is also required of me by the court of auditors , in order to be able to be accountable to the taxpayers .
your rapporteur quite rightly remarks that in 1998 the commission did not carry out enough on-the-spot checks .
actually , mr turco , in spite of the importance attached by the commission to proper financial management of the programmes and to reliable controls , i must point out that the resources at my disposal did not enable us to carry out as many controls as we would have wished .
for objective 1 programmes , as was formerly the case , but also for objective 2 and 3 programmes , taken together , this verification will be carried out on the basis of samples and will concern solely the active measures of the labour market .
this new system will make it possible to have an overall view of the implementation of the additionality principle , including for objective 2 , which as you know , presented great statistical problems during the previous period .
the commission had also proposed a link between the verification of this additionality and the allocation of the performance reserve , but , as you also know , this link has not been adopted by the legislator .
i would , however , like to remind you of my desire to verify the reality of this additionality and i would also like to say - as i have said to several member states - that the verification of this principle , the reality of additionality will be a criterion for the admissibility and approval of new programmes .
you asked me about your draft article 5 .
once again , i am bound by article 11 of the general regulation on structural funds which , at least until 2006 , does not allow the decentralisation or delegation of the executive powers of the commission to sub-national bodies , as you call them : the autonomous communities , regions , and lander .
the principle of partnership is one which the commission hopes to make as comprehensive as possible .
but the commission goes much further with the new legislation for 2000-2006 .
this is how the cross-sector theme in their annual report for 1998 should be considered , for example , the actions supporting local development and , i would like to announce , actions in favour of equal opportunities and sexual equality in the report for 1999 .
this is a field in which the commission adopted , in 1998 , a communication reconciling the map of regional state aid with the map of regions eligible for the structural funds and on this subject , i regularly have constructive dialogues with mario monti , my fellow commissioner with responsibility for such matters .
this is also the case for the environment , within the scope of the new programmes for 2000 2006 .
the objective of the fund is to support the development of the weakest regions in order to step up economic and social cohesion within the union , and you stressed the lack of progress made in this area .
you know , ladies and gentlemen , of the personal interest that i will continue to take , within the commission , in the future and the development of the outermost regions .
ladies and gentlemen , it is right for parliament to make demands on the commission with regard to the implementation of the structural funds and their impact , and you have presented new requirements .
the draft resolution reflects this wish , this requirement , by asking the commission to provide yet more information in the annual report .
however , for a few years we have chosen to make the annual report more concise , which , moreover , was formally requested by the european parliament at the time .
we shall therefore continue our efforts in favour of readability and the task of explanation , while being more precise in order to respond to your requests .
thank you very much , commissioner barnier .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
basic freedoms in serbia and kosovo the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : b5-0568 / 2000 by mr dupuis and others , on behalf of the technical group of independent members ; b5-0569 / 2000 by mrs pack and mr posselt , on behalf of the group of the european people 's party ( christian democrats ) and the european democrats ; b5-0572 / 2000 by mr lagendijk and others , on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance ; b5-0574 / 2000 by mr haarder and mrs malmstrom , on behalf of group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0577 / 2000 by mr brie and others , on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0579 / 2000 by mr wiersma and mr swoboda , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists on basic freedoms in serbia and in kosovo .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we have just had a chance to speak with some young lawyers from serbia , who gave us an impressive account of the hopeless situation in their country .
anyone who sees the facts as they are is treated as a traitor to the serbian people and a nato lackey .
one of the young serbian women told me that it is extraordinarily difficult for her to explain to her grandmother why she opposes milosevic , as her grandmother only has her own information and experiences to go by .
this means that she cannot understand why this young woman is involved in the otpor organisation .
we must help the independent democratic media in serbia so that they can provide accurate information as far as possible , and so that democracy may yet blossom in serbia .
otpor , the real resistance group in serbia , which grew out of the student movement , is as at present being prevented by milosevic from registering as an organisation .
the situation in these prisons is indescribable .
she was sentenced to 14 years in prison in serbia , in nis .
we must attempt to at least give these people some certainty about where these missing persons are , what prisons they are in or where they met their death .
in kosovo , which we also visited , although the situation is different , there are similar problems .
we went to kosovo last year because we wanted to help the kosovo albanians who for ten years have suffered under an apartheid-like regime to obtain attention .
but in kosovo there is also the problem of missing serbs , which we are all familiar with .
that being the case , we must help these well intentioned serbs to achieve some positive results , so that their cooperation is clearly of some benefit for the serbian population .
that is why i appeal to all the member states to send as many police officers as possible to kosovo , in order to guarantee protection for minorities also .
i also know how hard it is to act as opposition in this situation , and not to despair or give up .
it is also important to give these signals , because otherwise the opposition feels isolated and loses all its drive .
i therefore call on the commission to take every opportunity , in all its talks with representatives of the serbian government or embassies , to present the list of prisoners and to request information on each prisoner .
for the sake of the credibility of the international community it is therefore a matter of urgency for us to protect the minorities and give them genuine opportunities for living and working there .
the serbs , roma and other minorities have a right to live there !
mr president , fellow members , this resolution deals in a meticulous way with a number of practical problems .
i shall not repeat them , as our president , doris pack , has explained them better than we could .
having said this , i think it is time for the european parliament and also the commission and the council to engage in a debate - and i know that the president of our delegation does not entirely share this point of view - on the future status of kosovo , the future status of bosnia , and therefore also , directly , that of serbia .
there is another fact that merits our attention : the presence , in a country with less than two million inhabitants , of over fifty thousand westerners with a standard of living 10 , 15 , 20 times higher than that of the kosovars , cannot but present many problems in terms of discrimination and inequality , and is not without secondary effects that are not always as secondary as all that , and are in fact very serious and often very problematic , or even truly adverse .
having said that , i am not questioning the role of the kfor , the role of the united nations in kosovo , at all , but we cannot consider and plan an " occupation " of kosovo for many years without running serious risks .
six years after the signature of the dayton agreements in 1995 , with a bosnia that is still not a country where things run smoothly , with a bosnia comprising two or even three entities , we must urgently put an end to all these problems and the commission and the council must urgently propose ways of overcoming these situations which were designed to be interim situations .
in particular , i do not think we can avoid the idea of a federation between kosovo and albania , nor can we avoid associations between certain parts of bosnia and serbia .
i can , unfortunately , also testify to what the debate here ought especially to be about , namely the fact that it is now the serbs who are being persecuted by people who act with spite towards them , throw stones at them , burn their houses down and attempt to drive them from their homes .
now , it is the serbs who need our attention .
the police are doing everything possible , but nothing like the promised number of police has arrived .
mr president , one year on from the end of the nato bombing of yugoslavia , the situation is unstable and the opposing forces in serbia are giving increasing cause for concern .
many of the men , women and students who are victims of oppression today are the same people who have courageously spoken up in these past years , calling for peace , freedom and respect for human rights , and who have , in reality , been abandoned even by europe .
and those who have remained are regularly attacked and , in many cases , killed .
the most recent unhcr / osce report states clearly that , in kosovo , minorities have no access to education , health and public services and no freedom of movement .
in my opinion , europe , and , in particular , the 19 nato countries , should undertake a large-scale self-appraisal operation and revise its policies .
it may be that we should be the ones to give them strong support in serbia and kosovo .
milosevic is creating dictatorial conditions , a country governed by security troops , state media and state terror .
ccl recently branded them terrorists .
all in all , a situation is being created in which democracy is becoming a farce and the regime is trying to keep a grip on the situation by means of totalitarian manipulation .
we need to remain involved , and it is also useful that we , as a parliament , are here today expressing our broad consensus on the situation and on how the situation in serbia is to be addressed .
we must make one thing crystal clear once and for all : our criticism has never been aimed at the people of serbia , but against those in power who are abusing the name of the serbian people for their own criminal ends .
we must at the same time be very much aware that the issue of protecting minorities also affects serbia .
the albanians driven out of core serbia scarcely get a mention in our media , yet they are significantly aggravating the situation in this region .
in this context i would like to make it very clear that it is crucial for us not just to point the finger of blame at others , but also to fulfil our own obligations .
mr president , we find ourselves gazing with bewilderment at each new act by the milosevic regime , acts against its own people .
that is why i think it is important to maintain constant contact with the opposition and to attempt to bring about a change in the political scene .
i also believe that funding for increased information provision should be implemented here and now , so as to provide more objective information about the actual conditions in the balkans .
this does not apply to serbs living in kosovo , nor indeed to those serbs who have fled kosovo and are now living in yugoslavia .
in his annual report , the un secretary-general notes that , one year on from the deployment of kfor , we face a well-developed , organised and well-orchestrated campaign against the serbs and other ethnic groups in kosovo , which is undermining confidence in the future and transforming kosovo into a breeding ground for retaliation and crime .
the un high commissioner and the osce have condemned the fact that , one year on from the arrival of the kfor forces in the area , the minorities living in kosovo , mainly serbs and gypsies , are still unprotected .
only the european parliament seems incapable , including in today ' s resolution , of drawing any conclusions from the tragic situation which has arisen in this area as a result of the military incursions of nato forces into an independent member state of the un , in violation of the fundamental principles of international law .
after all , the resolution speaks out unmistakably about the undemocratic nature of the milosevic regime in belgrade and the means it deploys in order to exercise power .
this medical doctor forms part of the political leadership of the moderate serbs in kosovo .
in kosovo , violence is a daily event , and the democratic forces in montenegro are at risk from threats from outside and from polarisation within .
so it is not surprising that the milosevic regime is now taking a harder line than before against the independent media .
a time when a regime has to repress any freedom of expression is a time when it feels particularly weak and under attack .
that is why it is right that demands are being made here for the european union to use its resources to bolster the independent media in serbia .
if it is possible to do yet more in this area , then the commission is of course willing to look into this .
we have , of course , already reacted to media repression in many cases in the past .
i believe that it is very important to demonstrate that democratic developments in serbia will be rewarded and will receive a positive response .
against this background i would like to stress that we regard it as being particularly important to strengthen and stabilise the democratic developments that have already started in croatia , as croatia in particular is also capable of exerting a positive influence on serbia .
with regard to montenegro , i must say that we certainly welcome the democratic way in which the most recent municipal elections in podgorica and herceg novi have been conducted .
i am also pleased , in view of all the laborious history of this , that the council has now finally agreed to grant montenegro an emergency support budget of eur 20 million .
the european union will always condemn such violence with equal force .
not only is the credibility of the policies of the european union and its member states at stake , it is also imperative , if we wish to achieve our objectives in kosovo , for us to provide the minimum level of police presence required to guarantee stability .
it is in everyone ' s interest to ensure cooperation between all kosovo ' s citizens , on the basis of common institutions .
the commission also supports unmik ' s endeavours in the area of local administration by means of twinning projects and by advertising posts in unmik ' s civil administration and the pillars of the reconstruction programme as widely as possible in all the member states .
i consider it extraordinarily important that the european parliament has today once again held an in-depth debate on the resolution before us on the situation in the western balkans , and that this not only expresses our concern but above all demonstrates our shared determination not to leave our work in this region only half done .
we have held a high-quality debate lasting for over an hour on the most important topic in europe today .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
mr president , the european union and this parliament have followed recent events in the republic of paraguay with great concern .
the second event which has been followed with great interest by this parliament was the arrest on 11 june , of general oviedo .
in this context , we in this parliament must , in my opinion , support full democratic consolidation in the republic of paraguay and appeal for the correct operation of the rule of law and justice in that country .
mr president , it seems to me to be particularly appropriate to point out that the defence of democracy and the rule of law is the cornerstone of the policy of cooperation with the countries of latin america .
the respect for democratic values is , and must continue to be , the central pillar of political dialogue between the european union and the countries of mercosur , both on a regional level and on a bilateral level .
good evidence of this can be found in the ambitious institutional support programmes which the european union has been developing in paraguay since 1995 .
these projects , mr president , are fundamental in a country whose constitution only dates from 1992 , whose first elections took place in 1993 , which suffered 50 years of dictatorship and which , therefore , is very much in need of democratic stability and institutional continuity .
mr president , i believe that both the european union and the united states , which have expressed their support for the government of paraguay , while recognising that efforts are being made to consolidate a certain degree of democratic stability , must also remind the paraguayan authorities of the urgent need to take measures on institutional consolidation and to begin also to resolve the great economic and social problems in that country .
having pointed out the importance of our institutional support and cooperation in paraguay , i do not wish to end without reminding you that the european union still has no office in paraguay .
i believe that a european commission delegation in asuncion would not only aid and improve our relations , but could also contribute in a significant way to the achievement of these objectives which are so important to all those of us who believe in the democratic clause , which is the foundation of these agreements and our relations with that country .
we can help considerably in this field , by appropriately implementing the contents of the european union ' s agreements with the mercosur countries and in particular the agreement with paraguay , which is so necessary .
we therefore believe that our action in this area can be decisive and we would also like to express our full support for the joint resolution which we have signed .
mr president , fellow members , the greens , like several other groups , had tabled a motion for a resolution on paraguay .
as you are aware , the situation in paraguay is characterised not only by a revolutionary tendency in certain sections of the army but , more generally , by very serious human rights violations and the harsh suppression of popular movements .
we have tried , in our resolution , to emphasise both these factors simultaneously .
the resolution before us simply pays tribute to the initiative used by another southern cone country to arrest the leader of a military coup d ' etat and extradite him to his country of origin .
we welcome this initiative on the part of brazil , but to say that and nothing more would mean framing a resolution on brazil , not paraguay .
we would have liked the european union to exploit the methods of democratic persuasion afforded due to the aid it provides to all the southern cone countries in order to encourage the legitimate government in paraguay to show greater respect for human rights .
unfortunately , in the current wording of the resolution , this is not the case , and we consequently prefer to vote against the joint motion for a resolution and , if necessary , maintain our own motion for a resolution .
it therefore makes sense that the european parliament , which has always regarded itself as the patron saint of democracy in latin america and elsewhere , should express its views on this .
the second point that i would like to mention relates to paraguay and brazil .
we believe that paraguay is probably a forgotten country , which has been helped by its integration into mercosur , and , from that point of view , it is important that our relations with paraguay should improve the situation , and that brussels should find a way to help that country and at the same time remind it , as we will surely do later in the case of peru , of the democratic clause which is the inspiration for all our actions .
other equally positive signs are the reduction in corruption and the hope that general oviedo , like pinochet , will be tried .
mr president , it is appropriate today for the european parliament to turn its attention to paraguay and express its solidarity with the paraguayan people , who still face considerable difficulties and uncertainties in their effort to consolidate a democratic regime .
the history of paraguay is one of the saddest and most unjust in latin america .
for those of us who for many years have sided with the resistance in that country , it is painful to remember how , in the 60s and 70s , there were at least three good reasons to feel sorrow .
paraguay was probably the only country in the world whose population had been practically exterminated during wars with its two neighbours , argentina and brazil .
at that time , paraguay was the only country which had considerably more population outside its borders than inside , with exiles , outcasts and emigrants of every type .
lastly , paraguay held the tragic record of suffering the longest dictatorship in the whole of latin america , headed by general stroessner .
that dictatorship displayed the most extraordinary cruelty in its repression of any opposition , and at the same time its dictator and his entourage was enormously corrupt , with their monopoly on big business and , in particular , smuggling .
the paraguayan people never gave in .
in this context , and with oviedo under arrest in brazil , the resolution we are voting on in parliament is a great opportunity .
the european union has already been active in paraguay for a good many years .
our attempts to have a concrete influence on the situation there have focused on two areas .
we can help to develop these institutions , but the political will really to establish them , to use them and take advantage of them has to come from those who are currently in power in paraguay .
i would like to mention in particular that this includes a special programme supporting the indigenous population of the chaco region .
but as yet no decision has been taken to change the situation in paraguay in this respect .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
mr president , on 16 march , this parliament adopted a resolution on the presidential and legislative elections in peru , in which it expressed its confidence , within the context of cooperation in our relations with peru , that the presidential and legislative elections would be held in a fair and transparent manner , in accordance with the universally held principles of democratic systems .
the presidency of the european union , in its declaration of 9 june this year , expressed its enormous concern at the irregularities and anomalies detected .
despite the fluid relations which the european union maintains with peru , which are embodied in the cooperation agreement with the andean pact which has been in force since 1998 , we should remember once again that these very relations are based on the universally recognised principles of respect for pluralist democracy , the rule of law and human rights .
on the basis of these principles , the european union must carefully assess the necessary response to this delicate situation resulting from the elections of 28 may .
the council of ministers of the european union , in its declaration of 9 june , has decided not to adopt sanctions against peru at the moment .
the meeting of chancellors of the organisation of american states in ottawa , having heard the report of the electoral mission headed by eduardo stein , has decided to send a new mission , which will include the canadian minister of foreign affairs and the secretary-general of the organisation of american states , in order to ensure that the government of peru is adopting the necessary measures to re-establish democratic legality .
the oas has not adopted sanctions against peru at the moment either .
this mission seems to me to be particularly appropriate since the european union is the main provider of development aid and economic cooperation , and it is also the main investor in peru .
mr president , since you have asked us not to take up the time allotted , and in summary , i will say that one of the main contributions which the european union could make in this difficult situation - and i believe there is good reason , as i have just pointed out , not to leave the matter exclusively in the hands of the organisation of american states - should be , in my opinion , to promote , on the basis of a guarantee of the full exercise of all civil and political rights , a consensus amongst all the forces which would allow democracy to be recovered , strengthened and deepened in peru .
let me remind you that the conditions of this election , at least in the second round , were so disastrous that not only did the main opposition candidate withdraw , but so did all the international observers .
in these circumstances , it could be concluded , even before the election , that the election was not valid .
the excess vote was around 20 % in some places .
so not only was there no opposition , but it was even necessary to resort to fraud in order to obtain the figure of 51 % .
unlike the case of paraguay , we are not going to see this as a reason for voting against the resolution .
you know that the organisation of american states goes further than the european parliament ' s joint proposal apparently does , as this organisation is actually volunteering to suggest a democratic way out of the political crisis which peru is stuck in over this matter .
we are simply suggesting that the parliament should approve the current efforts of the organisation of american states to find a legal , peaceful way out of the crisis .
these are the two amendments that would enable us simply to support the joint motion for a resolution .
mr president , it is clear that president fujimori has challenged the international community and , in particular , the organisation of american states and also the european union .
therefore , from our point of view , as well as lamenting the situation and supporting the democratic forces , it is still absolutely essential that , as we did in the previous case of paraguay , we remind peru of the need for any relations with the european union to be maintained in compliance with the democratic clause .
secondly , only by sending observers will we be able to assess the true situation and find a way to act appropriately .
therefore , since two recent days , 9 april and 28 may , have caused us great concern , it is clear that we will only be able to act appropriately if we send observers , which we hope will be possible , and who we hope will be able to act effectively .
the president of peru has for years been failing to play by the rules that we expect in a democracy .
mr president , the situation in peru worries us .
president fujimori took power with dangerous plans : to give absolute priority to supposed economic efficiency , claiming that a strong hold on power was required to manage it , and to overcome what he called ' party-ocracy ' , subliminally blaming all the previous problems on the institutions of the democratic state .
in summary , that is what our resolution says , and it is good and appropriate that the european parliament ' s voice should be heard in this respect , for our own dignity , and in order to demonstrate our interest in the democratic process in latin america , but also in order to demonstrate our support , which the peruvian democrats need and deserve .
while we are voting in favour of the resolution in question , i would like to point out two issues relating to its text .
my second point is that i regret the fact that the resolution does not refer to the disappointing role played by the organisation of american states throughout this process .
in its statement of 9 june , the european union stressed that it would support the oas mission to peru .
we will be following the situation in peru with the greatest vigilance and are prepared to rethink our relations with peru against this background .
the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed .
as planned , mr turco ' s report , which we debated this afternoon , will be put to the vote during voting time which begins in a few moments .
i would simply like to thank all the honourable members for providing such a clear demonstration on the subject of friday ' s vote of " whittling away " .
if we want to deal with a serious agenda , then we need to attend .
vote ( continuation ) mr president , before you take the final vote , amendment no 3 to paragraph 28 is on the voting list as by the tdi group .
mr president , first of all , this technical amendment has been voted upon , and i do not see why we have to come back to it .
the amendment has been voted upon as i announced it .
mr president , i would just like to say that , in my opinion , amendments should be accepted or rejected on the basis of their content and not on the basis of who has put their name to them .
it is ridiculous for members to say after the vote that they would not have voted in favour of an amendment because a particular group tabled that amendment .
explanations of vote - tunisia ( b5-0508 / 2000 ) mr president , i abstained from the vote on the report on tunisia because i do not feel that this type of document serves much purpose .
since we are discussing the protection of freedom and human rights , i would like to take this opportunity to say that a serious violation , or rather an attempt at violation of the right to freedom of speech took place today in the parliament forecourt .
this is because this is the only means given us by parliamentary procedure through which we are able to express our protest against the dictatorship in tunisia .
mr president , i voted for the marset campos report and i will tell you why , although i would first like to express my support for mr speroni ' s speech .
in fact , on reading the commission document and the report by the european parliament , we see that this was not the case .
yes , the need to harmonise asylum standards is broadly recommended by these texts .
for example , it condemns the disparities in the way refugees are treated from one country to the next but does not provide examples .
there may be perfectly legitimate reasons for these disparities , relating to the special features of a country , its culture or its links with former colonies .
so , in fact , we are currently trying to solve a problem largely created by the treaty of amsterdam itself and , what is more , we are going to solve it to our disadvantage as it is clear that asylum standards cannot be harmonised from the bottom up - for who would dare ? - but rather towards the top with all the in-draughts normally caused by this type of policy .
in order to escape , we can only invite the governments to exercise the utmost caution , retain as much power as possible , and interpret article 63 of the treaty of amsterdam narrowly .
mr president , this explanation of vote is also shared by arlette laguiller and armonie bordes .
this means that although , in some european countries , the application of this text could in theory improve the situation of asylum seekers , it would make it worse in others .
furthermore , i consider that it would be appropriate for the commission to apply this decision retroactively and share the burden borne by those who accepted kosovar refugees between the member states of the european union .
mr president , i abstained in the vote because i do not consider that these texts serve much purpose .
we are against a communist , dictatorial europe which eradicates the identity of peoples by eliminating the differences between them .
the asylum issue is a major political issue concerning fundamental democratic rights , the safeguarding of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual and the preservation of human dignity .
asylum seekers in the member states of the eu must be treated in a dignified and humane manner .
the dublin convention allows asylum applications to be made only in the first state entered by the refugee .
the aim of the schmitt report is clear : " to re-enhance the reputation and substance of the right of asylum , the qualification procedure should be tightened up , and abuses resolutely curbed " .
moreover , the states on the edges of the schengen zone are considered to be " secure " .
finally , this report , just like many others relating to immigration management , is unrealistic and highly populist .
this is why the members of the national front and i myself will vote against this report which jeopardises people ' s rights and security and also democracy .
this same committee discovers the laws of democracy when it suggests that the discrepancies from one country to the next are linked to the political context as much as to the content of the applications .
the political will of this house is , in this field as in any other , to extend the scope of community power to the detriment of the member states , who are apparently unworthy of such power .
either the member states have their own policy , for which they are responsible and which they therefore finance , or the european union " communitises " this field and includes the costs in its budget .
if such and such a country finds its policy too expensive , let it change the policy .
we do not want a community policy in the hands of the commission , nor do we want the policy of another government : we want our people and their elected representatives to retain control over their own decisions and destiny .
coordination of the member states ' responsibilities is necessary if countries are in practice to be able to pursue generous policies on refugees .
we therefore welcome the commission ' s working document in principle , together with ingo schmitt ' s report on the drawing up of a common policy on asylum and refugees , but we emphasise that it ought not to be the least generous countries which set the standards .
nor must we forget that refugees and immigrants have a positive influence on the member states .
what is more , it is important that refugees should in principle be entitled to the same social benefits as other people resident in the particular country dealing with the application for asylum .
this basic principle is established in the geneva convention and must be given due attention and complied with .
the aim of the schmitt report is to extend this degrading and inhumane system to the entire european union .
instead , the rapporteur complains that people " wrongfully lay claim " to the right of asylum in europe .
with regard to accepting asylum-seekers , the schmitt report demands " burden sharing " within the eu .
the european parliament must make proposals that take account of the interests of refugees and asylum-seekers in the european union .
everyone seeking refuge in the eu must have access to a just and fair reception procedure .
in france , our most famous asylum seeker was general de gaulle , who was able to benefit from the right of asylum in england in order to prepare the resistance .
in my opinion , the standards set by the report are too low .
thus , persecuted afghan women who are stoned for not wearing the chador , should without exception benefit from the right of asylum .
the report remains vague on this subject .
i abstained on amendment no 14 .
but i am against the actual idea of systematically collecting information , as by eurodac , as i am against the very idea of accelerated procedures , which can give rise to many forms of abuse .
report sorensen ( a5-0126 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , i welcome the commission ' s decision to adopt rules on compensating victims of crimes in the european union .
in europe , it is no longer possible for the elderly to set foot out of doors , not only at night but during the day as well in some areas .
we therefore applaud those sentiments in the sorensen report which support our view .
once again , europe has shown its great sense of responsibility in taking an interest in crime victims .
report turco ( a5-0138 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , i voted for the turco report although i would have preferred to vote against it for it resembles a final balance sheet and is , above all , a very tedious report on the allocation and use of the structural funds in 1998 .
personally , i am convinced that the european union must completely change the way it allocates aid to those in need of its support .
one further aspect concerns another governing motif for the current period : regional and local development and related issues .
new actions based on local initiatives carried out in a partnership framework have recently been introduced to boost the profile of this motif .
the commission mentions this in its report but provides an overview , confining itself to general aspects and not providing a detailed evaluation , so to speak , of the frauds , still less revealing the means used to combat fraud in the past or those to be used in the future .
this last aspect is , in fact , an unambiguous indication of commitment and political determination .
extremely serious remarks were made regarding the president of the commission , the republic of italy - our country - and 25 april , which is the date of liberation of italy from the nazis .
but freedom of speech must be upheld !
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , commissioner , as you all know , the objective of the cohesion fund is to contribute to economic and social cohesion and at the same time reduce regional and social disparities , through solidarity amongst the member states .
thanks to this fund , numerous countries of the european union have had the opportunity to try to lessen the distance between themselves and the wealthier countries , and the results have been spectacular but insufficient .
the income per capita has increased from two thirds to three quarters of the community average and the participation of the european funds in the growth of each of these four countries stood at an average of 0.5 % per year .
in this respect , we should consider a series of programmes for the future which will allow the new members to achieve convergence with the european union while , at the same time , the four countries which receive cohesion funds should continue to receive them so that they can achieve the true objectives of convergence , growth and the generation of full employment .
secondly , another problem is the temptation of some wealthier countries to penalise those countries which , since they receive cohesion funds , have achieved nominal convergence on the basis of serious , responsible , sympathetic and rigorous structural and economic policies , but clearly still without achieving true convergence , by eliminating them , in this case , from the cohesion fund , which could give rise to two possible situations .
thirdly , we should pay greater attention to sustainable means of transport .
we are talking about the cohesion fund and the 1998 audit , on which there is a regulation and criteria which have already been approved for 2000-2006 and we do not believe that this is the moment to change the criteria with regard to eligibility and the distribution of those funds .
mr president , honourable members , commissioner , today , eight years on from maastricht , the cohesion fund has , without a shadow of doubt , made a positive contribution towards promoting the economic and social cohesion of the regions of the eu and has had clear results in tackling social and regional disparities .
we would therefore like to commend the commission for its actions so far in implementing the objectives of the fund and we urge it to continue its efforts to ensure that the fund is used properly and helps improve its efficiency in the new programme period still further .
we must , of course , stress that the environmental aid granted continues to concentrate on the water sector , despite the need in many other cases for other measures to preserve , protect and improve the quality of the environment and the rational utilization of natural resources as laid down in article 174 of the treaty , which refers to reafforestation , land reclamation , etc .
even when measured strictly the cohesion fund has clearly played an important socio economic role in infrastructures with development potential .
we are delighted to note the increase in employment , the absence of fraud , the greatly increased monitoring and the proper implementation of the programmes .
the principle of cohesion considered in the treaty must not come under threat during enlargement .
it concerns a subject which is of great interest to me personally , given the commitment of the european union in favour of the countries which are furthest behind in development and which are catching up with the support of european solidarity .
we are talking about a budget of almost eur 17 billion for the period now beginning , 2000 2006 .
but if we look back over the last ten years , including the year cited in this report , 1998 , i would say to the members here and to all those listening to us that the four countries that were the furthest behind , ireland , greece , spain and portugal , have gained ten points in ten years in relation to the community average gross domestic product .
furthermore , several speakers from all parties have thanked him .
the form of the report is just as important as its content .
he may be sure that the commissioner for regional policy , who was once minister for the environment in his own country , is extremely supportive of this move and will oversee it personally , particularly in the programming of the cohesion fund for the next six years .
the priority was to allow the member states to respect the deadlines set in implementation of the directive on waste water , and we are well aware that the problems that i have just mentioned , in particular the matter of waste or water treatment , are problematic in the countries concerned .
i have been able to see this personally in the azores and i know that the situation is the same in the greek islands , to use these two examples : these problems are particularly difficult in the case of remote , outermost or isolated island regions .
also , with regard to the specific problems concerning the environment and thinking of islands in particular , i would like to express my wish to support investment in favour of renewable energy , and i have made this known to the member states .
having talked about content , i would like to say a word or two about form , and first of all reply to the comments of your rapporteur on the study on the socio-economic effects of the cohesion fund ordered by the commission .
the commission , which has just received this study , is currently analysing it , and in any case , it will be sent to you as soon as possible .
this is why the structural funds programmes currently being negotiated by the commission with the member states of cohesion include indicative sums for both cohesion fund aid and european investment bank aid .
the information requested by parliament is available in the individual programming documents .
in addition , i would like to emphasise that the recent restructuring of the directorate-general for regional policy brings together the geographical teams and power within the same units for structural funds and the cohesion fund , so that cohesion countries , which are eligible for structural funds in most cases , will have the same contacts within this directorate-general .
this seems to me to be a more consistent approach for these countries .
but consistency between the structural funds and the cohesion fund also means observing the specificity of these two instruments , in accordance , moreover , with the general regulation on the structural funds .
it would in fact be inappropriate to use the cohesion fund for the same purposes and in the same way as the structural funds .
in any case , i am not in a position to alter the scope of the cohesion fund , which stems directly from the treaty .
mrs schorling , you spoke of the matter of additionality .
i even said that the reality of this additionality would be one of the points which would enable me to validate or approve programmes and projects .
this report is even more useful in that it is comprehensive .
i can also assure you that beyond our regular meetings , the report on cohesion that i shall present to you at the end of this year will respond to a lot of the questions , criticisms and proposals raised by your rapporteur with regard to the pursuit of solidarity regarding countries benefiting from the cohesion fund , particularly in view of the perspective that concerns us all : enlargement .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m .
the proposed method is based on a modern geographic information system in which the cartographic information on holdings is digitised and integrated with the alphanumeric information needed to describe the holding and the aid received .
in terms of control , this method has enormous advantages and significantly reduces the possibility of fraud or any other irregularities .
in my opinion , the integration into the system of virtually all the sectors financed by the cap should be sought .
the recent court of auditors report on classical swine fever shows that , even in areas where the geographic information initially seems less important , this is actually decisive and may form a fundamental instrument in rationalising the common agricultural policy .
for the second , we know that the commission has already proposed the integration of this sector into arable crops but we do not know when and if the commission proposal will be approved .
although it is necessary to fight fraud , we must also prevent the complexity of the system causing a multiplication of minor formal irregularities and farmers being unfairly penalised .
it is unthinkable that a common policy such as the cap should be handled like a collection of fifteen national policies or , even worse , like a pile of unconnected invoices from 80 or 90 national payment authorities .
the commission must process all the geographic information now required from the fifteen member states in a coordinated manner .
nevertheless , it only demands that that information is communicated to them on request and exclusively for the preparation of verifications in situ in the process of the settlement of accounts .
effective administration must be able to provide the institutions responsible with the elements for analysis and decision and amongst these elements is the cost-efficiency index .
this approach must be applied systematically and must be based on the analysis of the payments corresponding to each regulation .
the fact that this information can only be requested for the preparation of verifications in situ in the process of the settlement of accounts sets a time limit on the availability of the fundamental information for administration and control .
therefore , in the first stage of the establishment of this integrated administration and control system , it would be sufficient to regulate the conditions for delivering the information mentioned and the need for the commission to store it .
mr president , we welcome this proposal by the commission to improve the system of control and i should like to thank mr casaca for his report .
mr casaca has made a very good effort to explain it to parliament .
it is extremely important .
it is fair to point out that the most recent report by the court of auditors for the year 1998 has not drawn attention to any single major failure of the commission in this entire area .
there have been problems but they were isolated , small offences , relating to areas of aid and also to premiums and the failure of national governments to understand the details of european law .
but we have to recognise that for the most part the commission was given a clean bill of health for 1998 which is the most recent report we have and it is to be congratulated on that .
the fact that more money is now going directly to farmers makes it easier to understand exactly what is happening .
it is reasonable to expect member states to produce the sort of detail that is necessary for the european commission both from the management point of view as well as that of accounting , to have exact details of where and to whom the money is going , down to the last recipient .
but we spend eur 1 000 million on the tobacco regime .
this is a difficult task which is only possible at all by virtue of technological progress .
in connection with the final discharge , the commission also presented the 1998 monitoring statistics to us .
in 1998 in the 15 community member states there were more than 3 million applications for " area " aid .
as the european parliament rapporteur responsible for anti-fraud measures , i would like to bring a serious problem in this area to your attention .
all the member states report any irregularities to the commission , but only a few member states tell the commission which of these cases are classified as fraudulent .
for example , according to the statistics , in the united kingdom there were 4 995 cases of over-declaration , 971 cases of duplicate applications and 52 cases of " false " applications .
but not one of these cases was classified in the statistics as being fraudulent or as giving rise to suspicions of " serious negligence " .
the far-reaching management and control measures which the commission proposes are therefore very appropriate indeed .
data on payments or revenue in respect of the eaggf , guarantee section , can only be used at the request of the commission for closing accounts .
the existence of this wealth of information should have been a reason for the european commission to adapt regulation 2390 / 99 .
in my opinion , the reservations expressed by the executive , particularly the commission ' s position on article 1 of the proposal , are unfounded .
the products which the rapporteur intends to add to the list all fall within sectors of considerable financial consequence whose control mechanisms have proved to be insufficient .
in fact , these products have all been subject to fraud and irregularity in the past .
on the basis of the above considerations , i therefore call upon the commission and the council to incorporate the position of the committee on budgetary control and , in particular , amendment no 1 and amendment no 2 .
as has also been explained , we have already taken advantage of the charging procedure , by setting a charge for those member states lagging behind in that context also .
the commission must also retain the right to carry out checks in relation to iacs .
the deviations in these 16 incorrect applications were in ten cases between 0 % and 3 % , in four cases between 3 % and 5 % and for only two applications in the entire random sample for the whole community was the deviation over 5 % .
i hope that there will be no further need for negotiations and clarification within the commission .
i simply said that any decision would have to be taken in the framework of the intergovernmental conference .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m .
they are of fundamental importance as a source of supplementary income , which is essential to the maintenance of a large number of rural operations in the least-favoured areas .
furthermore , this production is the basis of a significant primary and secondary processing industry , the key to economic diversification in rural areas which suffer very difficult conditions .
the community ' s level of self-sufficiency in this area is between 50 and 60 % .
for example , in the case of hazelnuts , the costs of production in the european union are three times greater than those in turkey as a result of the differences in labour costs .
tariff protection is very low and is being progressively dismantled following the negotiations within the world trade organisation and other preferential agreements .
despite the fact that the measures laid down in regulation ( eec ) no 789 / 89 have had positive results , they have not managed to balance the cost of production with prices on a market dominated by the enormous pressure of imports at low prices .
the problem is that the support which this production has relied on is coming to an end , while the severe production conditions have not changed , and the competition from third country production has become tougher .
furthermore , american exports to certain third countries enjoy preferential agreements which the european union does not have .
the pressure of imports is such that there is less and less difference in prices between the select varieties and the common varieties , which has a devastating effect .
the difficult growing conditions in the european union prevent competition with third countries and it is not possible to improve competitivity unless we abandon the current production areas and move production to other regions .
for these reasons , commissioner , the committee on agriculture presented the oral question which has led to this debate .
the pressure of imports and the difficult climate and soil conditions demand , therefore , support for community nut production .
these concerns , demands and requests of the committee on agriculture and the political groups in parliament are aimed at seeking a solution which involves the granting of direct aid to the income of producers which , by maintaining that cultivation , will lead to the prevention of environmental damage and depopulation and maintain certain primary and secondary processing industries in the least-favoured areas .
however , none of the programmes submitted to us by the member states , including those member states with substantial agricultural areas , contains any proposals for measures of this kind , so that no such need was evidently identified when drawing up the programmes .
but the commission should not be attacked if it was agreed beforehand that rural development was to be the responsibility of member states and included in their programmes , and if at all possible at regional level within the member states .
mr president , i must thank the commissioner for being present in this almost deserted chamber on a thursday evening .
the commissioner is aware of the problems of nuts in the european union and he is aware that we are dependent on a single supplier in many cases : the united states , on the one hand , in the case of almonds , and turkey , in the case of hazelnuts .
when you tell us that there are structural problems of low productivity and high production costs in the european union , we must ask ourselves whether we want a nut sector or whether we want to be totally dependent on outside sources ?
you tell us that there have had to be negotiations and that there is already aid from the com in fruit and also within the framework of the rural development projects .
in those cases , the operational funds - which are a very small percentage of this global production per hectare , some 1.5 or 2 % - are a reasonable amount to work with .
in the case of production per hectare which amounts to little more than esp 100 000 , i believe that the operational funds of the com in fruits have very little significance and offer very little in terms of resolving the problem of nuts .
with regard to the framework of the rural development projects , the commissioner knows much better than i do that , in rural development , the second pillar of the cap - which we all view with great hope and we congratulate him for having brought it up and united it in one budgetary line - , in the regions where these fruits are grown - which are basically objective 1 regions in some cases , and objective 2 regions in others- , the programmes developed there are leader programmes .
in these leader programmes , and proder programmes in the case of spain , where there are national programmes , which are organised from the bottom up , it will be difficult to consider a specific cultivation as being of strategic interest and as a strategic sector , when these programmes normally deal with problems of general interest .
however , commissioner , what we are proposing to you , and i believe that all the political groups are in agreement on this , is the partial continuation , not continuation sine die , but continuation until a certain date , commissioner , of improvement funds and plans , because in some cases they have still not ended , and in other cases their objectives have still not been fulfilled .
however , these funds are absolutely essential to the maintenance of the crop , as long as nuts are subject to differentiated treatment within the coming reform of the com in fruits and vegetables .
since these producers have the political support of this house , i believe that it would not be justifiable to deny them a few pesetas of economic support .
mr fischler , the european commission must not continue to ignore the requests of the sectors affected .
it must be said that both specific measures for nuts and locust beans , as well as the lump sum aid for hazelnuts , were in fact transitional measures aimed at the conversion of the crops , but there is no reason why they cannot be extended .
commissioner , a conversion in the agricultural sector cannot be treated as if it were a conversion in the industrial sector .
in industry , one can modernise plants and improve productivity , but in the case of certain crops , however much investment is made , however many changes are made in terms of marketing , we cannot alter the fact that certain areas are arid or semi-arid .
we cannot imagine that this problem can be resolved through the scant funds available in the rural development programmes .
that is not the place to find a solution for these areas , as the commissioner and the whole of the commission seems to think .
furthermore , it does not appear that an extension of this aid until the adoption of the measures proposed in the resolution , nor even until the definitive measures themselves are adopted , will cause problems within the conversations in the world trade organisation .
the sector produces a surplus and community protection is minimal .
the commission ' s main argument is that which was agreed ten years ago .
i believe that it is precisely the change in conditions compared to ten years ago which weakens the commission ' s position , and it is therefore important for them to be sensitive to an agreement which originates from the action of certain meps from the committee on agriculture and rural development and the european parliament at the moment .
it is an economic sector , i agree , but it has much greater environmental responsibility than it did ten years ago .
thirdly , if this aid is removed today , the loss of the land recovered over these ten years would be irreversible .
i therefore sincerely believe that there is no margin , either within the framework of rural development or in other areas , because we are not talking about vegetables , we are not talking about any other type of product , we are talking about a very specific product , with very specific circumstances , which were analysed ten years ago and which must be analysed today once again .
for this reason , i believe that it makes absolute sense to carry out a study of a new framework of aid and , in any event , there should be an extension with immediate effect .
mr president , commissioner fischler , ladies and gentlemen , there are not many of us , just the little mediterranean family , trying to defend the crops that brussels does not like .
the fixed aid for hazelnuts in 1996 was temporary .
you tell us that it is expensive , but you are not telling the whole truth .
and as we have told you , we are dealing with regions in spain , in my native languedoc-roussillon , in greece , where the land is arid .
our olives instead of north african olives and our spanish , italian , portuguese , greek , languedoc-roussillon and french mediterranean before anatolia and california , commissioner .
commissioner , in your speech you told us how you viewed the situation , but i can assure you that the industry does not see it in the same way .
for all these reasons , it is not surprising that there is enormous concern in the sector at the possibility that aid may be withdrawn , since without it - and we must recognise this - , given that the future of these operations , as a result of the competition from third countries , is in jeopardy and the investment made in the modernisation of the production systems - which has taken place on a significant scale - will have been pointless .
i would therefore also like to ask you , commissioner , on behalf of the producers in the sector and especially on behalf of the producers in catalonia , for the specific aid to this sector to be continued in the way that has been pointed out here and along the lines of the motion for a resolution which i hope will receive the support of this house .
any other type of aid such as those you have mentioned , above all rural development aid , may be positive in other sectors , it is true , but in this case , given the specific nature of the sector , they are totally insufficient to guarantee the competitiveness , and therefore the survival , of these operations , whose interests the commission - you , commissioner - can in no way ignore .
mr president , here again , i would simply like to draw attention to the fact that , in this crop that i know so well , the return on investment is long term .
but every farmer who has made an investment in this area signed a contract at the outset before he made that investment , so that he knew for exactly how many years he would be receiving investment aid .
if a case is being made that this type of farming is absolutely essential for maintaining the landscape and preserving the environment , particularly in these dry areas , then this is an ideal case for environmental measures .
you cannot argue that this is an important form of agriculture if it is obviously not important enough for the regional authorities to give it priority and grant support for it .
i understand that the first point of order ever raised in the directly-elected parliament in 1979 was by the reverend doctor ian paisley and his point was that the british flag was flying upside-down .
i am advised that it is the most popular flag to be stolen in this place .
mr president , last year , the majority of meps in this house voted in favour of friday morning sittings .
i am therefore using the time available to me to make this statement .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , regulation no 302 / 93 , the amendment of which is the subject of this report , establishes and regulates the operations of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction .
in the meantime , new figures have come to light , as a result both of its operating experiences and from the so-called " independent assessment report " , published this march , and even as a result of developments in the union itself , in its acquis and in the challenges it faces .
as the recent report on the assessment of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction emphasised , that institution has made an enormous contribution to european drugs policy , as it has filled in the gaps in our information and knowledge about this issue .
the same report concluded that the monitoring centre has undertaken an impressive number of projects since its inception , and these have provided added value for the european fight against drugs .
the work undertaken on synthetic drugs has stood out for its efficiency and timeliness .
the committee took into particular consideration the 1999 report on the centre ' s work and the difficulties encountered , and the outcome of the interinstitutional conference on drugs which took place in brussels late last february .
we believe that the agreement on the participation of norway in the work of the centre , which , we hope , will pave the way for other enlargement initiatives , provides a major opportunity to revitalise the activity of this technical and scientific body , for the emcdda must become an increasingly important reference point in the development of a european policy to fight the illegal sale and distribution of drugs which are harmful to the health of the citizens of our countries .
the drugs policy will only be effective if the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is accorded a fundamental role .
the independent assessment of the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction , the conclusions of which were published in march 2000 , is very specific regarding the serious mismanagement of the board of directors and of the reitox network , which gathers information on drugs and drug addiction .
i therefore join the rapporteur in arguing in favour of the idea of a real reform of the centre for drugs and drug addiction , in respect both of the way it functions and of expanding its activities .
i also believe that if we fail to take this opportunity to amend the regulation with a view to relaunching the centre ' s work , we run the risk of creating further problems when it comes to incorporating the applicant countries in this work .
mr president , we are examining two proposals for partial revision of the working procedures and methods of the lisbon drugs monitoring centre , in particular two proposals on relations with the candidate countries and norway .
this is therefore our chance - for the contents of these proposals are not in themselves revolutionary for the centre - to discuss the role and usefulness of the centre in terms of its function , which should also be our function , of providing political indications and assessments and adopting decisions and initiatives on drugs , although the european union ' s powers in this area are severely limited .
the commission must present a proposal for reforming the procedures which are described as bureaucratic and tedious and , above all , failing to focus on the scientific function of the centre .
unfortunately , his amendments overshoot the mark by a long way in some respects .
i am unhappy about adding turkey to the list of candidate countries that are eligible for support from the emcdda .
according to the report , it would then become a data bank without a critical dimension .
mr president , as one of the longest-serving members in the house my memory goes back right to the first committee of inquiry into drugs in the community on which i had the honour to serve .
we all too often have a tendency in parliament , i am afraid , when we cannot to do anything more concrete , to set up another institution .
that makes us feel good but does not actually change anything .
so it is appropriate that we look at the work of this observatory in lisbon at this stage .
i take this opportunity to say to my dear colleagues from all parties in the netherlands : your policies have tended to become like a honeypot for the criminal element in many of the accession countries .
the observatory in lisbon cannot work effectively without very close relationships with the europol agency in the hague .
there is an element of hypocrisy here , because half the house voted against having stronger measures on tobacco advertising and - i choose my words carefully - there are many members in this house who are regular users , to different degrees , of alcohol , which is a very powerful drug .
for the work of the monitoring centre in lisbon to be effective , member states have to cooperate fully .
so we cannot exclude one country because we do not like it very much : we have to open our doors to as many countries as we can and encourage the work that is being done .
on the other hand , however , both the rapporteur and the members have stressed that this occasion calls for reflection upon the way in which the centre operates and upon the results it has produced in recent years , and i feel that we cannot say we are satisfied with its performance up until now .
the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction , established 7 years ago , is an important tool for collating comparable data from the member states .
at least two main criteria must be met if we are to achieve this objective : first , we need reliable assessments of the measures taken and , if they are efficient , we need to implement them , not only in the member states , but also in the candidate countries , the rest of central and eastern europe and in any third country with the right legal framework under relevant agreements .
it is important that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction , in the context of the positive climate that exists in parliament with regard to drugs , also acquires sufficient resources for its anti-drugs activities outside the european union .
there are two comments i would like to make .
mr president , the fight against drugs is one of the most important tasks we have as citizens and politicians .
i say that notwithstanding the fact that some of your amendments go further than our proposals , particularly when it comes to the improvements proposed for the functioning of the monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction .
the commission agrees with parliament that the functioning of the emcdda must be improved .
the agreement is also of significance to the european union , because , as everyone knows , the drugs problem knows no borders .
five out of the 22 amendments in the sousa pinto report relate directly to this issue .
if that happens , we would have to abandon a phare project costing eur two million , intended to help the candidate countries in eastern europe to set up or reinforce national centres with the aid of technical assistance from the emcdda .
it would not be possible to carry these funds over after 31 december 2000 .
lastly , these amendments introduce the idea of compiling a report on the functioning of the emcdda every three years .
in accordance with rule 69 , the rapporteur can ask , if parliament so decides , to postpone the vote and the matter will be deemed to be referred back to the committee responsible for reconsideration .
i would point out to you that article 69 stipulates that this procedure takes place without debate .
these are two aspects of a fascinating world , which clearly requires protection , but also requires flexibility .
the directive states that the member states must be able to strike a balance between the community right and copyright .
i would point out that copyrights last for as long as 70 years in a number of states .
thus , if we were to add the 25 years to the 70 years , we would end up preventing the modification of a common product which often - and also , so to speak , by its very nature and taking into account novelty and creativity - cannot last very long , not beyond the lifetime of a human being , for example , and therefore a ceiling of 25 years would seem reasonable .
as regards the regulation , the first point i should like to make is that it derives from the 1993 directive .
it is high time this regulation came into being : we cannot delay it any longer .
generally speaking , these amendments considerably enhance the text and i believe the commission will adopt them without any problem .
the fact that this agreement - which is far from perfect , but which provided a way out of the impasse in such a contentious issue - was reached , made the task of creating this regulation and this report on the commission ' s proposal far easier .
the rapporteur ' s first report did advocate certain proposals which , though he believed them to be correct , in the opinion -and i believe in the better informed opinion - of many groups in parliament , contradicted the freeze compromise relating to the repair clause .
i am delighted to be able to inform you that the commission supports the recommendations in the following amendments : 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 13 , 14 , 16 , 18 and 20 .
however , some of the amendments , and particularly amendments nos 10 , 11 , 21 , 22 and 23 are not entirely consistent with what was agreed within the context of the 1998 directive on design and so , unfortunately , the commission is unable to accept them .
furthermore , i would like briefly to take up the matter of design protection in the use of component parts of complex products for repair purposes , which is the subject of proposed amendments nos 6 and 12 .
in addition , i would like to make reference to amendments nos 15 and 19 , about counterfeiting .
on a final note , i would like to thank the members of this house for their support and cooperation in respect of this important regulation .
the debate is closed .
the language regime of the trade mark office was explicitly chosen in the old 1993 proposal for a regulation .
i therefore suggest that the court of justice reconsider the way this procedure works .
the fact that 1101 letters of formal notice , 675 reasoned opinions and 123 referrals have been presented to the court of justice clearly highlight the difficulties inherent in applying european community law .
there are considerable delays - often one , two or even three years - between the committee on petitions ' or the european commission ' s final decision on a matter following the initial complaint .
among other things , the amendments call for a certain degree of harmonisation in european administrative law so that all citizens of the union receive equal treatment .
it is our duty to take on board the fact that there is still a great deal to do in the internal market in terms of standardisation , but also and above all , we must realise that there are a great many gaps in the development of the european legal system .
petitions to the commission and the european parliament in this context should give us not only food for thought , but also cause for concern .
the present grotius and falcone programmes have become out-dated as a result of developments .
this committee forms the interface between the european citizen , the european parliament and the commission .
i have on more than one occasion in this house referred , as others have done , to the shocking case of the foreign language lecturers in italy who first received a judgment in their favour eleven years ago .
if we do not satisfy these we let ourselves down in the face of our own aspirations .
mr president , fellow members , this community law which we are helping to establish presents serious difficulties as far as application in member states is concerned .
the way in which this report has been adopted is appalling .
i would stress that , as guardian of the treaties , the commission has been closely monitoring the situation since 1 february 2000 and , to this day , it has not found any grounds for criticism , which makes it clear that neither the community based on law nor that based on values is being violated in austria .
the overall message put forward is that community law must be applied properly ; our community is a legal community ; there will either be a european rule of law or not ; and monitoring compliance with community law must be considered a priority .
we need to improve the way in which the infringement procedure operates , but do so in a way that does not prevent citizens in the slightest from fully exercising their right to directly contact the commission which , at the end of the day , is what brings them closer to it .
i agree with her : there is nothing more important that we could devote time to discussing in this parliament .
so instead of reducing working time in this house we should devote a little more time to underlining the failures of the european union to implement its decisions .
there are some areas that people , particularly in business , are well-familiar with , such as the single market .
someone pointed out the fact that we need 100 million migrant workers in this union over the next 25 years if we are to maintain economic growth and meet our social obligations .
mr president , the report on monitoring the application of community law that has today been put before you , is the sixteenth report of its kind .
in this way , the demand made by parliament in its resolution of 9 february 1983 , has been fulfilled .
the commission constantly endeavours to improve the speed and efficiency , not to mention the transparency , of its working methods in this sphere .
in this respect , the commission ' s recent initiatives in the sphere of information for the citizen , such as ' europe direct ' also guarantee enhanced transparency .
it is quite clear from the sixteenth report that these complaints are indispensable to the services of the commission in their investigations into breaches of community law .
the commission is endeavouring to nip breaches of community law in the bud and is therefore constantly updating its procedures pertaining to the monitoring of the application of community law .
by amending article 234 of the aforementioned treaty , the intention is to achieve the following .
the commission is also aiming for more effective implementation of community law in the member states by making the monitoring of the transposition measures pertaining to the community directives more systematic .
as far as the possibility of taking account of the application of the second and third pillars in the report is concerned , i would reiterate that we have no instrument at our disposal , within the framework of these pillars , that bears comparison with the infringement procedures laid down in article 226 of the ec treaty .
proof that these conclusions were unanimously adopted lies in the fact that they were signed by the chairman of the committee on petitions , another member of the committee on petitions from the european people ' s party , two members of the socialist group and i myself as draftsman of the opinion .
i am of the view that it is imperative for any report on the application of community law to incorporate the committee on petitions ' conclusions , as this committee plays such a key role in ensuring member states apply community law .
the fact is that the basic points made by the committee on petitions have already been included in the text of the report i drew up .
the debate is closed .
we shall now proceed to the vote . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) explanations of vote mr president , my group abstained from voting on the grossetete report because in the middle of the perfectly acceptable general considerations on the application of community law , the resolution put to the vote included a paragraph which we are unable to accept .
this article stipulates that the court of justice may , as it sees fit , impose penalties or fines , sometimes very stiff ones , on a member state that , for whatever reason , fails to apply community law .
pierre pflimlin was a true statesman .
pierre pflimlin belonged to that historic generation of europeans who , since the end of the war , as a member of parliament , a minister and a political activist , was at the forefront of all the efforts to build a strong and reunited europe .
he was elected first vice-president in 1982 and was president from 1984 to 1987 .
for pierre pflimlin was also a man of dialogue .
pierre pflimlin left the european parliament in 1989 , but for many europeans , especially young people , he remained an authoritative voice , someone who could generate enthusiasm for the political objective of building europe .
it was under pierre pflimlin ' s presidency , in 1986 , that the european flag and anthem were adopted as symbols of the european union .
i shall therefore ask you to please agree to rise while we play the european anthem in memory of president pflimlin . ( the house rose and the european anthem was played ) statement by the president several days ago , ladies and gentlemen , 58 illegal immigrants tragically died in a lorry at the british border .
this was on 18 june .
every one of us was , i am sure , outraged at this tragedy , and i am sure that we are all agreed that the european union should step up its fight against this sort of modern-day slavery .
the treaty of amsterdam has been in force for one year and the european council at tampere was held six months ago .
i would like to give you this opportunity to let us know what you understood the protocol of that meeting to be , and perhaps also to clarify what you said to the press afterwards .
i can , however , tell you that the euro was the focus of all my discussions with the authorities i met , and that they all showed great interest in this question .
thank you , mr tajani .
in connection with these events , i would like to give you advance notice of our proposal , which we will expand in detail later on , to include a point referring to the said incidents in the topical and urgent questions on hooliganism .
i therefore call upon the members to support this point when we vote on the topical and urgent subjects , for this will allow parliament to express an opinion as it has a duty to do .
i was in rotterdam myself , in the spirit of complete impartiality necessitated by my position as president of the european parliament , and i can confirm that the atmosphere was indeed as you describe .
thank you , mr blak .
agenda the next item is the examination of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the conference of presidents pursuant to rule 110 of the rules of procedure .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , three months ago there was a coup in fiji .
in my view this contravenes rule 50 and annex iii of our rules of procedure .
i have had representations to the effect that people are looking to the european union for some kind of effective action , possibly - and this could be debated in the context of the resolution - some kind of sanctions under the lome convention .
i do not want to debate the content now but i do want to ask that this be maintained on the agenda , because after what has happened over the weekend , there is still a risk of considerable discrimination against one ethnic group in fiji .
i now come to another request from the group of the party of european socialists , this time to remove the following item , " tibet " .
in 1992 i personally produced a report on tibet .
on 15 april here in this house we unanimously adopted a resolution on tibet , and now we are repeating what we said on 15 april , perhaps with one or two minor additions .
madam president , tibet is an issue which is on our agenda year after year after year , and to that extent i understand the point that the honourable member has made .
it is an urgent issue because in recent months we have seen various measures being taken by the chinese government to move people into the area of tibet and to exploit the natural resources there .
it is urgent that we put pressure on them to withdraw support for these measures so that this parliament can stand up for the people of tibet , stand up for democracy , stand up for the stopping of what is an illegal act in international law . ( parliament rejected the request ) president .
still on the subject of topical and urgent debate , regarding the " human rights " section , i have received three requests to replace the sub-item on " hooliganism " : a request from the group of the greens / european free alliance to replace this item with a new sub-item entitled " outbreaks of racism in germany and the killing of alberto adriano " , a request from the group of the party of european socialists to replace this sub-item by one entitled " incidents at the rotterdam football stadium " , and a request from the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party to replace this sub-item by one entitled " desecration of prague ' s oldest jewish cemetery " .
that is the background to this motion ; the idea is that we state clearly that europe has a vocation to be a multicultural europe and that europe supports all democratic forces battling against racism and neo-nazism .
it is with this in mind that i ask you to support our request . ( parliament rejected the request from the group of the greens / european free alliance ) president .
madame napoletano , i do not think that i need to put this proposal to the vote .
our group feels that it must be made clear to candidate countries such as the czech republic that the european union insists on respect being shown for fundamental rights such as freedom of worship and philosophy of life .
the member state which has responsibility for that question is the united kingdom .
but it is very important in this matter to draw a distinction between britain - as the state which has overall responsibility - and one of its parts , namely england .
i have received a request from the group of the party of european socialists to remove the sub-item on iraq .
this also applies here , to iraq .
i think that this would be wrong and irresponsible of parliament , and that is why we are asking for this item to be withdrawn . ( parliament rejected the request ) president .
we now have a request to replace the item on venezuela with a new item entitled " colombia and the international conference of donor countries in madrid " .
madam president , there is to be an international conference on 7 july on the " colombia plan " which is to bring donor countries together , in the context of the aid plan for that country , also known as the " marshall plan " .
in any event , we think it important that the european parliament should express its opinion on the subject in the few days before this conference .
madam president , i do not wish to speak against the proposal because i am in complete agreement with what my friend and fellow member , paul lannoye , has just said .
i do , however , deplore the fact that this proposal is set to replace a resolution on venezuela which is the follow up to a visit to that country by an official delegation from the european parliament following the serious floods which devastated that country , especially as we have not had an opportunity to discuss the matter since then .
obviously , the czech republic still has more time to implement the acquis communautaire in full , but people might well have doubts about whether the czech republic is willing even now to start taking on board these aspects of european policy which are of fundamental importance for its citizens and for environment policy .
i think that the european parliament also ought to speak out on this .
this absurd debate demonstrates that a provan report on urgent procedures would be welcome , because the prime minister of portugal has been waiting an hour for us to finish .
i do not understand how a political group in this house can table two motions to replace a point on the agenda .
mr baron crespo , this is perfectly permissible under the rules of procedure .
that is why we should like to add this item .
the matter is potentially a very serious one , involving perhaps a breach of article 10 of the treaties , and i believe it requires more serious consideration than can be given to a topical and urgent motion on a thursday afternoon .
but a topical and urgent motion would shed more heat than light on the matter , and seems to me to be an inappropriate vehicle .
therefore i would appeal to members to vote against this request . ( parliament gave its assent ) the other two requests therefore lapse , and there are no further requests for amendments to the agenda . ( the order of business was adopted thus amended ) european council / portuguese presidency the next item is the joint debate on the european council report and the commission statement on the european council meeting at feira and the statement by the president-in-office of the council regarding the portuguese presidency .
now that these six months are over , i think that we can say quite simply that we have fulfilled our duty .
the second part of our strategy was to strengthen political union in europe , on the basis of our universal values and by cementing europe ' s role as the leading architect of a new design for international relations , one that is more multipolar , more balanced and more equitable .
i think that i can say that these objectives have been fully achieved .
these four elements of the strategy have already produced tangible results .
this coordination is also being supported by a strong desire for political leadership at the highest level with regard to economic and social reforms .
no political federal power can forego a strong federal budget and strong federal competences . ( applause ) therefore , a vague , abstract discussion at institutional level , which does not fully weigh up the financial and tax-related consequences of this federal model , is , in our opinion , a meaningless discussion .
the work on enlargement has moved at a great pace over these six months .
even where the countries of the helsinki group are concerned , a significant number of dossiers have already been opened and many others have been closed .
at this point , i must stress the extremely important and dynamic role played by the commission in speeding up the pace of these negotiations .
we also know , however , that we , the european union , have not been balkanised and we are now acting in an integrated way .
i would also like to thank parliament for its efforts in solving the problem of financial support for montenegro , which we felt was essential , in order to send a very clear message to all those who are trying to establish democracy in that area .
i am sure that we all agreed with everything you said about his role as one of the architects of europe and of democratic accountability in europe .
before saying a few words myself about the recent european council in feira which i attended with president prodi , who is not with us this afternoon because he is attending a meeting in paris with the new presidency , i would like , on behalf of all my colleagues in the commission , to pay tribute to the hard work , skill and energy that the portuguese government has devoted over the last six months to the presidency of the council .
this ensured the success not only of the lisbon and feira summits , but of the day-to-day work behind the scenes that is vital in carrying europe towards its ambitious goals .
i would just like to add that it was a great pleasure working with the team of portuguese ministers , as well as an extremely rewarding experience .
the european council on 19 and 20 june was a very valuable meeting of important consolidation .
the council gave , as the prime minister said , renewed encouragement to the work that has already been begun , particularly on the e-europe action plan , research and enterprise policy and the extremely important subject of social inclusion .
fourth , the council welcomed the broad economic guidelines for 2000 and recommended their adoption by the council .
during the feira meeting we were shocked , as you said madam president , by the news of the tragic death of 58 illegal immigrants hidden in a truck in dover .
the tragedy at dover underlines europe 's urgent need for a common immigration and asylum policy ; a point that i notice much of the media -including in the country i know best - has been making .
the commission will be putting forward proposals on these matters before the end of the year .
trafficking in human beings is a serious international crime that no one government can tackle single-handedly .
our citizens expect no less than that , and we must live up to their expectations .
the commission has been working energetically in this area .
this complex agreement involves the directive on the taxation of savings .
the directive should be adopted by unanimity no later than 31 december 2002 .
we took stock of the european union 's relations with russia and the situation there , including in chechnya , in the light of the recent eu-russia summit , which i think was regarded as fairly successful .
on chechnya , there have , it is true , been some recent moderately positive developments in response to international and european union pressure : for example the recent echo mission was able to take place and western humanitarian agencies have greater access to the area .
the mediterranean strategy is global , covering all countries in the region and including the consolidation of peace in the middle east .
at feira , javier solana and i presented a follow-up report outlining what had been achieved in the western balkans since lisbon .
i was in kosovo again last week for what was my fourth visit and i also visited the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on friday .
i just want to add a couple of points .
i hope that we can also expect strong support for the proposals that we have put forward for asymmetric autonomous trade measures for the region .
before i conclude , i would like to say something briefly about the eu-india summit .
we have sometimes , in the union , underestimated the importance of india and underestimated the importance of developing our economic and political relationship with it .
it is a democracy which shares many of our values and had a tradition of political tolerance when we still believed in the divine right of kings .
to conclude , the feira council crowned an extremely successful portuguese presidency .
the prime minister mentioned some of the constitutional discussions that we have started to have in the european union .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , vice-president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , first of all , i would like to echo our president ' s tribute to president pfimlin , who , as well as being a predecessor of mine and a great friend , was the person who welcomed the spanish and portuguese meps when we arrived in this house , precisely because we had built a community of values in our countries of the type we are now trying to strengthen .
i believe that this is an essential point because the prime minister of portugal , over recent months , has indicated that he is firmly committed to defending these common values .
i would like to return this compliment because , during my years of experience in this house , i had never known a prime minister to appear three times during a presidency , but he has done just that .
in relation to the lisbon summit i would like to highlight the importance which my group attaches to the triangle of employment , social cohesion and competitiveness , which is absolutely essential to us , and which is already part , not only of the portuguese presidency ' s plans , but also of our policies , and which has been strengthened in feira .
if we are to progress in a serious and socially just way , it is very important that we take the step of dealing with all these incomes jointly , and , furthermore , i believe that this is a good first step in relation to the process of globalisation .
i would like to point out firstly that , in relation to the charter of fundamental rights , although it has still not been included , an important step has been made in that direction .
i agree with the challenge set by president guterres when he said that we have to talk about federalism in all areas .
madam president , i would like to make a final observation in relation to an important decision taken by the portuguese presidency bilaterally with thirteen governments .
i must say that the european parliament and the commission have been on the same wavelength since february and the portuguese presidency cannot be criticised for defending our community of values in the face of a decision of a political party to form a government with another party whose ideology and beliefs are absolutely contrary to our common values .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of the liberal group , i would like to join in the moving tributes to president pflimlin , and am only too pleased to extend warm congratulations to portugal on its presidency .
as far as external relations are concerned , the liberal group welcomes the idea of a summit between the european union and the most democratically advanced countries in the western balkans .
as far as the results of the feira summit are concerned , however , we are rather more sceptical .
the real initiatives - highlighted by parliament in all of its resolutions for years - are in some cases not even being discussed in the preparations for the intergovernmental conference .
it is therefore not surprising that this virtual agreement should have been particularly warmly welcomed by those who have never been keen on a greater balance between legislation on capital and labour and who have always opposed mounting any joint action against these tax havens for tax evasion , fraud or the movement of large sums of money .
the presidency can and must be divided between member states , since this is symbolic of the fact that we share a common path .
in the european parliament alone , 406 members supported this disastrous move .
the portuguese presidency attempted to bring some basic realism back to certain fundamental issues .
it served only to create distrust in an atmosphere that is already very sensitive .
any idea of a pioneer group does not correspond to the idea of european cooperation that unites us .
i believe that parliament too must take considerable responsibility for having undermined this body that is central to european construction , but i think that the council is continuing to exacerbate the sideways shift and that we must , as a matter of urgency , change course and put the commission back at the centre of the community ' s construction .
i believe that in the course of this intergovernmental conference we cannot avoid starting to plan and set ourselves an agenda for the reform of the european union providing for gradual communitisation of the common foreign and security policy .
the precedence of eu law may be dated back to the judgements given in 1962 and 1964 .
the right of veto in accordance with the luxembourg compromise prevailed from 1966 to 1986 .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the council presidency has given itself a bit of a pat on the back by declaring that the portuguese presidency has done what it set out to do , no more and no less than that .
above all , there is the respect with which the portuguese presidency always treated this parliament , which will certainly have contributed to future presidencies adopting a new stance in their relations with parliament .
first and foremost , i would cite the postponement of the decision on the charter of fundamental rights .
the decision making in the field of the cesdp also demonstrates the lack of unanimity amongst the member states .
the ambiguity of europe ' s intentions is even more apparent in annex 2 to the presidency ' s conclusions on relations between the european union and nato .
in short , after all these years , europe still does not know what it wants .
the portuguese presidency has shown yet again that it is high time the tasks and competences of europe and the national member states were given clear definition .
mr president , i am similarly dismayed at the way in which austria continues to be prejudged by 14 member states and in my view , despite the many words of praise about the portuguese presidency , the absurdity of the sanctions against austria , which member states agreed together but are applying bilaterally , will , as a german newspaper once wrote , go down as a peculiar irony in the history of the eu and therefore unfortunately also in the history of the portuguese presidency .
the work of the presidency will surely only be credible if the values which are to be defended are binding on all the member states of the eu and are not employed arbitrarily and on demand as political propaganda by individual politicians against a democratically-elected government of an eu member state .
mr president , firstly i would like to add my voice to those who earlier paid their respects to the memory of president pflimlin .
the berlin speeches by foreign minister fischer , visionary and controversial , by president chirac , controversial but not visionary , and by prime minister blair , neither visionary nor controversial , which threaten to overshadow the memory of the portuguese presidency , leave certain questions in the mind which the portuguese presidency can still help us with .
secondly , on enlargement , could he confirm that there is still the political will in the council so that candidate countries , this house and the public of europe can expect to hear target dates announced for the first wave of accession ?
however , i have one question : have we indeed made clear to the candidate countries that the debate on closer cooperation mainly applies to them at the moment and that we are in a hurry to complete the arrangements before new partners join the european union ?
the future of europe depends on two major issues : democracy and employment .
it means independence for europe from the united states and therefore greater autonomy for nato .
the portuguese presidency referred to federalism and to future issues in general , but without , for example , raising the matter of own resources and without a spectacular increase in own resources , enlargement will become practically impossible and politically painful .
mr president , the feira council neither surprised nor disappointed us .
there must therefore be some mistake here , either in the simultaneous interpreting or in the register of votes .
we will clarify this matter , mr ribeiro e castro .
mr president , it is not possible in a mere 240 seconds to give a full report of the positive work which president guterres and all his team have done on behalf of the european union .
it is not that we socialists wish to see a policy of economic coordination against the central bank , but we do wish to see constructive dialogue between the decision makers in monetary policy and the decision makers in national economic policy , with each party , obviously , having to retain its own autonomy of action and decision making .
a few simple rules must be set within the economic and financial affairs council , but more especially within the euro-11 , requiring every finance minister to justify to his fellows the broad outlines of his draft budget or tax reform or any other national action likely to affect the european union as a whole .
the development of the internal market also necessitates new regulations in order to guarantee workers ' rights in the event of business mergers or buyouts , in order to avoid relocations for reasons of fiscal or social dumping and in order to guarantee basic public services for all sectors of the population , especially the most vulnerable .
the socialists expect the upcoming french presidency to ensure that the draft social agenda makes rapid progress and is substantial in content .
the phenomenal development of the internet within our societies must not blind us to the fact that there is a digital divide and that the gap between info-rich and info-poor is increasing in developed countries and , more especially , in the third world .
mr president , i would have so many more things to say but , unfortunately , my speaking time is running out : 240 seconds is really not very much at all .
mr president , mr president-in-office , mr commissioner , i really wish with all my heart - given my political views - that the portuguese had had an easier presidency , a presidency without the strains caused by the bilateral sanctions imposed on the federal austrian government and therefore on my country .
the longer this policy remains on the boil the more indigestible it is , not only for my country but also for the whole european union .
it was not least for this reason - since these measures are of course devoid of any legal base - that parliament 's president , nicole fontaine , pointed out at the beginning of the feira summit that the european parliament had adopted a resolution on 15 june calling on the council to analyse relations between austria and the other 14 member states , and to draw up with all the parties concerned a procedure which would enable a solution to be found which would be acceptable to everyone .
sustainable stability must be proved by all countries which want to join the euro zone , but also by those which are already in it .
in this way , funds will also be released for social policy and social security will not have to find the money to cover a lack of income owing to fraud .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the portuguese presidency was a pro-active presidency .
the agreements on the common foreign and security policy bear witness to parliament ' s total exclusion .
we are slipping into a more intergovernmental and less federal europe and this must be checked as a matter of urgency .
firstly , the danger of a shift towards an intergovernmental approach .
before the feira summit , we also held a forum attended by representatives of parliament , the commission and the council , member states , and also the european central bank , the european investment bank , the economic and social council , the committee of the regions and our social partners .
i therefore fully agree with all those who feel that the union ' s true nature must be preserved as a union and strengthened as such , and that a shift towards an intergovernmental approach is highly undesirable .
secondly , the intergovernmental conference .
it was not the portuguese presidency ' s responsibility to conclude the work of the intergovernmental conference .
the next question would be : will it be possible to conclude the igc ?
with regard to the charter of fundamental rights , i feel particularly comfortable with this issue , because the portuguese government has always recommended that a charter of fundamental rights should be included in the treaty .
my desire , the desire of the portuguese government , is that this charter should become a fundamental instrument of the union .
this shows that we were working at top speed , in excellent cooperation with the commission - and i must here emphasise the role of commissioner verheugen - in order to move forward as quickly as possible with the work on enlargement .
the lisbon summit laid down a strategy .
we have talked about the information society and the information society action plan has been approved .
this is the key issue and this is the issue on which the commission has now been instructed to work in certain crucial areas , which , we feel , will result in very important decisions for the european union in the near future .
we must do this - and let us be quite clear about this - because xenophobia and racism do exist in our societies , in all our countries .
the honourable member asked me how i saw the relationship between the institutions - between the council , the commission and parliament .
i can answer very directly : in my own area it is a subject about which i have made one or two speeches recently .
we have to apply to the budgetary authority - to parliament and the council - for the level of our commitments in external relations every year , but we should be involved in a much more open dialogue with the budgetary authority about the direction in which those spending commitments should go .
there should be a more serious exchange about our political priorities .
finally , i should like to pay one last compliment in the direction of the portuguese presidency at the end of its term .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i believe that we have here a very good example of cooperation between the european commission and the european parliament .
we are grateful to the commission for this , and i think that this is a good example of the commission responding to initiatives emanating from parliament and acting on them .
on the other hand , i must also make a number of critical comments .
i believe that the commission has overshot the mark somewhat in its proposal .
at this stage i should like to express my grateful thanks for the constructive cooperation which we have enjoyed with the finnish and portuguese presidencies , and i am sure that in our further discussions we will also cooperate fruitfully with the french presidency .
that is why we decided in the committee even before the summer break that we would enter into detailed consultations now in the first reading , complete the normal procedure of first and second readings and then await the council 's common position .
this should not , however , prevent us from continuing to seek to cooperate with the council on this issue because the tampere summit made the fight against money laundering its very top priority , and rightly so .
article 280 of the ec treaty clearly states that , " the community and the member states shall counter fraud and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the community through measures to be taken in accordance with this article , which shall act as a deterrent and be such as to afford effective protection ... " .
however , we do recognise the delimitation problems and , if there is simply a reference to article 280 of the treaty , we are prepared to go along with the rapporteur .
we must bear in mind , as has already been said by the rapporteur , that the proposal we are considering is before us at our request , at the request of parliament , because we wanted to get to grips with money-laundering , with this international crime which represents a substantial threat to the single market .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , if we vote in favour of this directive tomorrow or the day after we will be establishing one of the cornerstones of the fight against organised crime because , as diemut theato mentioned , the driving force behind organised crime is the money from drug trafficking , from trafficking in human beings and from all forms of organised crime .
that is why it is so important that we take up the battle here against money laundering and prevent it from happening .
because if we succeed in stamping out money laundering then we will also stamp out organised crime .
the situation has changed .
that is why it is absolutely essential for the european parliament , for the institutions , the commission and the council , to make decisions here so that we have a new effective instrument with which to combat money laundering .
mr president , in recent years criminal organisations within and outside europe have set up powerful international networks which make huge profits from , for example , trafficking in women or drugs .
the fight against money laundering is a top political priority .
both at the tampere summit and the feira summit , the european council asked the european parliament and the council of ministers to approve this proposal , which provides for the scope of application of the 1991 money laundering directive to be updated and extended , as soon as they possibly could .
almost everyone agrees that the directive of 10 june 1991 on prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering has worked well .
the commission is largely well-disposed towards the underlying idea or the intention behind the lion ' s share of the proposed amendments , but would prefer at this stage not to go for a technical solution .
this applies to amendments nos 4 and 12 .
as far as tax consultants and accountants are concerned , at this stage the commission has not yet taken a definitive stance on whether the same conditions should be applied to these professions as are applied to lawyers , and hence whether a limited number of their transactions should fall within the scope of the directive , or whether the directive should apply more widely to these professions .
but the problem there is that more often than not , this type of dealer is not regulated at all and that it can therefore seem difficult , not to say impossible , to establish whether they have fulfilled their obligations .
the commission will continue its search for a suitable way of bringing these dealers within the directive ' s scope of application .
it will continue to work on this aspect of the proposal .
the commission is prepared to look into the extent to which ucits ( undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ) and collecting societies should fall within the scope of the directive .
the commission is prepared to work with the member states to establish what the role of the market supervisory authorities should be .
amendments nos 31 , 32 , 41 en 43 .
there is nothing in the proposal to stop the member states from going further than the requirements laid down in the directive .
these amendments seem to deny olaf any authority whatsoever within the scope of this directive .
the commission takes the view that these amendments could place too many restrictions on the application of this directive to the legal professions .
the proposal cannot treat customs and tax officials in the same way as it does financial institutions or professions falling within the scope of the directive .
this aspect must be left to the member states .
the commission feels that each member state must decide for itself as to whether there is a role for registers of mortgages in the fight against money laundering .
the obligations contained in the directive cannot be extended to beyond the territory of the european union .
the commission cannot agree to this item being dropped because it would mean a cooperation obligation being imposed on the bar when this obligation can only properly be fulfilled by the normal anti-money laundering authorities .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m .
in order to transfer data to third countries , it must be established whether the countries guarantee an adequate level of protection .
the european commission will ascertain that the third country provides adequate data protection and oblige the member states to adopt standardised procedures .
the case of the united states of america , where there is no general data protection legislation in the private sector , is different .
recently , on 6 june , the european commission sent us the instruments it had drawn up on the basis of the conclusions reached and which it considers constitute adequate protection .
in fact , since there will be neither law nor contract , individuals do not have rights which can be invoked in court .
the safe harbour system can only be considered to afford an adequate level of protection under article 25 of the directive if genuine protection is guaranteed for european citizens whose rights have been violated , that is if there is the possibility of getting the unlawfully processed data erased and of obtaining compensation for damages by means of recourse to a judge or arbitrator or any independent third party who has been assigned the task of guaranteeing that reparation is made for any harm suffered .
in this light , i would argue , and i hope that the majority of parliament will vote likewise by means of the amendments presented by my group and others , for a " yes " , but on the strict condition that we see realism , respect for the law , respect for institutional balance , but above all , mr president , respect for the citizens and their interests .
it is to safeguard our responsibility , as established in the very ambiguous amendment no 6 .
i must point out that the united states have at least 25 years of experience in this type of system , which supports the idea that this can work and that it is going to work .
i hope that tomorrow this house will support this position which , as i have said , is ultimately in the interest of the citizens of europe .
mr president , i should like to compliment the commission on sticking with the negotiations with the usa over the last two years .
but if we express our very strong reservations and to ask for clear review , this will give our citizens protection now and offer us progress in this very difficult area .
in the context of an agreement with the united states , the rapporteur emphasised the extent to which this country lacked any legally binding standard on personal data protection .
it would be a great shame , particularly now that , after years of discussion , the council appears to be willing to set up a proper european body to monitor the use of personal data , if we were to ease off the pressure in terms of our demands on the subject with regard to third countries in general and the united states in particular .
it is a condition sine qua non for any real protection of citizens ' individual liberties .
if we adopt this report , we will not only be expressing our political will to succeed in concluding an agreement containing protection clauses which respect european legislation , but we will also be encouraging a large proportion of congress and of united states ' public opinion to develop personal data protection laws .
clearly , we cannot know how the united states will react to our concerns .
naturally the commission believes that it has used its authority correctly with regard to its proposal for a decision on the safe harbour , and i hope that parliament sees it the same way .
the decision is unilateral and if the safe harbour system fails to accommodate the requirements stipulated by the united states then we might as well suspend or withdraw our decision unilaterally as well .
paragraph 7 of the draft resolution states that certain changes will have to be made before parliament is prepared to agree that the safe harbour system affords adequate protection .
the officials responsible for data protection in the european union have themselves said , in an opinion that is quoted extensively in your draft resolution , that , in principle , self-regulatory systems afford adequate protection .
participating firms will have to pay compensation in a whole host of circumstances , for example on account of their obligations pursuant to legislation in the united states .
the third change parliament wants to see concerns the right to have data cancelled when it has been obtained or processed illegally .
therefore , the commission does not see any need to retain these changes for us to be able to deem the level of protection afforded by the safe harbours adequate .
the united states has no desire to revisit the discussions again and the commission also takes the view that the talks are over .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m .
parliament has always been of the opinion that these states should be exempt from visa requirements .
obviously these countries have in the meantime also managed to convince the commission .
these member states should , it is argued , have the possibility of demanding visas from citizens from these same third countries .
we need standard rules on visas , and i think that the commission has tabled a good proposal .
mr president , i should first of all like to pay tribute to the rapporteur , who has put forward a very concise and well-presented report and one that we are happy to support .
i would like to draw attention to one or two points from it .
that is important because young people are enthusiastic about the european ideal and we do not want to put anything in their way that makes them think that europe is not welcoming and not moving in the right direction .
my last point concerns romania and bulgaria , particularly romania , a country i know well .
mr president , the introduction of a european visa policy is the occasion to debate an important issue , and here in this house we are today discussing the latest developments in this visa policy .
that architecture rests on two cornerstones , namely the creation of an area of freedom , security and justice in accordance with the new title iv inserted in the european community treaty , and the integration of the schengen acquis into the union framework , to which is added the dimension of variable geometry resulting from the different protocols annexed by several member states to the amsterdam treaty .
to clarify our position : amendments nos 3 and 4 can be accepted , as the changes they make to the wording avoid any contradiction with other provisions of the regulation .
amendments nos 7 and 8 are prompted by a wish to clarify the demarcation line between the scope of the regulation and other matters , some of which are governed by the schengen acquis , integrated into the community .
finally , the commission is also unable to accept amendment no 6 .
despite all the sympathy that can be felt towards the possibility of exempting young people taking part in european union youth programmes from visa requirements , the commission must stick to its aim of maximum harmonisation and avoid cases creating derogations from , or exceptions to , the visa requirement .
the commission is convinced that efforts to ensure that the need to obtain a visa does not constitute an obstacle to young people wishing to take part in european union programmes will have to be made in the rules on the conditions for the issue of visas which will be dealt with by a different instrument and which are not covered by this regulation .
parliament 's swiftness is appreciated by the commission , and it will help it , in the field of visas , to meet the deadlines set in the action plan adopted in vienna and reproduced in the scoreboard drawn up following the european council in tampere .
the debate is closed .
i can inform you that 25 scandinavian meps and interpreters took between 10 and 20 hours to arrive here in strasbourg .
what is more , i also had problems obtaining a seat at all on a flight to strasbourg .
it is quite unacceptable for meps to have to spend time which should be devoted to political work or to their electorate at home on wondering how they will manage to get to their place of work and also on working out where they are going to spend the night .
i hope your points are not just to do with problems of air travel to strasbourg , as we have a lot of work on this morning .
your comments will be passed on to the leaders of the political groups and we will have an opportunity , in a few moments ' time , to see if the message has been received .
turkey is a candidate country and should show more willing , through turkish cypriots , as regards the commitments which it entered into in helsinki .
mr president , i wish to raise the same issue and to condemn the provocative action by the occupying forces in cyprus .
mr president , i merely wished to inform you in this connection that turkish forces have proceeded 300 metres into the buffer zone alongside the british base in cyprus and that they did so with the blessing of the british .
mr president , i am taking the floor regarding the issue of cyprus and the situation there because i do not think that it should only be our greek colleagues who alert us to the problem which has now existed since 1974 .
it is unacceptable that a country seeking membership of the european union and with which negotiations to accord it pre-accession status have now been going on for 27 years can occupy an area covering 40 % of cyprus .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , on 6 july , this house will decide whether to grant discharge to the commission in respect of the general budget for the 1998 financial year .
these conditions corresponded in large measure to the demands contained in the report by the court of auditors , such as the commitment to ultimately arrive at a positive statement of assurance .
the court of auditors declined , for the fifth time in succession , to provide an assurance that the commission ' s handling of the finances for the 1998 financial year had been careful and economical .
the commission was criticised for being slow to produce documents and information , and likewise , there was criticism of the lack of transparency and independence as regards disciplinary procedures .
since the commission had at least fulfilled some of the conditions within the period stipulated , and the appointment of a new secretary-general of the commission had signalled a fresh start on the personnel front , i moved in my follow-up report that discharge be granted , or at least i recommended that the commission recover the funds from the flechard and echo cases , which are estimated to total approximately 17 million ecus , for the eu ' s coffers .
on 27 june 2000 , a majority of the committee on budgetary control rejected the call for the money to be recovered .
the commissioner for the budget informed us on 15 june that up until 1996 , a further three contracts were concluded with flechard .
we have always recognised that the current commission can only be held responsible to an extent for the mistakes of the past .
after all , the current commission only took up office in the summer of 1999 and we are examining the 1998 financial year .
i am now in a position to assess this action plan and have to say that after april of this year , this plan and cooperation with the commission stepped up the pace of the reforms already introduced within the commission .
indeed commissioners have since publicly acknowledged that there were major problems in this area .
for example , on 15 may of this year , commissioner nielson told the financial times that the commission machine was never constructed to deliver development assistance .
i would stress again that i believe our action plan is heading in the right direction in this very respect and that it will enable us - parliament and the commission that is - to jointly take more responsibility for this area and to ensure that there is better management .
accordingly , i would like to reinforce the point that in future , we in the committee on budgetary control expect to receive a six-monthly report from the commission - indeed we have already been promised one - and that this close cooperation will enable us to simplify matters for the 1999 financial year and , i feel it is safe to say , for the 2000 financial year , and we will no longer be forced to use deferral as a means of bringing pressure to bear .
i therefore also believe that in future , the committee on budgetary control is going to have to concentrate much harder on the essential guidelines and not get so bogged down in the detail .
an electronic inventory system is in its early stages and we intend to enquire how this inventory system is working in practice in the course of future discharge procedures .
here too we have yet to see how this new procedure will work out in practice .
i am therefore in favour , as i was in april , of granting discharge .
a broad majority of the committee on budgetary control has signed up to this .
in recital 33 of the april motion on parliament ' s grant of discharge , the discharge was linked with the court of auditor ' s report on the finances of the groups , although everyone knows that only the groups themselves are responsible for their financial affairs .
although one can understand the attitude of the court of auditors , which only cooperates with parliament as an institution and has therefore failed to cite the names of individual groups associated with specific shortcomings , i still feel that we should discuss this with the court of auditors so as to agree a different arrangement for the future .
on 13 april , parliament decided by a majority to postpone the discharge and ask the commission to supply further reports and information .
naturally the commission abided by parliament ' s wishes and on 11 may it submitted the following documents , among others : the financial controller ' s report on the corrections made to ex-ante controls , a report on the conclusions drawn from the investigative committee into customs procedures , a report and overview in connection with the contracts of scientific visitors , a report on the number of disciplinary proceedings associated with financial irregularities undertaken since 1998 and the outcome thereof .
the commission , and particularly myself as commissioner for the budget , are completely in agreement with the court of auditors and parliament on this .
firstly we need error prevention measures , such as - to quote but one example - a measure to reduce the number of invitation to tender and award procedures for external aid - be it the phare , meda or other programmes - from the 80 different procedures we have had up until now ( would you believe ? ) to 40 .
i would remind you again that my colleague mr kinnock is to submit a draft on the reform of disciplinary proceedings before the summer recess .
this concerns the future and the past .
the commission set out to ensure that the report and the response from the commission , which also details the sequence of events , would not be kept secret or confidential but would be officially available , and indeed they can now be called up on the internet .
the commission must uphold the principles and rules of legality in the current fight against fraud and in the efforts being made to shed light on cases from previous years .
i would remind you that the principles to do with passing on information also feature in the agreement between parliament and the commission on the transfer of information .
this agreement should provide a clear basis for this important aspect of relations between parliament and the commission , and consequently , it should also form a sound basis for the procedures pertaining to the discharge process .
i would like to thank the members of the committee on budgetary control , who have contributed enormously , not only to the report , but also to the results , the assessments , the observations , and , above all , to the many proposals for improvement and the challenges we have faced .
he announced that collaboration with parliament would be a fresh collaboration .
on the other hand , it is also obvious that we are continuing to demand that the present commissioners show the utmost transparency with regard to parliament .
finally , i should also like to say that , in the context of this commission , we feel that parliament will have to take firm control of olaf because this is in fact one of the key means that we are going to be able to develop for the future .
whatever the case , mr president , i think that the salient conclusion that should be drawn from our work - and this view is shared by a good number of fellow members of all political complexions - is that henceforth , firstly , we shall do our utmost to monitor what is going on and , secondly , we shall insist , as a basic requirement , that the commission should be open with us .
mr president , i should like to make one observation on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation and one on behalf of the socialist group as a whole .
we in europe want to play a key role in establishing this with the necessary resources .
but this means that we need to actually make this change within the next couple of months .
and this is , at the end of the day , what the european citizen judges you as commission and us as parliament on .
i wish the commission every success in advance .
rather than stick with the hysterical , drum-beating report that the rapporteur produced , which , if truth be told , had little originality , no sense of direction and no suggestion on how to move ahead constructively , the committee decided back in march to postpone the discharge and to set out seventeen clear conditions which we expected the commission to sign up to in the space of a couple of months .
for example , the promise to cut the number of errors is a major promise but it will not happen unless we have the commitment and the resources to go with it .
will you make a commitment though to cooperate fully with our internal inquiry committee and give us the information we request ?
i think mr pomes ruiz is perhaps just a few seconds late .
my political group , like all of them , is going to comply with the regulations and provide information when it is appropriate to do so .
however , when free to do so , each group has managed its finances in the way they considered appropriate .
logically , at the beginning it needs more time , but we hope that other decisions will be taken much more quickly .
we also hope that the interinstitutional agreement which we have finally reached will improve our relations , so that we can provide each other with mutual support and build europe more quickly .
to end , i would like to say that we agree with the discharge of the accounts which the three reports refer to .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in my opinion , the 1998 discharge was a fascinating exercise in terms of both the budget of parliament and that of the commission .
against the committee on budgetary control ' s judgement , we rejected the european parliament ' s discharge , and we formulated five requests for the secretary-general of this parliament .
our group agrees with the conclusion that discharge may on this occasion be granted .
it is just as much about designing one ' s administrative and production machinery in such a way that the objectives laid down in the budget can be achieved .
mrs schreyer can always come here sure in the knowledge that parliament ' s committee on budgetary control will not hurt a hair of her head .
where parliament ' s 1998 accounts are concerned , i would note that the problem is the same as in other areas of the union , namely an all too careless attitude to the way in which the money is used .
we have taken the discharge procedure most seriously and i should also like to thank the administration and the secretary-general for their collaboration in this exercise .
i think it was a good approach to clarify matters , look into them more carefully and solve some outstanding problems with a properly argued report enabling parliament to have all the facts in order to grant discharge to the administration and the president of the european parliament .
more than 60 % of the report voted upon consisted of amendments .
mr president , it is extremely rare for a report to be quite so turned around after the vote in committee .
this parliament has no clear majority or minority .
we have to rely to a certain extent on parliamentary fair play .
if a clear majority emerges , then this majority feeling should be expressed in all the aspects of a report , without resorting to playing on words or abusing procedures .
we shall support this report which the rapporteur is clearly against .
rest assured , mr president , that the tdi group will vote in favour of discharge , at least the radical wing of the group which i represent here .
indeed , as a rule we do not know everyone involved in day-to-day legislation and in the administration of the now 800 billion being used .
mr president , the european institutions must be aware that they have a responsibility and also an obligation to guarantee the european citizen an efficient and economical administration .
unfortunately though , the opposite still holds true , as borne out by cases such as flechard and the echo administration .
nor should we be surprised if european citizens continue to lose confidence in these administrative systems .
consequently , we independents have no intention whatsoever of granting discharge to the report on the general budget .
mr president , this brings us to the conclusion of a momentous two years for the european union , which began with the 1996 discharge and its refusal .
we need , in this debate , to associate the 1998 discharge with that of the framework agreement which we will be voting on tomorrow .
the council , by its absence today , shows its lack of interest in the way in which we , as a parliament , have used our powers to begin the birth of a political europe .
indeed , one or two of her amendments , like removing paragraphs 47 and 48 of the discharge report today show that some of these amendments look more commission-born than in parliament 's interests .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i would like to repudiate what mr poettering said about mr kuhne .
it is in the nature of budgetary control that there always has to be somebody who feels their toes have been trodden on .
it is hardly surprising that two members of the conference of presidents should have a problem with the control and authority exercised by the committee on budgetary control .
parliament postponed the discharge for the 1998 financial year in april , but with no intention whatsoever of provoking a trial of strength with the commission or even working towards a refusal of discharge .
we agreed , on the basis of my report in january , that they were to be submitted by 30 june .
it is 4 july today .
our granting discharge for 1998 is , in reality , a vote of confidence .
mr president , let me first say a few words regarding the quality of the work of our rapporteur mrs stauner .
let me also say a few words regarding the speeches made by the socialist members .
the job of the committee on budgetary control is not to hang the commission out to dry for the duration of a parliament , but to ensure that europe 's citizens are served by an executive that implements its political priorities efficiently and effectively .
i also want , and feel compelled , to express my admiration of our rapporteur , gabriele stauner .
i would therefore like to thank all our opposite numbers , be they from the commission , the court of auditors or the european parliament .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen of the house , ladies and gentlemen of the commission , the statements made by some of my fellow members have already contributed significantly towards expressing the discontent aroused by the report on discharge .
this is the reason why the text on which we are to vote during this part-session is substantially different from the initial draft .
we cannot fail to note the same petty political excesses that some of us already condemned in the initial report on discharge for the year 1998 .
our objective must be to work in close collaboration with the commission in the interest of our fellow citizens and of the implementation of our policies , and to make the discharge report a proper assessment of the implementation of the european union budget in both quantitative and qualitative terms .
i only joined the committee on budgetary control a couple of months ago , and to me the meetings and the reports of the last two months have raised probably more questions than they have answered .
sometimes we seem to forget that we are dealing with the discharge in respect of 1998 .
i have carefully read the court of auditors ' report on the accounts for that year , particularly in relation to agriculture and the structural funds .
i have come to the conclusion , having had a lot of experience in parliament and with european affairs , that things have been steadily improving and that 1998 was one of the best performances we had .
the difficulties which occurred - a 4 % possible error in the area of agriculture and a little more in the area of structural funds - did not result from the failure of the european commission to dispense those funds in an efficient way , but from a failure - and it was a small failure - to control the member states and the european governments and to ensure that the member states and their administrations had done the job in the way it should have been done .
that is my first point .
i do not think it is reasonable to inform the people of europe that there was a loss of eur 14 million to the european budget arising out of this case .
the worst thing you can say about that settlement is that it was made on a legal basis which was not in effect when the crime was committed , but was in effect while the case was still open .
it seems to me that equating that with a loss of eur 14 million is a gross exaggeration .
statement by presidency-in-office of council - action programme of french presidency the next item is the statement by the presidency-in-office of council on the french presidency ' s action programme .
it is my very great pleasure to give the floor to the french president , mr jacques chirac . ( loud applause ) madam president , ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament , thank you for welcoming me here today .
since 1 july , france has held the presidency of the council of the european union , and i shall be chairing the meetings of the european council on two occasions .
last winter , when i was invited to participate in the inauguration of this new chamber , i made a commitment to involving parliament fully in the work of our presidency .
i think it natural and necessary to conduct discussions and debates within the european union in close collaboration with the men and women that represent the citizens , the men and women elected by the people of europe , who have the task of representing their opinions in the debate on the future of europe .
the citizens of europe want more transparency in the operation of the european institutions .
nowadays , discussions within the european union must take place in the light of day and , of course , here in the european parliament .
having come into office in quite exceptional circumstances , they have managed to lay the foundations for a radical reform which will bear fruit in the future .
he devoted his life to france , of course , and europe , a bold and noble idea of europe .
this house acknowledged his commitment by electing him its president .
the fine and necessary project of enlargement is going to change the european union , its modus operandi and , perhaps , even its very nature , at a time when it is intensifying its political dimension .
my comments were intended to shed light on the future and to express what the europe of tomorrow could and should be .
the french authorities are fully aware of the responsibility they bear in this respect and they are approaching this presidency with the ambition to achieve progress or a successful conclusion in all the matters impacting on future development .
they shall do so with a commitment to safeguard , and improve , that which gives our whole project meaning : the protection of fundamental values and the respect of national and cultural identities , the continual determination to reconcile economic performance and social progress and to fulfil the practical expectations of the citizens , and the strengthening of europe ' s role as a major player on the international scene .
the french presidency is also determined to make progress on the matter of intensified cooperation , which was added to the igc agenda at the feira european council .
the european council in biarritz , two months before the nice council , will be an informal summit , chiefly devoted to institutional reform .
it will be an achievement for peace and democracy in our continent , and it will make the european union all the stronger .
the french presidency is , therefore , determined to achieve real progress in the accession negotiations with all the candidate countries , based on their individual merits and implementing the principle of differentiation .
bilateral dialogue with the candidate countries will , moreover , be stepped up , and dialogue will also be emphasised in the european conference of heads of state and government which i shall be convening in nice prior to the european council .
the second focus of the french presidency is a europe at the service of growth , employment and social progress .
we can already see the positive effects in all the countries of the european union .
coordinating our monetary policies , however , must necessarily be accompanied by serious social ambitions and improved coordination of our economic policies .
the french presidency will be following up the action initiated by this lisbon council .
as you know , i attach great importance to affirming the european social model as based on social dialogue , on social protection appropriate to the requirements of our time and on acknowledgement of the role of the state as the guarantor of social cohesion .
the charter of fundamental rights will have to support this model .
our priority , then , will be the adoption of a " european social agenda " .
economic growth and industrial modernisation are meaningful only if they represent a rapid fall in the rate of unemployment which , despite the positive results recorded throughout europe in recent years , is still far higher than in the united states or japan .
europe at the service of the nations also means the determination to make great efforts to achieve social justice , improve the protection of children and boost commitment to combating exclusion in all its forms , particularly in the face of the new challenges of the knowledge-based economy .
the social agenda will make it possible , on the basis of the communication which the commission has just submitted , to outline a five-year working programme involving all the operators concerned : member states , the european parliament , the commission , unions and management .
this is necessary in order to consolidate the euro and to make sure that the current growth in europe lasts .
the french presidency is today proposing to improve the operation of the 11 euro states , shortly to become 12 , by making its work more visible and more authoritative , to enhance the coordination of our budget policies by making the community inspection procedures more effective , to make progress in the harmonisation of our tax policies in the wake of the european council at feira and , finally , to take action to prepare our citizens for the forthcoming advent of the euro .
everything possible must be done to make a success of this crucial phase in both practical and human terms .
finally , we must put europe at the forefront of the information society , build up growth in the european union on the basis of our training schemes - some of the best in the world - our tremendous scientific and intellectual potential and our industry , which is a world leader .
we must also ensure that the benefits of these new technologies are accessible to all , avoiding the creation of a digital divide , and , in particular , supporting internet connections for all european schools by the end of 2001 , as decided .
europe still seems far too remote in the eyes of many of our fellow countrymen , who find it hard to see what europe gives them or can give them in their everyday life .
it is crucial that the convention responsible for framing the text completes its work in sufficiently good time in order to be able to deliver the charter by the end of this year .
i know that i shall be able to count on the support of this house in this undertaking .
the french presidency will be particularly attentive to the wto in the context of enlargement negotiations and in considering the problems encountered by specific industries , such as pig farming and the fruit and vegetable and banana industries .
the french authorities are firmly resolved to make tangible progress in the coming months , on the basis of existing and forthcoming proposals from the commission and from the authorities themselves to prevent our coastlines suffering a recurrence of this tragedy .
we all have the dover tragedy in mind .
in accordance with the conclusions of the feira european council , the presidency will draw up specific measures regarding sanctions against parties responsible for trafficking .
finally , we are resolved to make progress in achieving a european area of justice based on the mutual recognition of legal rulings and judgements .
permit me , in concluding this chapter on the europe of the citizens , to say a word or two about sport .
now that the euro 2000 football championship , which gave europeans so much pleasure and so many thrills , is over , ( applause ) we must ensure that the european union takes the specific nature of sport and its social role into more careful consideration .
the french presidency will make every effort to do so . ( applause ) the fourth and final focus of our presidency : a europe with a strong international role .
in terms of the common foreign and security policy , the french presidency will make a point of affirming the european identity , with the support of the high representative and the commission .
one of its priorities will be to consolidate the europe of defence and security which has experienced spectacular progress in recent months .
we would also like to see the interim bodies in place in brussels since 1 march fulfilling their given role in the transition to the final phase .
finally , the arms industries must confirm the ambitious european defence policies by their harmonisation and their cooperation programmes .
the results of recent months have been very positive in this respect , in terms of helicopters , missiles and the future transport aircraft .
in all these areas , the french presidency will spare no effort to ensure that europe provides itself with ample resources for its foreign policy , in a spirit of friendship and cooperation , of course , with its allies .
the european union must provide the countries in this region with a clear european perspective in order to persuade them to undertake reform and to cooperate at regional level .
this will offer an opportunity to give new impetus to the barcelona process by means of adopting a peace and stability charter and by strengthening economic and cultural links between the two shores of the sea we share .
here too the french presidency wishes to develop fully the relations it considers essential in order to construct the balanced multipolar world of the future .
the french presidency is also keen to ensure that the new convention between the european union and the african , caribbean and pacific countries is implemented efficiently .
europe must be strong and open to the world .
tomorrow , the number of member states will have more than doubled and we must find procedures to enable decisions to be taken and europe to make progress while strengthening its efficiency and legitimacy .
by working hand in hand , with mutual trust , on each of these matters , together we shall succeed in taking europe through the phases that are essential for the future .
we shall have consolidated the edifice by making it more welcoming both for those that already reside in it and those that wish to enter . ( applause ) madam president of the european parliament , mr president of the french republic , ladies and gentlemen , it is a great pleasure to stand here before you at the start of this new presidency .
progress has also been made towards an extraordinary enlargement of the union - enlargement which you have described , mr chirac , as a ' fine and necessary project ' - and towards strengthening its institutions in preparation for enlargement .
firstly , i would like to say that i support one hundred percent your commitment to developing europe ' s social agenda .
the presidency will , in particular , have to tackle a whole range of major issues in relation to which the commission has already tabled proposals .
the commission therefore supports the presidency in focusing on these issues .
at lisbon , the european council committed the member states to making great efforts to eradicate poverty , and a high level group on social protection is working with the commission on this ambitious strategy .
at the nice council we should be aiming to achieve a consensus of positions on social exclusion , and the commission has already put forward proposals on the matter .
once we have put forward our proposal , i look forward to seeing the plans for the authority move swiftly ahead under the french presidency .
the impact of our transport and energy policies on the environment , and , in particular , climate change , will be a key theme in two documents the commission intends to submit to parliament and the council this autumn .
the first is a green paper on the common transport policy and the second is a strategic document on different energy sources and the security of energy supply .
one of the major challenges facing the european union is the need to stabilise our continent , and promoting stability in the regions on our borders must clearly be a central part of that strategy .
we therefore fully support your proposal to organise a political summit between the european union and the most democratically advanced balkan countries .
the commission has already started to lay the foundations for this balkan summit and we look forward to working closely with the french presidency in order to make more detailed preparations .
since the treaty of amsterdam came into force , our legislative system has been working ever more efficiently under the new codecision procedure .
this means that the legislative process is maturing and becoming more and more consensual .
it will give even more democratic legitimacy to the european legislative process , and this is vital to the political health of the union .
madam president , mr president of the european council , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , the group of the european people ' s party and european democrats greatly appreciates the fact that you , president chirac , have spoken here today , at the start of the french presidency .
we wish you every success for the presidency .
the debates on europe ' s future , as well as those on the intergovernmental conference , go together .
i am grateful to you for bringing pierre pflimlin and robert schuman to mind .
we also want the european commission to be the european executive .
in your berlin speech , you spoke of the great project of a constitution .
which is why we are far from receptive to the idea of creating a succession of new secretariats , for this is something the european union must do , through its strong institutions and on the basis of european law . ( applause ) mr president , the most important thing of course , is for majority voting in the council of ministers to become the fundamental method of decision making .
majority voting must become the fundamental method of decision making in the council of ministers .
that is an antiquated way of looking at things and we will oppose any ideas of that ilk in no uncertain terms ! ( applause ) it is the task of the national parliaments to make a better job of supervising the activities of their own governments as members of the council of ministers , and i believe the european parliament and national parliaments should join forces to this end .
if you are successful then it will be to the advantage of us all . ( applause ) madam president , president of the council , president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen of the house , first of all , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , i should like to welcome in the french presidency .
by a fortunate coincidence , at this crucial point in our history one of the founding countries , the homeland of jean monnet , robert schuman and pierre pflimlin , is presiding over the fate of the european union .
in the first place , we share the french presidency ' s opinion that institutional reform is a basic prerequisite for the further development of the european union , especially for these fine plans for enlargement and the commitment we have undertaken .
this , however , is precisely why we need to be able to include the charter of fundamental rights in the treaty , ( loud applause ) because we must effectively establish our community of values and , in this respect , i should like to pay tribute to the french presidency ' s determination because it must not be forgotten that you have defended these principles in your own country and in europe , and we consider that if we wish to solve the problems we face at the moment looking to the future - and i am thinking of the case of austria - it is essential that we are able to include both this affirmation of a community of values as well as methods of defending these principles in the treaty .
one of these is the future of public services , of universal european services , ( applause ) and the other is the bearing they have on economic and social cohesion , in order to prevent an increase in the economic and social divide which may already exist .
we think this must be included in the package .
a europe closer to the citizens is precisely what we were asking of the commission before voting on its appointment .
there is also one sensitive subject in this area , and that is sport , which you gave as one of your priorities .
my group attaches very great importance , as you have done today , to a charter of fundamental rights as part of the package that we contemplate in nice .
like you , mr president , we believe that europe should be based on the values of freedom , dignity , tolerance , democracy and rights .
we value the access which our citizens have to democratic checks and balances - through this house and elsewhere - in the formulation of european legislation .
my group believes that a strong europe needs european institutions with a key role for the european commission .
helsinki set two tests : firstly we must reform ourselves in nice ; secondly the candidate states must take on board the acquis communautaire .
we should not add a third lock on the door by saying we must have a constitution before they join .
i believe that france , once again , has the opportunity to champion the cause of europe .
madam president , mr president , your country has taken the leadership in european football and is now required to take leadership of the european union at a key moment in its history .
i think we shall be facing such times in the next six months .
your berlin speech where you argued in favour of implementing a process to develop a european constitution is , like several of the suggestions you have made today , a positive sign for the future .
i should like , for my part , to raise three issues on which your presidency ought to be focussing , in my opinion .
this reform must be ambitious .
to put it plainly , the three points left over from amsterdam in no way represent an adequate agenda .
you declared , mr president , that we must reassert the values uniting us and defend the spirit of the founders of the european union , whose goals were peace and stability in europe .
we have , admittedly , achieved peace and stability within the european union , but let us not close our eyes to the facts .
the globalisation of issues has gained the upper hand in the course of recent years .
in the face of uncontrollable events , the implications for the future are disconcerting , and the hague summit should represent a change in this respect .
i heard you say that you were in favour of this , under france ' s leadership .
our pattern of development is in question .
your country , mr president , is one of the most critical european countries in this respect .
by achieving this , the european union would gain credit not only within the european union but also throughout the world . ( applause ) madam president , mr president , the french presidency of the european union is starting at a time when the debate on the meaning and future of the construction of europe is continually increasing in scale .
i do not think that i am exaggerating when i speak of a crisis of confidence that exists between many european citizens and the european institutions , or at the very least a malaise and a search for a new european identity .
in this respect , the slogans coming out of the mass rallies such as those held in seattle , washington , geneva and millau : " the world is not for sale " , " politicians are powerless in the face of globalisation " , " let the people decide " are the overt expression of much more widespread concerns and expectations which are of direct concern to the europe that we are building .
in order to have a hope of starting to meet these expectations , the french presidency should , in the opinion of my group , endeavour to issue positive messages in three directions , which are , incidentally , closely related .
political will is going to prove necessary in order to reach an agreement among fifteen member states against social or fiscal dumping or in order to curb the unbridled trend to liberalise public services .
action must be taken at each of these levels , in my opinion , and many others too , in order to promote a model of development in solidarity and a social europe .
more generally , the reports issued , one after another , by international organisations on the state of the world are sounding the alarm : the unacceptable tragedy of aids in africa , the disastrous review of the results in geneva of the application of the commitments made five years ago in copenhagen in order to reduce poverty , the continued stranglehold of debt and , at one and the same time , the boom in the financial world which is quite removed from the real economy and people ' s real lives .
in all these areas , people are waiting for europe to take action and , to conclude , it is on this last point that i would like , if you would permit me , to address you directly , mr president .
unfortunately , there will be two parties that appear to have problems in agreeing on the menu to be served in nice .
it is not a matter of settling a few minor details but of selecting a new decision-making process within a set of institutions that governs 80 % of the lives of europeans and which , whether we like it or not , as already quasi-federal in nature .
the brussels commission , from the very outset , and the council of ministers , since the treaty of amsterdam withdrew this initiative are federal institutions , as parliament is , and as indeed are the european central bank and the court of justice .
so if the proposals outlined by the french presidency , particularly making qualified majority voting the general rule , are confirmed in nice , then we should once and for all have enabled this federal europe to operate in isolation , protected from all the national democracies that simply gather for the quarterly photograph of the european council .
adopting a european constitution would ipso facto render all the national constitutions null and void , reduced to the level of a mere member state by-law . ( mixed reactions ) the truth , madam president , mr president-in-office of the european union , is that this europe is and shall continue to be forced to forge ahead regardless as long as it persists in thinking of itself as essentially superior to the nations which form it and , hence , destined to replace them sooner or later .
this is where chocolate is abolished but gmos are legalised .
this is where ... ( the president cut the speaker off since speaking time had expired ) mr president , there was a time , when you yourself , mr chirac , took sides against the foreigner .
you recommended saying ' yes ' to maastricht because the 1995 presidential elections were drawing close .
by instigating a simplification of the closer cooperation procedures , you have offered our european partners a two- rather than a three-way directorate .
belittling france by allowing important decisions to be taken without france ' s agreement , when , through this closer cooperation , european treaties may , if necessary , be amended to the detriment of france ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) madam president , mr president , france is assuming the presidency of the european union for the next six months .
this name in itself represents our programme , whose prime objective is to ensure that the identities and aspirations of each country are taken into optimum consideration , in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity .
following the crisis of the santer commission - which rocked the institutions - why the devil did they bury the expert committee ' s report exposing the serious mismanagement within the institutions ?
we reject government by officials as much as we reject government by judges .
consequently , the igc must not be the instrument of a reform which will turn the europe of tomorrow into a technocratic monster , ever more ignorant of the peoples ' legitimate concerns and of the opinion of the national parliaments that represent them .
we cannot agree to this reform granting some states the right and the power to force binding texts on states which are unwilling .
the institutional reform we are promised is putting a stranglehold on our nations , especially the smallest ones .
whereas the construction of europe ought to be seeking to achieve coordination between the policies of member states , the objective of integration is leading us towards an intolerable process of uniformisation .
in addition , there is the entire debate on balanced regional development and respect for the users of territories , and also the future of public services and state monopolies .
in conclusion , mr president , we hope that you will have the determination to restore the right of expression to the elected representatives and the various peoples of europe in order to prevent a new rural and territorial divide .
i am pleased to learn of the intentions which he announced on behalf of the commission , which are generally in line with those of the french presidency .
this is , as you know , one of the objectives of our presidency , along with the extension of qualified majority voting .
mr chairman , the presidency can already answer your question regarding greater transparency on the part of the council .
this is one step in the direction you suggested , and i hope that it will serve to improve relations between our two great institutions and also , of course , to clarify the development of the subjects under discussion .
we also share your concern to have strong institutions , as you emphasised .
i said as much yesterday in paris , at the meeting with the commission .
let me add , to respond to a concern you expressed , that i endorse completely the idea you put forward to the effect that we need a single institutional framework and , above all , no parallel frameworks .
everything that can give new impetus to the construction of europe must be achieved both within the institutions and in accordance with the acquis communautaire .
regarding the european social model , one of the main objectives of the french presidency is to arrive at an agreement on the social agenda in nice .
we shall do everything in our power to achieve this objective .
for a long time i have represented an extremely poor , rural constituency in france , and i can tell you that i consider , and have always considered , that it had just the same entitlement - and indeed the same duties to contribute in the form of taxation - with regard to the main public services , the lifeblood of the nation , as any district in paris .
we shall therefore take great care to ensure that the necessary modernisation of public services is not confused with making them profitable , which would be a serious mistake . ( applause ) mr baron crespo mentioned many other things , particularly closer cooperation , development of the social model and enlargement .
we should like to see the convention , in which parliament is to a great extent involved , issue its conclusions very quickly , before biarritz , if possible , so that we can discuss them there .
we should await their conclusions on this subject .
closer cooperation is in no way intended to create a europe divided between those in the vanguard and those lagging behind , but simply to give the necessary impetus to the proper operation of europe and thus to enable those that wish to go slightly faster in certain areas to do so , which will necessarily result in others being carried along in its wake .
mr cox , you need have no fear on the subject of enlargement , which other speakers also mentioned , and which president prodi discussed in a particularly firm manner .
it is a shared political determination to be capable of applying the same rules throughout the europe of tomorrow .
we shall carry out our work in this field as quickly and as well as possible , with a view , i would stress , as president prodi said just now , to enlarging as quickly as possible .
we can discuss europe ' s frontiers afterwards - that is another matter - but peace and democracy must apply to the whole of europe .
he also mentioned the state of the world today in terms which , i must admit , moved me and which i endorse .
it is true that we live in a world where the gap between rich and poor is increasing .
the undp report for 1999 , by which i mean not the report tabled this year but last year , gave an example which , although not significant , is still striking , saying that the three largest private fortunes in the world today are equivalent to the sum of the gross national products of all the least developed countries , representing 600 million people .
i am not , of course , going to enter into such a debate right now , even though europe cannot remain apart from these debates , and so the presidency , like the commission and parliament , must necessarily get involved .
it also has dangers , however , in three areas in particular .
this is true in terms of the citizens within a single country and today we can observe an increase in exclusion despite strong growth and declining unemployment .
the subject is to be discussed , moreover , in the near future in g7 and g8 , but it is a subject of concern to everyone , especially europe .
it is not obvious , but it is a real problem , which must be taken seriously . ( applause ) the typical example mentioned by a number of speakers was the hague conference to be held in autumn on greenhouse gas emissions .
the final disadvantage , the final risk of globalisation , involves everything related to large-scale crime .
i of course share his feeling that europe must be first and foremost a europe of the citizens .
we do not do this enough , that is true , even though , in my opinion , a great deal of progress has been made in this area .
it is true that our cultural diversity is a source of wealth , and that the principle of subsidiarity is an absolute necessity .
i am thinking , for example , of the german lander , but there are , of course , many other examples that could be cited .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i am delighted to have had the opportunity to make a few comments on the very interesting contributions made by the representatives of this house , and i thank you for the welcome you have given me here today . ( loud applause ) i should like to thank the president , mr jacques chirac , for the very full answers he has given the group chairmen in this house .
we shall carry on with our debate .
in his speech last week in the reichstag in berlin , which was universally recognised as historic , the president-in-office of the council opened up new perspectives for the french presidency , and also , i hope , for the presidencies which are to follow .
our fellow citizens await a europe which at last has the determination to review its modus operandi and to strive to achieve greater clarity , greater transparency and greater efficiency .
the reforms of the commission and the council must respond to these requirements .
we must keep in mind that , even if it is not an easy task , france and its partners are under an obligation to achieve results .
far from clouding the issue , today ' s debate has offered some clarification as to the direction of the action to be undertaken in the months and years to come , which i shall sum up as follows : bringing europe closer to the citizens , all the citizens without exception , be they close to the decision-making centres or remote , economic modernisation and a social europe , efficiency and a strong presence in the world .
i have every confidence in jacques chirac , president-in-office of the council , and in his ability , along with our partners within the european union , to meet these historic challenges .
mr president , i have a point of order under rule 120 of the rules of procedure , which moreover is expressly quoted on page 25 of today ' s agenda .
according to the schedule , the council was to have 30 minutes ' speaking time .
mr president , minister , ladies and gentlemen , we all agree on setting the course we are heading for beyond the french presidency , but this forces us to mention the questions that will be raised , regardless of whether the intergovernmental conference is successful .
i believe that the projects undertaken by lionel jospin ' s government , in france and in europe , give the president-in-office of the council every opportunity to fulfil this objective .
we must also make a success of this agenda , and this means , first and foremost , making a success of the intergovernmental conference .
we are pleased to see that this has been possible .
then , i should like to tell the french presidency that it can count on parliament ' s support to prefer rather that we have no nice agreement than a mediocre treaty .
we are thinking , obviously , of the reform underway within the commission , but also and perhaps more importantly , within the council .
as regards the social agenda , once again we are pleased to see that the prospect of full employment is henceforth seen as embracing the whole of the european union .
we are delighted , moreover , to see the commitment of lionel jospin ' s government to bring a number of essential directives to a successful conclusion .
at the european council in biarritz , the convention members will be ready to propose a comprehensive text which is to include economic and social rights .
in the field of reciprocal recognition of legal rulings , we are continually faced with situations where the divergent nature of our judicial structures involve our fellow citizens in serious personal deadlocks .
mr president , one final word to express how important we think it is that the french presidency should also transform the acquis of the treaty of amsterdam on the subject of services of general interest .
such services are also part of the modern world , for example internet access for all .
i was , however , hoping for a clearer commitment regarding the fundamental rights included in the union ' s agenda , for two reasons .
in the first place , these rights must be enshrined in the forthcoming charter of fundamental rights .
in his speech , however , the president did not cite the examination of this charter as one of the main points of the european council in biarritz .
in the second place , since amsterdam , fundamental rights have formed the foundations of our union and should represent the constant reference for any member state action .
the president was the first to refer to the terms of article 6 of the treaty in connection with the haider case .
the measures the french presidency has already announced in the areas of justice and home affairs appear to live up to this challenge .
mr president , minister , let me share a few comments with you in the intimate surroundings of the end of the day 's sitting .
and then i must say that , as paul lannoye said , i am saddened when i hear people discussing foreign policy and sparing no expense on arms and defence without even mentioning conflict prevention .
the demonstrations in seattle , geneva and millau , however , show that another sort of europe , another sort of globalisation , is possible .
for the people , these requirements are the priorities in the debate , which is certainly needed , on the weighting of votes or the right of veto .
mr president , minister , i am speaking on behalf of the italian radicals in the tdi group who , as everyone knows , are european federalists .
i shall use my speaking time , however , to remind you that this parliament asked the igc to grant parliament the right finally to decide on its own location .
this is a fundamental right , and three hundred members of this house , moreover , made it very clear that they are unhappy about being forced to come to strasbourg twelve times a year .
i hope that the french presidency will take due account of this issue , which we consider to be extremely important .
i should like to discuss the three factors which i think are at the root of the crisis in europe today .
i shall sum this up in one sentence : work on the constitution and therefore on europe ' s prospects must be clearly launched during the french presidency .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the french president has introduced the french presidency ' s substantial programme to us today and it would be impossible for me to cover even a fraction of the points in four minutes .
my second point concerns reinforced cooperation in the construction of a european union of security and defence .
i wholeheartedly agree with you when you say that the european union must have all the means and instruments at its disposal that it needs to pursue a truly common foreign and security policy worthy of the name , which also means strengthening our military capability and establishing the political and military structures we need for a common foreign and security policy .
the new weighting of votes in the council is also important for striking a new balance between large and small , north and south and rich and poor within the union , but that is not crucial either .
mr president , mr president , the french presidency ' s programme is interesting and in no way devoid of substance .
i am not convinced that this is the direction we are currently taking , in spite of all the fine words that have been spoken here this morning .
mr president , the historical issue concerning the french presidency , for i do feel that it is a historical issue , is first and foremost to open up the way for the construction of a europe for all europeans .
since then we have dawdled and dragged our feet over the reform of these institutions .
today , the french presidency has an obligation to achieve results .
a review of decision-making mechanisms in order to prevent paralysis and a review of the functioning of the council and the commission are all on the agenda and i think that the projects for tomorrow and beyond must not conceal what is required today .
the success of the igc now will actually be the best basis on which to build the huge project for the greater europe of tomorrow .
in our opinion , there is a clear dividing line between those who want enlargement to bring less political integration and those who consider that greater political integration and clearly defined timeframes will be necessary .
we believe in increased synergy between the european parliament and national parliaments , but we are against commingling which undermines the fundamental consideration that the european parliament is the parliamentary organ of supranationality elected by direct universal suffrage .
i would like to make one last point regarding the european union ' s role in the international institutions .
the positive results we hope for from the intergovernmental conference should allow us to proceed to the necessary reform of the institutions in preparation for enlargement .
in this context , the council , the commission and the european parliament will each have to play an equally important and equally influential role , but these roles must include active cooperation .
it will have the sure political and parliamentary support of the forza italia delegation in the ppe-de group , for the italy of today and of tomorrow will certainly be a protagonist in the construction of that europe in which we all believe so strongly .
mr president , what a change we have seen from mr chirac ' s speech of a few years ago !
i feel that i must congratulate the socialist government on having convinced the french president so thoroughly .
that is precisely the problem with several words that are used in the current debate .
this is a decentralised federation in which the member states play an extremely important role in decision-making and remain in control of the treaties .
the treaties , after all , define the union ' s sphere of competences , the powers of its institutions and the procedures for adopting legislation or the budget .
the european university institute in florence has submitted a fine project for our consideration , which makes our treaties considerably shorter , more readable and easier to use , without even altering their content .
we must also look at the changes we need to make to our constitution .
on this subject , we must above all do what president chirac suggested , which is to ensure that , in a union of almost 30 members , there is no risk of action being blocked .
what is a fact , however , is that certain areas , or certain states , sometimes create delays , which are sometimes temporary .
there is therefore no need to create a hard core and we should instead create a situation in which our constitution prevents action being blocked .
these are the two crucial points for the igc .
concentrate on these and above all , do so before enlargement .
mr president , i congratulate the french presidency of the european union on its ambitious approach in all areas and for its intention not to end the intergovernmental conference with a minimal agreement , but with results which make enlargement a real possibility .
due to time restrictions , i will only refer to three points .
in other words , we want closer integration which is open to all current and future members of the union .
my third point , mr president , is that i am also one of those who believes that we need a constitution for the union .
this does not change anything , but it does mean something very important : that the citizens may finally become aware of which system is governing them .
it would be far better to convert the european council of ministers to a kind of federal council .
surely this is the most natural way to provide europe with a bicameral system consisting of a parliament and senate .
it would be ideal if the decision was taken in nice to devise a project of this kind in two to three years ' time .
mr president , minister , the french presidency has committed itself to a courageous , ambitious , brilliant agenda , considering some of the difficulties we are experiencing at this time .
the important aspect of president chirac ' s speech was , we felt , our common values and intentions .
this is the only way we can move forward in the intense debate on the future of the european union and reconcile the economic development of europe with the strengthening of the european social model and with the fight against social exclusion and modern forms of poverty , in order to bring europe closer to the citizens , step up negotiations on enlargement and increasingly consolidate the european union ' s role in the world .
first of all , i wish to say how delighted i am to be here with you and to be speaking on behalf of the french government , since i was a member of the european parliament , before it was located in this superb hemicycle - between 1994 and 1997 .
more specifically , i should also like to acknowledge the encouragement given to the french government by pervenche beres and klaus hansch , as well as the ambition sought by some speakers , such as mr watson .
unlike mr bayrou , i do not think that it is fair , appropriate or timely today to eradicate these two phases , as it were , and to introduce them both under the french presidency , because that would entail the risk of complicating the outcome of the igc or , quite the opposite , to minimise this outcome , and ensure that it would only appear as an annex .
our position is quite clear .
as mr corbett pointed out , it is true that the most important points are , in particular , the extension of qualified majority voting , which generally goes hand in hand with codecision with the european parliament , and closer cooperation , because this is a bridge between the first and second stages , between the present and the future , since it improves the functioning of the european union and because it enables us to think about the europe of tomorrow .
i wish to assure the european parliament that this charter is one of our priorities and we hope that the convention will prove worthy of the task so that we will be able to discuss it in detail at the biarritz european council , with a view , as the french president has said , to making as much progress as possible with the content .
i am aware of the more or less unanimous feeling of the european parliament about the restrictive nature of this charter .
the commission will shortly be giving its opinion on this study , mr president , next week , i believe .
member states will also have to study this document , which inevitably raises many questions .
i shall say quite clearly that france , - and here once again for a moment i am speaking on behalf of a major national delegation in the council - would not be able to accept this .
honourable members of the european parliament , mr president of the commission , these are some of my thoughts , certainly not all of them , that have been stimulated by this debate , which was of extremely high quality and very encouraging for our presidency .
over the last three years , a reversal in its external economic situation has weakened its economic fabric , which is structured but ageing .
this discontent was expressed in february ' s referendum on the constitution , which was the first time that the presidential party had lost an election since independence in 1980 .
these shifts , which i have just mentioned , have resulted in the deaths of 33 people , they have made the economic crisis worse and have distorted fair competition in the elections , thereby creating a real risk of instability in southern africa .
the european union nevertheless considered it important that elections should be held and that the results should be credible and acceptable .
it therefore sought the agreement of the zimbabwean authorities to send , as far in advance of the elections as possible , a large mission of nearly 200 observers , thereby demonstrating the union ' s interest in seeing democracy consolidated in that country .
although our observers noted that the degree of violence , irregularities and intimidation in the period leading up to the elections meant that the words ' free and honest ' could not be applied to the fifth legislative elections in the history of zimbabwe , they nevertheless emphasised the efficient organisation of the voting itself , the large turnout - i believe it was the largest since independence was achieved - and the peaceful atmosphere in which it took place .
on behalf of the european union , i should also like to congratulate the zimbabwean people , who , by taking part in these elections in such numbers , have proved their determination to take their destiny into their hands in a peaceful and democratic way .
the entry into parliament of a significant opposition - in fact it almost has a majority in the seats that were contested in these elections - suggests that constructive debates will be held .
because the union wishes to continue to intervene on behalf of those who have been worst affected by the crisis , it is particularly willing to provide assistance for the necessary land reform in order to reduce poverty , despite the fact that this has not been implemented in an orderly , transparent or rational way .
they have all done a magnificent job .
they clearly managed to fulfill their objectives under very difficult circumstances and they discharged their mandate in an extremely effective way .
the mobilisation of a full and experienced team on the ground less than four weeks after an informal decision by european union foreign ministers is a tribute to the enormous efforts of everyone concerned .
the honourable gentlemen is right to recommend that the european union should in the coming weeks and months monitor very carefully what is happening in zimbabwe and provide assistance and support wherever it is appropriate for us to do so .
we would certainly want to endorse this , and my colleague commissioner nielson and i will certainly intensify our efforts to strengthen channels of communication , both formal and informal , with president mugabe and his government , to facilitate the transition to effective multi-party democracy .
the outcome of the legislative elections could mark a major transformation in the country 's political culture , the transition to a multiparty system in which parliament will replace the ruling party zanu pf politburo as the main policy-making institution .
the new government of zimbabwe and all those who want to see the country rise above its present serious difficulties , whether they relate to the economic situation , the question of land reform or the terrible scourge of hiv , must now address the challenges effectively , collectively and constructively .
the result of these elections offers the eu a new opportunity for reviewing our cooperation with zimbabwe .
zimbabwe 's eur 110 million 8th edf national indicative programme has a direct poverty alleviation orientation .
its main sectors of cooperation are agriculture , health and education .
the commission 's approach so far has been that aid directed to the protection of basic social services and the reinforcement of civil society should be maintained even during periods of crisis .
a total of eur 19 million is about to be released for a micro-projects programme which in the interests of consensual policies has been delayed until after the elections .
the commission has maintained its support for land reform through this micro-projects programme , which is actually for poverty alleviation assistance for legally acquired land in resettlement schemes .
however , in april the commission froze the eur 2 million for technical and policy support for land reform .
the commission and other donors are ready to support the process , provided it is in the framework of legality , transparency and poverty alleviation objectives , in accordance with the 1998 donor land conference agreements .
this programme is to be financed from the eur 33 million in the 8th edf second tranche .
i will take a decision on this in the next few months depending on developments in zimbabwe .
in any event the european commission is continuing to support poverty alleviation schemes .
if the government seizes the opportunity offered by these new elections , eu support could be more substantial in the future .
it is my pleasure to give the first presentation of the final report of the eu election observation mission to zimbabwe here in the european parliament , an institution that has taught me so much and been such a joy to work in . " these were not perfect elections , " said the opposition leader morgan tsvangirai drily .
our mission had , therefore from the beginning stressed that we were not only there for the election process , but that our final report would also attach great attention to the post-election phase .
our hope was that , in spite of the extensive violence and intimidation campaign for which the ruling zanu-pf had by far the greatest responsibility , the people , aided by a large international and national monitoring presence , could cast their votes in a relatively free , fair and non-violent environment on election day .
but i would also like to stress that there was much more non-violence in the form of the millions of people who wanted to exercise the democratic right to vote .
the main opposition party , while challenging the results in 20 constituencies , has also accepted the results of the elections .
the european union should endeavour to ensure that international observers are deployed in good time for the presidential election scheduled to take place in 2002 .
the european union should make a particular effort during the coming weeks and months to monitor events in zimbabwe closely and provide assistance and support where appropriate .
the commission , of course , responded in a swift and commendable way to the decision of the council , and the continuous cooperation and dialogue throughout the process has been invaluable .
let me end by saying that the eu mission was a high-profile one , very well received among the people in general to a point that would be the envy of several member states , including mine , mr patten .
our mission was an act of commitment to the people in africa and to democracy worldwide .
i see the mission to zimbabwe as a natural consequence of our support for the struggle for african independence and of our wish to build a strong partnership with a peaceful and democratic zimbabwe .
pierre schori and his team have rendered outstanding service to democracy in zimbabwe .
it is still important for us to engage in dialogue with the government , the opposition and the socially relevant forces , so that in future , zimbabwe is able to make a contribution towards stability in southern africa .
the elections in zimbabwe have been both a victory and a defeat for mugabe .
they were a defeat in the sense that , for the first time in its short independent life , zimbabwe has a multi-party political system , which was something that mugabe clearly opposed .
apart from tolerating , and even , as we know , promoting , a climate of intimidation and violence , mugabe has made considerable errors of judgement .
on the one hand , he has underestimated the european union ' s seriousness , willingness and capacity to act in the case of zimbabwe .
mugabe has brought to these elections the customs and methods of a war of liberation , on occasion treating political rivals as if they were colonial occupiers who needed to be banished .
this relative consolidation of a new urban vote , together with the manipulation of official democracy and the violation of human rights , would not otherwise have led to many citizens voting against him , and that is what they have done .
the country and the population will gain as a whole if the current government and the emerging opposition show sufficient political wisdom and common sense to generously and cautiously deal with the transition from former political customs to other new ones .
in this area , the opposition also has a role to play .
mr president , this will help the future of zimbabwe , its society and the new political culture born of these elections .
threats of violence against supporters of the mdc have continued after the elections .
the archbishop of bulawayo has been threatened .
we should take direct action against assets that president mugabe owns outside of zimbabwe .
mr president , my speaking time is too restricted to describe the fate of a country for which , for so many years , the situation was in fact quite hopeful , but which for the past couple of years has been on a slippery slope towards greater underdevelopment , whilst the population of zimbabwe is highly developed .
the population is knowledgeable despite the fact that the opposition was prevented from taking part in the election propaganda in a normal way , at least as far as the official media is concerned .
the events of zimbabwe compel us , however , to consider the relationship between democracy and values , and this may be the right forum for that , as we refer to the eu as a society of values .
the philosopher and theologian , niebuhr , once said that a person ' s sense of what is right makes democracy possible , but his inclinations in the opposite direction make democracy absolutely necessary .
they also augur extremely well for the european union ' s future cooperation with that country .
there are many things that now seem possible or , in any event , easier , between us .
the report drawn up by the mission led by mr schori , the thoroughness of whose work i must emphasis once again , as did commissioners patten and nielsen , provides us with a perfectly clear and impartial analysis of the way in which zimbabwe ' s legislative elections were held .
the electoral situation was particularly tense , not to say violent .
the benefit of this mission in this regard , as in many others , is undeniable .
the council presidency is delighted at the generally smooth running of these elections , even if , here and there , the voting conditions might have left us rather perplexed and the mission ' s conclusions on this matter are extremely enlightening .
the council presidency fully supports the commission ' s analysis of the need to cooperate with zimbabwe .
it is crucial that european aid has a direct bearing on the economic and social problems that are besetting the people of zimbabwe .
community funds must now be released , as commissioner nielsen suggested .
for its part , the government of zimbabwe must also move forward and fulfil its commitments to land reform , to respect for court judgements and to economic transparency .
i am convinced that this process needs to ensure the stabilisation of the country and also its democratic involvement in regional integration .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
firstly , the point must be made quite forcefully that the existence of organised criminal networks , as well as the scale of professional smuggling , which is contemptible but lucrative , plays a central role in illegal immigration , both in increasing the flows themselves and in the methods for smuggling people , of which the tragedy at dover is an extreme example .
this point must be emphasised in order to respond to those who say that it is immigration control that creates illegal immigrants .
police chiefs have identified a russian mafia , exploiting sri lankans and chinese , and a turkish mafia is taking charge of kurds , afghans and iranians .
the fact that many of these illegal immigrants are concentrated in calais , a bridging post for the united kingdom - more than 10 000 have been arrested since august 1999 - shows the extremely active nature of the smugglers : 400 of them have been arrested since august 1999 .
since it is easier , more lucrative and less risky than other forms of trafficking , such as drug trafficking , for example , trafficking in illegal immigrants is becoming a major issue in police and judicial action and cooperation .
non-lawful immigration or the trafficking in human beings is a new form of slavery that cannot be tolerated in our democratic societies .
we know , for example , that in order to use the services of a smuggler , it costs a chinese national between eur 10 000 and eur 20 000 and years of illegal work to repay this debt .
the rhetoric of calling for a massive opening up of immigration for work or for the automatic right of residence for all immigrants only feeds this dream of europe and helps to push hundreds of thousands of people every year into the clutches of criminal networks working in illegal immigration .
the council is determined to implement all necessary measures to combat this odious trafficking .
since 1995 , france has had a central office for the prevention of illegal immigration and employment , which has greatly enhanced its action in breaking up criminal networks in the last two years .
given the reality of the trade in human beings and of the traffic in illegal immigration , the french presidency wishes to promote european cooperation , based on the conclusions of the tampere summit and on the following principles : co-development , the integration of foreigners , the fight against illegal immigration and the common policy on asia .
the council must base its action on the guidelines adopted at tampere and i quote : " the european union needs a comprehensive approach to migration addressing political , human rights and development issues in countries and regions of origin and transit " .
migratory movements are actually due to numerous factors : demographic differences between the north and the south , the continual increase in inequalities of income and wealth between the richest and poorest countries , the instability of certain political situations and the often false image that immigrants have of what a future in europe might hold for them .
the whole purpose of co-development is to link up these countries ' policies for development in order to exercise control over migration flows .
france will strive to provide new impetus to this progress towards co-development , making use of its experience in this area .
there are two questions to be answered : how can we encourage the development of local projects , specifically through aid for training and the resettlement of foreigners who wish to return to their mother country in order to contribute to its economic development , and how can this local development contribute to controlling migration flows by stabilising the population ?
the study being carried out on these two issues will benefit the future work of the high level working group on asylum and immigration , which is today striving to implement the specific measures established in five action plans , covering morocco and sri lanka .
implementing this priority led to a seminar being held on 6 and 7 july in paris , in which experts and several ministers will take part .
the european union ' s second main priority , which was established at tampere , is to integrate foreign nationals who are legally entitled to be in our countries .
this is an important point with regard to the fight against trafficking in human beings , which feeds off the fact that some foreign nationals in the european union are on the margins of , or excluded from , society .
this integration requires a firm policy to provide equal economic and social rights and an equally staunch fight against any form of discrimination , particularly in the field of employment .
the french presidency is planning to hold a seminar in october on this theme , with a view to presenting the council with a draft text on the harmonisation of permits for extended periods of residence , which is an essential mechanism for integration .
the opportunity to adopt the nationality of member states is also a fundamental aspect of integrating foreign nationals in europe , but we realise that , in this area , each country applies its own laws .
the tampere council specifically stressed this priority , and i quote : " the european council stresses the need for more efficient management of migration flows at all their stages .
the council has urged the forthcoming french presidency and the commission to ensure that the tampere conclusions on this subject are implemented as a matter of urgency .
the french presidency has already proposed four initiatives to the council .
the proposed text provides for a minimum fine of eur 2000 .
a second draft framework decision seeks to increase the criminal punishment for aiding the illegal entry or stay in a country .
this text will therefore play an important role in more effectively curbing the traffic in human beings .
the french presidency ' s third initiative was to also submit a draft directive on cooperation in the matter of expulsions .
the purpose of this draft directive is to facilitate the implementation of an expulsion measure passed by one member state against a foreign national who is not legally entitled to stay , when this measure is taken by any other state , the foreign national having been arrested in their territory .
in its capacity as holder of the presidency , france has submitted new proposals in this field , specifically an action plan , which the european institutions are about to discuss .
first of all , it is crucial to increase police cooperation in the exchange of information on illegal migration flows and on criminal networks .
as the feira conclusions emphasise , it is particularly important to develop europol ' s role in curbing the traffic in human beings .
the french presidency therefore intends immediately to ask europol to submit a report on the action it has undertaken in this area .
the other aim in the field of police cooperation is to strengthen the rapid warning mechanism , which must be made sufficiently effective to enable member states to be informed about and to react in good time to events connected with illegal immigration .
increasing this coordination also involves establishing a network of liaison officers from the member states in the countries where the immigration originates , in order to improve understanding of particular situations , to control immigration at source , particularly through the checking of travel documents at the point of embarkation at airports .
this whole range of projects , designed to strengthen the fight against illegal immigration , will be the subject of a seminar on criminal networks , which is to be held in paris on 20 and 21 july , in other words , in a few days ' time .
this seminar will bring together high level representatives of the member states , the countries of central and eastern europe , the united states , australia , canada and mexico .
several ministers from the member states as well as the heads of various immigration services and border police from member states will be taking part in this symposium .
i should also like to emphasise the fact that one of the fundamental points resulting from tampere is the principle of harmonising the right of asylum between member states .
this is another important tool in the fight against illegal immigration .
the right to asylum is frequently used by criminal networks as a legal tool to make the entry into a country and the stay there easier for illegal immigrants .
the main difficulty in our task is therefore the need to reconcile this fundamental right to asylum , which is recognised in international conventions , with the fight against fraud .
the summit conclusions state that " this system should include , in the short term , a clear and workable determination of the state responsible for the examination of an asylum application , common standards for a fair and efficient asylum procedure , and common minimum conditions of reception of asylum seekers " .
we must also rapidly attain the objective of a fair and efficient asylum system in europe .
there is therefore an urgent need to harmonise the conditions of reception for asylum seekers , in order to limit internal flows into european union territory and thereby achieve a more balanced division between member states .
we hope to reach our first conclusions at next december ' s council , so that we can contribute to the preparation of the commission ' s draft directive , which is planned for the beginning of 2001 .
the council is therefore determined to use all necessary means to fight against the traffic in human beings and to do so in accordance with the tampere and feira conclusions .
the commission wishes to reiterate the fact that the framework for such a policy was established by the tampere european council and that precise deadlines have been set for implementing it , both by the treaty of amsterdam and the european council itself .
if such a policy is to have a lasting effect , it must form part of the overall approach defined at tampere , which requires both a more efficient management of migration flows and the development of partnerships with the countries of origin and transit , the establishment of a common asylum system and the guarantee of fair treatment for nationals of third countries who are legally resident in member states ' territory .
a deadline , which runs up to the end of this year , has been set for the formal adoption of the legislative instruments that will enable the main players in this kind of trafficking to be punished .
this does not only involve monitoring the european union ' s points of entry , but also monitoring what is happening within our member states , particularly with regard to the illegal labour market .
furthermore , the traffic in human beings in particular must be curbed , since it involves trafficking in women and children for the purpose of sexual exploitation , which is a specific feature of the traffic in human beings in general .
the commission also urges member states to increase their cooperation with interpol , so that this body is able to make full use of all its resources in the fight against organised crime in this area .
in this respect , we wish to emphasise the importance of the conference to be held by the french presidency on 20 and 21 july in paris , which the minister has just mentioned .
all means should be investigated in order to facilitate administrative cooperation , following the example of the odysseus programme , a third of whose projects that have been retained for 2000 are already contributing to the fight against illegal immigration .
within the framework of cooperation with countries and regions of origin and transit in general , particular attention must be paid both to combating poverty and to respect for human rights .
we should consider the option of increasing the appropriations that have been earmarked for this purpose in the preliminary draft budget for 2001 .
in addition to this , forms of closer cooperation could be considered for applicant countries , particularly in the areas of training , equipment , and the exchange of information on criminal networks .
with this in mind , we feel that it is important to develop cooperation agreements between europol and the police forces in applicant countries as quickly as possible .
the proposals that the commission has already submitted concerning the european refugee fund and temporary protection , as well as the launch of the process of revising the dublin convention , should be swiftly followed up by other initiatives on the procedures and conditions for the reception of asylum-seekers .
the commission is in the process of evaluating the report by the european parliament on its communication on a common procedure in order to present , before the end of this year , a legislative initiative on a common procedure for asylum in europe .
as was said at tampere , the whole purpose of the exercise is to achieve , in the medium term , a common definition of refugee status and , to complement this , other subsidiary forms of protection .
mr president , it is a tragedy that it has taken the deaths of another 58 people to get the problem of trafficking firmly on the international , political agenda .
the dover disaster has once again opened our eyes to the unscrupulous practices of traffickers in human beings and to the powerlessness - or should that be unwillingness ? - on the part of the european union to stamp out this disgraceful type of exploitation .
trafficking in human beings has grown into a bigger business than trafficking in drugs , according to the economist last week .
organised crime has discovered that this business is not only more profitable , there is less risk involved too .
this internationalisation of organised crime is in stark contrast to the inability of the eu member states to adopt a coordinated approach in dealing with the trafficking in human beings .
in our resolution , we at least call for the application of the principle of solidarity and make a few very specific proposals for far-reaching cooperation in the fight against the trafficking in human beings .
mr president , i would also like to begin my intervention by saying that my sentiments about the dover catastrophe are deeply felt .
having said this , i am sure , as commissioner vitorino has said , that the european union needs a common policy in order to manage the legal entry of immigrants - bearing in mind our economic , social and demographic situation - in a reasonable way , preventing arbitrary treatment and , above all , turning to legal immigration avenues instead of traffickers in human beings .
we also have the responsibility - and i would like to highlight this - to apply laws which already exist in the whole of the european union and which regulate our labour market .
because that is what it comes down to : each time a policy is announced , but this time , we need to do something about it , because we know that the trafficking in human beings simply continues .
but i would like to point out something else .
the heads of government themselves , under the leadership of president chirac , who were here this morning , could chip in straight away .
when they meet in nice , they could abolish the right of veto in european justice policy .
thirdly , how the current policies of the european union and its member states help to create refugees .
we need to examine the consequences of our policies on , for example , trade , its rules and terms and who we will trade with , the conduct of companies based in the european union and their operations in other countries such as nigeria , the arms sales by member states to repressive regimes .
mr president , 58 chinese immigrants who arrived at dover , in the hope of a better life , have died in horrific conditions , surrounded by crates of tomatoes .
let us not forget yagine and fode , the two boys from guinea , who wanted to see brussels last summer .
fourteen kurds died of asphyxiation in the hold of a burning ship in patras .
the debate that has opened as a result of the dover tragedy has focused on the traffic in human beings and the eradication of the mafias that organise the criminal networks .
as a result , in france , chinese illegal immigrants are forced to work for years in sweat-shops to pay for their journey .
the dogma of liberal globalisation has magnified the free movement of goods and capital , but is seeking to stop the free movement of people .
it is true that the free movement established by the european union is a fundamental right , but this is reserved for its own nationals .
all of these factors have simply created new forms of illegal immigration .
a seminar is certainly a good idea , minister , but it should cover a common immigration policy based on the principle of freedom of movement , improving rights ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , the horrific death of 58 chinese illegal immigrants , discovered by british customs officers at dover , highlights , above all , the scale of the pressure that migration is exerting on the countries of europe .
in a case which is so typical , the best possible response we can provide is to combat illegal immigration and particularly the mafia-type organisations behind this new form of trafficking in human beings .
we are rather shocked to hear the words of commissioner vitorino , who , on 20 june , on the subject of the dover tragedy , said that this , amongst other events , was proof of the need for a genuine policy on admission and integration , which makes a definitive break with the fantasy of zero immigration .
on behalf of the council , minister , you informed us that the immigration policy and the fight against crimes related to illegal immigration are two separate issues .
minister , i believe that parliament may be able to take a stance on this matter which opposes what you have said today .
there are outbreaks of violence and xenophobia all over europe and , while here we are talking about a new globalised economic society and a new information society , we do not realise that organised crime , trafficking in human beings , sexual exploitation and drug-trafficking have also become globalised .
that is to say , we are talking about a new form of criminality and human slavery which reminds us of the pre-abolitionist era in the united states .
this is the responsibility of some very important international organisations and there is a desperate need for international cooperation to combat one of the most shameful violations of human rights ; international cooperation of european police forces and judges with police and judges in the countries where the migrants come from , who also have responsibility for the problem .
minister , commissioner , you have truly disappointed me .
the tampere conclusions make a clear call for the commission to submit a report on the implementation of the conclusions of the high level working group on asylum and immigration for the consideration of the european council in december 2000 .
this means that , in six months , you will have to draw up a report on what you have achieved .
we talk and talk , draft and produce texts and can be very low , very pessimistic , but it is the first time that we are talking at global level and that something is being done to solve the problem .
realistic in the sense that practice and theory are two different things .
chinese girls , and women , in particular , are more communicative than men , because i have the impression that women are less fearful when it comes to this kind of thing .
we will overcome illegal trafficking when we tackle the causes of the gap between rich and poor countries , when we practise a policy of cooperation and development which allows everyone to live as a citizen of the world .
indeed i am delighted whenever the council presidency comes up with fresh proposals , and a great many proposals have also been produced on this occasion which are to be welcomed .
there have been a whole host of individual measures where the second measure has often been put in place before the first , instead of the other way around .
i am even tempted to suggest that they might use things like the echelon system to start fighting against these traffickers , but that might be rather provocative in view of the vote coming up on thursday .
the second element is the provision of legal residence for foreign nationals and , from this point of view , i do not think that a policy of zero immigration is right for europe .
the third and last element consists of combating illegal immigration , and particularly criminal networks .
under our presidency , we have the opportunity to build on the proposals presented in this debate .
i am thinking in particular of the proposal by commissioner vitorino on readmission agreements with the countries of origin , such as china , for example , with regard to making the trafficking in human beings for purposes of sexual exploitation a specific crime .
we have planned an informal council meeting , a justice and home affairs council , for the end of this month , in marseilles , and , to that end , we have tabled this issue on the agenda .
we carried out these measures in the six months following tampere , in compliance with the deadline adopted under the scoreboard that the commission presented to the council .
the commission is not behind schedule , and although this is a complex debate , it is under way , both in parliament and in the council .
you said that my speech did not match the deadline that was set for the end of this year , so that the nice european council can evaluate the policy on asylum and immigration .
with regard to this point , i suggest that you look more closely at which deadlines we are in fact discussing .
nice has the task of undertaking a preliminary evaluation of the work of the high level working group on asylum and immigration .
this is a deadline that was set at tampere for the approval of a legislative instrument which establishes common definitions , common incriminations and common punishments for trafficking in human beings , and specifically for trafficking in women and children for purposes of sexual exploitation .
i therefore think that we are indeed putting forward initiatives and i am counting on the support both of the council and parliament to be able to conclude these legislative procedures within the deadlines that have been fixed .
thank you very much , commissioner vitorino .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday , at 12 noon . 1998 discharge ( continuation ) the next item is the continuation of the joint debate on the 1998 discharge .
ladies and gentlemen , as you will be aware , this morning ' s joint debate on granting discharge to the commission was not closed , since we still had to hear commissioner schreyer ' s final speech .
mrs morgan asked me whether the commission was still prepared to answer questions on this .
of course the commission is willing to do so and i am in fact confident , chairman of the committee on budgetary control , that in this respect too , we will be able to find a way of completing the exchange of information in such a way that there are no disagreements or differences of opinion .
this is a demand that the committee on budgetary control has just put to parliament , the commission and of course the council .
on behalf of the commission , i would again like to thank you for this morning ' s debate and also for the constructive criticism , and i would like to reassure you once again that the commission will take steps - some of which it has already taken - to guarantee more effective implementation of the budget of the european union .
thank you very much , commissioner schreyer .
the debate is closed .
it was better because it was more rigorous , more transparent and more rational .
it was better because it established the promotion of employment as a factor to be taken into consideration when selecting potential projects .
the work under the conciliation procedure added further improvements to the life iii regulation and we can say quite simply that , although we lost on the issue of comitology , we managed to get our views across on the essential issues .
with regard to the budget for the period 2000-2004 , which was the main issue at stake , we would clearly have preferred to agree on an amount closer to eur 850 million - the sum proposed by the european parliament - than the eur 613 million set by the commission and the council .
nevertheless , as they say , politics is the art of the possible , and if we had not agreed , as we finally did in conciliation , on an amount of eur 640 million , we would have ended up bearing the political responsibility for leaving thousands of projects in limbo and without financial support for the year 2000 .
the concept of relationships with nature is changing radically in our own time .
with this in mind , the european union has pioneered legislation in the field of environmental protection and has also been a key partner in international negotiations and agreements on the global protection of the planet .
the transposition of european directives into national legislation has played and continues to play a crucial role in all our countries , particularly portugal .
the life programme is just one financial instrument at the service of the european union ' s environmental policies and of those of its neighbouring countries in the baltic , the mediterranean and in eastern europe .
having experienced many vicissitudes and a period of paralysis with regard to the projects financed by this programme , the portuguese presidency and the european parliament finally formalised an agreement specifically on a budgetary framework of eur 640 million for the period 2000-2004 .
i also wish to welcome the agreement reached by the portuguese presidency and the european parliament on the framework directive on water , an instrument that is crucial for the european union ' s environmental policy .
mr president , the european life programme is the key european union initiative to integrate environmental measures into the broad ambit of european union policies .
the union as a political entity has a moral and legal obligation to ensure that a clean environment is protected and promoted under article 130 of the maastricht treaty .
in fact between1992 and 1992 the life initiative cofinanced nearly 1600 projects with a total community contribution of approximately eur 2.1 billion .
i also welcome the fact that the member states have allocated an increase of eur 27 million for the new life programme for the next five years and that the overall budgetary allocation made to the life programme will be in the region of eur 640 million .
mr president , the european union ' s environmental policy never ceases to amaze me .
the life programme , with its eur 640 million budgetary allocation , is far from being a model of transparency , leading us to question the proper use of public funds .
in february i proposed - in vain - that the funds used in land purchase should be set aside for public structures , as in our view , public money should not be used as private real estate capital , even under the guise of environmental protection .
the commission also shares this view and in its clarification of the eligibility criteria regarding expenditure within the framework of the structural funds sem 2000 stated that , ' the purchase of land is the responsibility of a public institution or an organisation that is subject to public law ' .
i also put forward six other specific proposals that would be easy to implement , in order to limit local disputes and justify the proper use of public monies .
the original commission proposal dates back to december 1998 .
it will be used to set up the natura 2000 network - another measure that has your support - and it will promote the incorporation of environmental interests in land utilisation planning , as well as promote environmental projects in the mediterranean and baltic regions .
the programme extends over a number of years ( 2000 to 2004 ) , and the financial allocation was increased from eur 613 million to eur 640 million under the conciliation procedure .
in the course of the conciliation negotiations there were also discussions about the committees that are supporting the commission in the implementation of the programme , and on behalf of the commission , i would draw your attention at this point to the fact that , in our view , the provisions of the corresponding council decision were not applied correctly , which is why the commission duly submitted a statement to this effect at the end of the procedure .
this meeting is due to take place on 20 july .
the new interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament , the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and the improvement of the budgetary procedure , which was concluded on 6 may last , have revised our old ad hoc procedure .
we are in possession of the commission ' s draft budget , and our motion will contain advice for the council on its first reading of the budget .
one of our main priorities was , is , and remains support for the peace and stability process in the balkans .
in addition , as early as december last year , we drew up a joint declaration , together with the council , during our last second reading .
however we do not think that we should finance our aid to kosovo and the balkans simply by carrying out a multiannual redeployment of our traditional priorities in external policy , and making cutbacks in our cooperation with developing countries and in the aid we deliver to the poorest of the poor .
consequently , we are expecting the council to enter into constructive negotiations with us to this end , and hope to reach a conclusion before the council ' s first reading .
last year , parliament fought tooth and nail for heading 1b .
as far as the fisheries agreements are concerned , we are expecting that as in previous ad hoc procedures , the commission will submit updated , realistic figures before parliament ' s first reading that we will then be able to take into account .
we expect the council to take account of our deliberations and decisions in those of its own .
first of all , the european budget comes off worse compared to other major continents because there is less public funding available here compared to those other continents .
amendment no 20 concerns innovative measures .
the appropriation must be kept at the level decided at berlin .
the importance of innovation was stressed both at the lisbon and feira summits .
the commission and the member states should also simplify and speed up administration procedures relating to structural funds .
mr president , we in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy are enthusiastic supporters of the common foreign and security policy , and we are also supporters of these special envoys which , at the moment , are inscribed in the commission ' s budget .
for if the council definitely wants these appropriations to appear in the council ' s budget , there is , of course , the possibility of the council ' s , in return , entering into a type of inter-institutional agreement with ourselves here in parliament , whereby the council promises to give us the same information , control , inspection facilities etc as if the appropriations had appeared in the commission ' s budget .
it certainly is the case that , with the move to activity-based budgeting , we are moving away from the concept that everything that was previously in the budget has to be preserved for the future .
i want to reiterate our commitment in the research area .
i recognise that this is not a matter that is affected by the budget on this occasion , but we should not ignore the changes we are seeing in the energy sphere with save and altener .
the figures that we see are seeing for save , where there is a significant reduction in the budget for energy efficiency schemes , are a result of the budgetary process last year .
this includes developing markets for financial services , providing risk capital , but also giving special attention to female entrepreneurship , as has already been called for by the committee on economic and monetary affairs in the guidelines .
we wanted more money for employment and we wanted to gather more experience of similar projects over three years so as to be able to subsequently arrive at a legal basis .
hence there are , of course , no possible circumstances under which we would endorse the commission ' s decision on this , simply because , as a commission , you have run out of ideas at the moment for promoting innovative measures in the social fund .
it is equally unacceptable and completely incomprehensible that the commission wants to make drastic cutbacks of 32 % and 18 % respectively in the budget headings for the action plans against social exclusion and discrimination , even though social coherence in the european union is precisely what we are always calling for , and only this morning we again had an extensive debate on the anti-discrimination package .
mr president , the committee on fisheries has been calling for the strengthening of the common fisheries policy on an international level as well .
as draftsperson of the committee on fisheries , i would like to express my satisfaction with the committee on budgets ' support for our proposals on the international fishing organisations and agreements .
in an increasingly globalised world , the union must increase its presence in these organisations which regulate offshore fishing , for reasons of prestige , good management of resources and , above all , the defence of the interests of our industry and our workers .
my second point concerns the international agreements .
this is by far the european union ' s most important agreement in this area and our main priority : five hundred boats , thousands of fishermen out of work and many economically paralysed areas depend on its renewal .
mr president , first of all i would like to express my gratitude to the committee on budgets for their sound cooperation .
we are prepared to make do with reducing spending to the 2000 level and thus cancel out the cut-backs which the commission proposed in favour of financing kosovo .
this morning , we talked about the 1998 discharge .
as you will see just from these examples , what we need to know goes well beyond the discussion on financing the western balkans .
in fact , it would be a mistake for the european parliament to reduce the discussion of the 2001 budget to this one issue .
if you look at the haug report , parliament wants to find a solution .
we are actually looking for agreement with the council on the way to get a good budget by the end of this year .
it is pretty hard to get an agreement when the council just ignores article 20 of the interinstitutional agreement .
and that will be at the forefront of our discussions at the trialogue this week and in the conciliation on 20 july .
whatever the council votes on 20 july we will still be making that point in the autumn when it comes to our first reading .
from the very first trialogue of this year with the portuguese presidency , the one thing that was obvious to everyone is that we need an agreement between the three institutions on the funding for the western balkans .
the council 's position is about 200 million less than ours , which means that we will not get an agreement on that and unless we have an agreement there is going to be a problem in how we fund the needs in category 4 .
for an institution that tells us that what was agreed in berlin was set in concrete , i think the council has a bit of a cheek in moving large sums of money from the meda programme which they agreed 12 months ago and then lecturing us about what can and cannot be moved .
having said that , we are of course , prepared to listen to the council , to hear what their suggestions are and i look forward to our trialogue this week and the conciliation meeting on 20 july .
the report under discussion concerns parliament ' s provisional position on the budget in the conciliation talks that are to be held .
eur 1.9 billion has already been found for the programme ; of the remainder , eur 1.4 billion would be found by the reallocation of category 4 funds , and 1.8 billion by moving funds from the section of the budget dealing with agriculture .
in addition , the future needs of agriculture are hard to estimate , as the agenda 2000 reforms are only just starting and the wto talks are in their elementary stages .
the commission ' s proposal for the cards programme is explicit and our group supports it .
eu member states have to bear the responsibility for the reconstruction of the balkans , as most of them were keen supporters of the military action there , and many also took part in it .
this is stated in point 3 of mrs haug ' s report .
the council is responsible for the reconstruction of the balkans .
for the first time since the berlin agreement , negotiations will take place in the council before first reading regarding a possible review of the financial perspective .
my groups welcomes this development .
at the same time the reconstruction of kosovo , after the illegal war there , is being financed at the expense of other countries receiving aid , in a way that is improper and dishonest .
our group supports the former position expressed by parliament , according to which the council must agree to amend the financial perspectives , particularly with regard to category 4 .
furthermore , the granting of discharge must also concern a common foreign and security policy .
firstly , the budget with its eur 93 million in payment appropriations represents a 5 % increase , whereas national budgets are subject to greater austerity .
we are witnessing the continued , and wholly scandalous , misappropriation of eur 300 million of agricultural funds for the reconstruction of kosovo , as though the balkans formed part of the cap !
over the past 20 years , non-essential expenditure has increased from 5 % to more than 45 % of the total budget expenditure without any modification to the treaties .
in other words , the revolution that looks set to take place in european affairs over the coming ten years is not an institutional one but a budgetary and tax one .
mr president , budget 2001 must not be to the detriment of agriculture .
this will impinge on us all .
the principle of financing the poor at the expense of other poor people has no place in europe .
on the other hand , the implementation figures for programmes outside the european union are very poor and in some cases this is the fault of third countries and in others , the majority of cases , it is the fault of the commission .
what is clear is that the budgetary implementations do not match the effort made in recent years to introduce these programmes into the budget .
to sum up , i would like to say that terence wynn ' s position seems to me to be very coherent .
it is clear that nobody is managing to give a reliable estimate of what is needed in kosovo .
as the former mep , lord tomlinson , said , there is nothing more expensive than a meal amongst foreign affairs ministers : they are always ready to promise money without considering where it will come from .
i would like to remind you , ladies and gentlemen , that in order to topple pinochet , the european community spent eur 10 million .
our contribution to the campaign against pinochet in the referendum was eur 10 million .
we are simply dealing with a case of budgetary procedure in the field of non-obligatory expenditure and , therefore , the most that could be said would be that the council has not complied with article 20 of the interinstitutional agreement .
mr president , i am grateful for this opportunity to make some general comments about the 2001 budget .
in respect of the fisheries budget , i note that an increase of over 27 % is proposed in the funding of international agreements .
these are the southern agreements with third countries which enable eu vessels to fish in the waters of morocco , mauritania , argentina and elsewhere .
i must remind the house that these agreements currently cost eu taxpayers eur 269 million a year and are primarily of benefit to the fishing fleets of spain , portugal and france .
these southern agreements are always calculated on a cash-for-fish basis while northern agreements on the other hand are arranged on a reciprocal basis .
let us make sure the budget is for all eu citizens and not just for the southern eu member states .
to reiterate the point once again , the commission proposal provides for an increase of 5 % in the payment appropriations , and an increase of 3.9 % in the commitment appropriations .
it was not easy to achieve this outcome because the additional requirements for the stability pact had to be accommodated and agenda 2000 involved adopting a very high growth rate in respect of agricultural policy .
this is where the council , unlike the commission , is proposing a reduced package of eur 400 million in commitment appropriations .
the commission considers this proposal to be lacking in the necessary political foresight , in view of the tasks we have before us on the external policy front .
the commission has pointed out that aid for bosnia is being cut , for example , and that albania and montenegro have not exactly been generously provided for in terms of appropriations , on the contrary , only one commitment is being honoured in our view .
there is another point i would like to make on behalf of the commission , and it concerns the field of external policy .
we have proposed that eur 30 million be earmarked in the 2001 budget for the rapid reaction fund , which is used for non-military crisis prevention .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
article 21 of the treaty on european union provides that the presidency shall consult the european parliament on key issues and fundamental decisions with regard to the common foreign and security policy , and ensure that account is duly taken of the views of the european parliament .
this is particularly true as regards recent developments in common foreign and security policy as a result of the feira european council and with a view to the one in nice .
as regards the flexibility of the second pillar , perhaps you will allow the presidency to take the intergovernmental conference in hand , which it will do following the ' general affairs council ' next monday , 10 july .
question no 2 by ( h-0519 / 00 ) : subject : transport of water from france to spain and the sustainable management of water resources france is understood to be intending to launch an aqueduct scheme for transporting water from the rhone to barcelona , with the participation of the lyonnaise water company .
the water is apparently intended to be used to develop irrigated intensive farming in catalonia .
it was adopted recently through a conciliation procedure on 29 june 2000 .
it sets out the basic principles for a sustainable water policy in the european union based on the principles enshrined in the treaty , for example those relating to precautionary , preventative and corrective action by according priority to the source of the threats to the environment , as well as the polluter-pays principle .
the project is designed to ensure that these water sources are maintained in good condition through a series of measures that member states are to implement according to a specific timetable .
with regard to her other comments , i should again like to reiterate my final remarks when i said that we must ensure that all initiatives of this type are subject to a socio-economic and environmental assessment as a matter of course .
mr president-in-office of the council , there have been fears expressed repeatedly in connection with the reading of the framework directive on water , that it could be possible later on in the eu to transport water from one member state to another against the wishes of the first country .
the regulation should also aim at technological neutrality , with the rules that govern communication services being as far as possible independent of the technology implemented to provide these services .
the key element in this commitment is the dialogue that the european union has established with china in relation to human rights .
in spite of some progress achieved in improving the legal system with regard to economic and social rights , little progress has been achieved on the ground , particularly in the area of civil and political rights .
it has been agreed that the european union would continue to publicly express its concerns on the human rights situation in china and raise such matters in meetings with china at all levels .
in addition , the council has agreed that the european union will adopt a firm stance with regard to the motion for a resolution on human rights in china , presented by the united states at the 56th session of the united nations human rights commission .
should the motion for a resolution be put to the vote , the council has agreed that the member states that are part of this commission would vote in favour of it .
it is very good to welcome a former colleague into a new elevated office but let me remind you mr moscovici , of the frustration which we experienced as parliamentarians trying to question the council .
i believe the response of the eu in geneva was appalling .
furthermore , i am from a country which suffered an unexpected defeat , like other members present .
question no 5 by ioannis souladakis ( h-0536 / 00 ) : subject : improvement in the export capacities of the countries of south-eastern europe the stability pact for south-eastern europe is a political choice made by the european union to which it has given a very high priority .
the european union supports the idea that the deepening of international trade should , in the long term , replace the dependence on foreign aid and that trade integration should constitute one of the main facets of greater integration in the longer term for the countries of south-eastern europe in the euro-atlantic structures .
the stability pact for south-eastern europe is generally designed to help the countries of the region attain stability and economic prosperity .
the importance of liberalising and facilitating trade between the countries of the region , and also between these countries and the european union , was highlighted , by both donors and recipients , at the regional conference on pact funding held in brussels at the end of march this year .
in all areas covered by the stability pact , and therefore also in the economic and trade areas , reciprocal commitments between donors and recipients remain the key to the stability pact ' s success .
the commitment expressed by the countries of the region to implement reforms and generate the right climate for sustainable economic progress lies at the very heart of the pact .
in other words , what policies will strengthen production in these regions without the european union 's having to pay out money which , due in part to internal problems , it is having trouble finding anyway .
resolution 1284 , adopted on 17 december 1999 , is aimed at recommencing un inspections and , at the same time , improve the so-called " oil for food " programme " , and finally lifting the sanctions against iraq .
the european union urges the iraqi government to cooperate fully with the un and its supporting bodies .
the council notes that since 1998 no checks have been carried out to see whether iraq is in fact complying with the wholly relevant security council resolutions , in particular resolution 687 .
however , as the panel of experts presided by ambassador amorim noted in april 1999 , the iraqi population would not have suffered such privations had the measures taken in 1991 by the security council not had to have been extended .
the council noted that the united nations security council , in its resolution 1302 , invited the un secretary general to appoint independent experts to draw up an in-depth study on the humanitarian situation in iraq .
i asked the question because there is a certain sensitivity in france to this issue .
i have listened to the president-in-office 's formal reply ; however , we all know full well that the situation in iraq is connected with the arbitrary policy imposed by the united states .
according to the statistics , the number of people who have lost their life in iraq since 1990 , as a result of the sanctions , now totals 1 309 153 .
this is not the time to hold a debate on relations between the council and parliament with regard to questions , since that would take up time allotted to question time .
in any event , this debate can be held in the conference of presidents , which deals with these relations and any incidents which may occur .
to come back to the question raised , article 17 of the treaty on european union lays down that union policy under this article does not impact on the specific nature of the security and defence policy of some member states , including non-allied member states .
similarly , the policy observes the obligations of the north atlantic treaty with regard to those member states who consider that their common defence is provided within the framework of nato , and it is compatible with the common security and defence policy established within this framework .
after amsterdam , the european union undertook a process aimed at enabling it to take all of the measures needed to play a role in the areas of conflict prevention and crisis management , measures that are defined in the treaty on european union and known as the petersburg tasks , without prejudice to the position of the member states as regards their membership or non-membership of nato or the weu .
question no 8 by ( h-0545 / 00 ) : subject : priorities of the french presidency as regards the advancement of women what specific measures will the french presidency be putting forward as its priorities for the advancement of women in europe ?
mrs nicole pery , my colleague and secretary of state for women ' s rights , will outline next week the french presidency ' s programme in this area to your committee responsible .
my intention here is to simply give a few brief details .
firstly , the commission has just sent the council a communication entitled ' towards a community framework strategy for sexual equality ' , also a proposal for a council decision on a support programme for the community strategy on sexual equality , a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and council modifying directive 67 / 207 / eec on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards - and this is crucial - access to jobs , training and vocational training and working conditions .
the french presidency , i stress , has already timetabled the presentation of these commission texts .
as regards the proposal for a decision relating to a programme on the basis of article 13 of the treaty and the fact that the programme is due to start on 1 january 2001 , the aim of the presidency is to adopt it during the ' employment and social welfare ' council on 28 november .
with regard to the proposal for a directive , the french presidency shall endeavour to make as much progress as possible .
apart from these legislative texts , the council , as in previous years , shall also to consider the implementation of the beijing action plan by the member states .
what is more , the french presidency will organise two events in relation to this : a ministerial conference on 27 october in paris that will focus on three issues - women and decision-making , reconciling family life and professional life and mainstreaming - as well as a symposium on equality in the workplace on 24 november in paris that will centre on discrimination in recruitment and the difficulties of returning to work .
you have demonstrated this in your reply .
question no 9 by ( h-0552 / 00 ) : subject : council 's views on the pelinka case in austria on 1 may 1999 , professor anton pelinka commented on the italian television channel rai on previous statements made by the freedom party 's jorg haider in connection with national socialism .
neither is it able to pass judgement on the way a legal institution is run in one of the member states .
mr president , i would thank the french presidency for its succinct answer .
fourteen member states are planning to ask experts from the council of europe to investigate certain states of affairs in austria .
my first question concerns whether the french presidency considers that this request for an investigation should also apply to the pelinka case , which would be only reasonable .
my second question concerns articles 6 and 7 of the treaty , concerning fundamental rights .
there are so-called rules of transmission between parliament and the council , which have prevented these questions from arriving today .
i sincerely hope that , with or without translation , things will be sorted out for future part-sessions .
with regard to the other points you raised , as you have understood , the french presidency intends to observe the measures that have already been decided on by the fourteen .
what is more , i repeat , these measures are of a strictly bilateral nature and do not impact on the fact that austria is a member of the european union , with access to all of its institutions and participating in all of its bodies and , throughout our presidency , will be treated as such .
parliament will consider this issue , but today we are not going to discuss it further , if the members agree .
question no 11 by maj britt theorin ( h-0554 / 00 ) : subject : international criminal court the commission , and particularly the commissioner for humanitarian aid , played an important role in the setting-up of the new , permanent international criminal court ( icc ) in june 1998 .
however , to become a reality , the rome statute must be ratified by 60 states .
i certainly think the eu ought to be leading the way in creating an international legal system and , when the national legal systems do not function , the international community must be ready to take action against the worst offenders .
question no 12 by ( h-0556 / 00 ) : subject : role of the diamond trade in african wars it is a known fact that the violence in both sierra leone and the great lakes region is linked to the monopolies on local mineral deposits and the struggles to gain control of those monopolies .
i believe that the problem relating to the trafficking in diamonds , which has cost , and is costing , many lives , deserves much more decisive and firm attention from the council .
in the case of sierra leone , great britain had supported the embargo , and france as well , to a certain extent .
the council could promote a generalised embargo of all diamonds originating in africa and , above all , the control of certificates .
mr president-in-office of the council , question no 13 is one of six questions which the council will not reply to today because of procedural problems .
as the author is not present , question no 14 lapses .
question no 16 by ( h-0565 / 00 ) : subject : violations of cypriot airspace by turkish fighter-planes cyprus , a country which is due to join the eu within the next few years , is continuously subjected to turkish aggression .
apart from the fact that the turkish army has occupied 37 % of cypriot territory for 26 consecutive years , turkey - a candidate for eu membership - disputes the island 's status as an independent state on an almost daily basis .
the council values the principle of sovereignty highly , and in this case can only reiterate its commitment to resolution 353 of 20 july 1974 of the united nations security council as well as resolution 3212 of the united nations general assembly of 1 november 1974 which requested all states to respect the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus .
the council , which supports the efforts of the united nations secretary general , expects turkey , and other countries , to contribute to the success of these negotiations in order to achieve a just and lasting resolution to the cypriot question .
encouraged by tolerance and compliance on the part of europe and the united states , turkey engaged the other day in a new act of aggressive provocation which could well have been the cause of war between two equally powerful countries .
minister , i understand your unwillingness to give a clear , spontaneous reaction to turkey 's intolerable conduct in cyprus .
your predecessors were equally unwilling to condemn turkey 's conduct in cyprus outright and , i fear , your successors will take the same approach , now that the american- , but not just the american-inspired formula of two sets of rules for and two attitudes towards turkey has been adopted , together with the convenient method of taking refuge in pretexts such as the supposedly clear prospect of settling the cyprus question , which has lasted 26 years now , and the supposedly concomitant need to appease the puppet of ankara , mr denktash .
question no 17 by ( h-0569 / 00 ) : subject : milosevic over the last few days , a number of media have carried reports that one member state of the european union is currently acting as a mediator in an effort to find a ' way out ' from the serious situation in serbia .
since the time allotted to questions to the council has elapsed .
the council ' s budget is eur 6.635 million .
they may be around 45 at first , but that number may later grow to 60 or even 90 .
the draft supplementary and amending budget for the european parliament contains an appropriation of eur 15 million for an additional prepayment for office space in brussels .
this will leave a margin in the financial perspectives of eur 69.1 million .
the committee on budgets transferred eur 38 million of unused funds this year by means of a c6 / 2000 to fund this office space , the spinelli building .
as it is very likely that a considerable portion of the appropriations set aside for members ' regulations , for example , ( which amount to eur 60 million ) , will remain unspent , and as more than half the year has now gone by , this ceiling may be reviewed at the end of the year .
the council ' s budget is interesting , as there are appropriations in it for the first time for a common security and defence policy .
article 28 of the treaty is unclear , particularly regarding a common security , defence and military policy .
this is firstly because during the trialogue , we all agreed that the budget presented should not be limited to merely returning the balances to the member states , but should also include expenditure and constitute a genuine supplementary and amending budget .
in the second place , we have made several decisions that can be viewed in a positive light .
we therefore decided to fund it using the margin which totals 21 million in this heading .
we have had a first reading in the council , this is our first reading , and we should very much like to conclude matters on the basis of this first reading .
in other words , we hope that the council ' s second reading that takes place on 20 july will take up our first reading , if not we shall have to proceed to a second reading .
what is more , i should like to stress another important point in that if we proceed to a second reading , in order to adhere to the strict timetables set , we should have to attend a session in august in order to vote on this sab at second reading , which is obviously out of the question .
it has always been the rule in parliament and the other institutions that august is excluded from the timetables set .
mr president , commissioner , fellow members , it may only be july , but today , the european union and the european parliament come to the member states bearing gifts in the form of a supplementary budget refunding eur 3.2 billion to their original owners .
that was why i voted passionately in favour of this transfer of funds , so that these technical problems can be solved once and for all and nothing more can stand in the way of a successful european security and defence policy .
however , we must find this 20 million by squeezing the margin dry .
mr president , the rapporteur has already explained the sab is asking to approve two separate sums of money .
i would like to raise three issues about this .
secondly , i understand there is a gentlemen 's agreement according to which the european parliament and the council agreed not to interfere with each other 's budget .
thirdly , i am not satisfied with the use of the sab as an instrument for this because these extra needs were foreseen prior to the conclusion of the budgetary process last year and should have been incorporated in this year 's budget .
in accordance with the spirit of the gentlemen 's agreement , i will not comment on the need for 45 military personnel in the building .
the point i wish to raise here is that council must apply the same sort of budgetary rigour to its administrative expenditure as it expects of other institutions .
and i would like some reassurance in the future that this expenditure will be spent in the most efficient and economic way possible .
on parliament 's request for the extra 15 million for the additional advance payment for the new building in brussels , although it can be identified as a prudent step which will allow considerable savings in the future , i am concerned about the messages that this may convey .
the first proposed amending budget relates to the commission 's budget .
while the extra 15 million granted by parliament is to be used to pay off the buildings early , thereby saving interest in the future , the extra council expenditure will give rise to further expenditure in the future because other buildings will be rented in brussels to house sectors such as the security policy .
the funding for the unmik high representative in kosovo and bosnia has been amended and eur 11 million will now be provided .
thank you , commissioner .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
first , the union citizens ' right to freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services has so far only been partially implemented .
the treaty contains rules on transparency and clarity in this respect but it also allows the member states to make their own decision here .
we note that , in the countries in which regulators have been introduced , not only large consumers , but also medium-sized and small consumers can take better part in the market and the conditions for using the grid are clearer .
commissioner , madam vice-president , i have two comments to make on this .
that is an important point in this process .
we hope to discuss with the commission in committee exactly how imports of gas and electricity from the central and eastern european countries are to be dealt with , because we do not want to damage our own gas and electricity market in europe by accepting different safety standards or the wrong competition terms .
finally , in the case of electricity , transmission system operators have formed an association and it was with the help of this association that results were achieved in florence .
since the first directive on its liberalisation was adopted in 1996 , and the second in 1998 , there has been a significant fall in prices , especially in the countries in which those directives have been most strictly applied .
the two directives were very carefully calculated to ensure that there would not be huge and sudden job losses - approximately 250,000 jobs have been lost in this sector , with more to come - and secondly to allow those member states which had invested heavily in , for example , nuclear energy to do some strategic planning and not leave them with too much in the way of stranded costs .
those which delayed were wrong , especially those which at the same time took advantage of the opening of markets elsewhere and we have evidence that this also applies to countries outside the european union .
i have said that the job losses were very considerable .
the question of public service obligations is mentioned several times in the report .
the socialist group has put forward an amendment asking for a framework directive ensuring that in sectors like energy services of general interest are protected .
mr president , commissioner , i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the great care he has taken over this report .
finally , i would like to emphasise that our proposal on laying down a detailed schedule , in the course of which clearly defined goals would need to be accomplished , is important if we are eventually to achieve gradual , yet full , liberalisation of the energy market .
i would also like to emphasise that the concept of public service and of the public good must go hand-in-hand with liberalization .
i am referring to social and environmental concerns which this parliament has always supported but which are not yet sufficiently articulated in the energy sector with reference to the single market .
it is particularly regrettable that liberalization has gone hand-in-hand with a negative impact on energy saving .
i have discussed this with commissioner monti .
he is a powerful commissioner and even he is unwilling to tackle some of the member states head on in this regard .
mr president , this report again demonstrates that liberalisation , the free market and competition are currently seen as the universal panacea to nearly every economic and other problem .
however , the fact that the prices of some other forms of energy have spiralled is passed over in modest silence .
it is hard to over-estimate the importance of this process to the competitiveness of our european economies in the widest sense .
i know that in the short term it may be difficult to prove that but i am quite sure that in the long term this is a vital part of making our economies competitive in the wider world .
i also believe that it is very important for us to distinguish between the processes of market efficiency that liberalization implies and other policy objectives that we may wish to achieve , such as the question of universal supply , such as the aims to reduce co2 and it is very important to keep those two distinct and separate .
personally , when i think in terms of ' energy ' i think of security of supply in the long term , the guarantee of public service missions and the contribution to sustainable and environmentally friendly development .
mr mombaur , unlike you , i do not have blind and absolute confidence in market mechanisms .
this is because , and this is something i should like to stress , public service in energy is a factor in social cohesion , the fight against exclusion , balanced regional development , respect for the environment , security and lastly a prerequisite for national and european independence .
experience in other areas such as telecom shows that member states respond better to this incentive and i hope that the commission will elaborate a specific timetable for liberalization in the months to come .
mr president , the report on the commission ' s second report to the council and the european parliament on progress in liberalising energy markets only takes account of two aspects , namely competition and the deepening of the internal energy market .
in our view , only genuine public and democratic regulation would make it possible to rationalise both the production and use of energy while ensuring respect for the environment and basic equalisation .
this would constitute the first step towards a european public service that met the needs of today ' s users and employees .
when you talk with them about liberalisation , they say , ' we are happy to have liberalisation , but it should be the same for everyone in europe . ' that is just the problem with this issue .
in future work on liberalising the energy market , we shall make sure that energy policy as a whole is involved .
i am thinking here of consumers , the environment , competitiveness , renewable energy sources and the employees .
the commission must take care that the energy market is opened up in a genuine sense and in a spirit of fair play .
the commission must reconsider its position .
hydroelectric power in the nordic countries is an environmentally friendly and natural energy source that can often be produced at a competitive price , as is the case at present , thanks to a good water supply .
mr president , i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on an excellent report .
the liberalisation of energy markets is an essential factor in the development of the economy .
the opening up of the market will lead to reorganisation on a european scale with common rules for all the countries .
i hope that the commission will submit comprehensive proposals to overcome the existing barriers to intracommunity trade and ad hoc measures to deal with the member states which do not apply the directives .
we need to speed up the process of liberalisation in the energy and gas sectors by harmonising the member states ' energy policies .
to support the liberalisation process it will be necessary to introduce a benchmarking process , as we have done in other sectors , with the publishing of a commission half-yearly report on the final price of european union gas and electricity .
i would support the rapporteur in stressing that competition does not prevent member states from imposing public service obligations in the general interest on operators .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mr mombaur ' s report on the state of liberalisation of the energy , electricity and gas markets has the merit of summarising the various commission communications on the issue .
first , the treaties provide for the creation of an internal market in the energy sector , which must be accomplished .
second , the achievement of this aim undoubtedly involves opening up the markets to competition , the process of liberalisation and division into separate activities relating to energy transmission , production and distribution .
the european directive on electricity was therefore adopted rather late by my country and only in its most basic form .
however , the benefits have outweighed the problems encountered .
in any event , the progress made so far - which is very considerable - still seems to me to be insufficient .
we must not create fifteen separate liberalised markets , but one single european liberalised market .
both of these reflect an original institutional approach , since representatives of parliament participate in them .
there is a physical aspect , the capacity for interconnection , which must also be developed and which currently lead to limitations in the development of this single market , both in the electrical sector and in the gas sector .
this aspect will be included in the initiatives which i propose to present to the council and parliament at the end of this year , so that they may be ready in the spring , for the european council , in order to provide more impetus for liberalisation in the areas i have mentioned .
i also wish to say that the aspects relating to safety standards must also be developed soon and i am going to propose to parliament and the council that we hold a debate , not on the nuclear sector , nor on the coal or renewable energy sector , but on the guarantees of the european union ' s energy supply as a whole , when we will be able to consider the different sources of energy and the problems relating to each of them , because nothing is free , everything has its price , its pros and cons .
this is an extremely important european technology , with industrial possibilities beyond our european borders , which we must continue to support .
the directive excludes hydroelectricity from the consideration of subsidies , which means that it is not sustainable .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
the council common position for adopting a european parliament and council directive amending directive 95 / 18 / ec on the licensing of railway undertakings [ 5387 / 1 / 2000 - c5-0176 / 2000 - 1998 / 0266 ( cod ) ] ; ii .
mr president , madam vice-president , ladies and gentlemen , the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism proposes that plenary at last gradually but properly liberalise the railway market , with liberalisation to be completed by the year 2010 .
but parliament will defend the view in the codecision procedure that the positions taken do not go far enough in order to safeguard the long-term future of the railways .
the council wants to move one small step at a time .
we feel that railway undertakings should have access to the entire network of the fifteen member states in five years ' time , for both international and national freight traffic , and by 2010 for international and national passenger traffic .
in order to ensure that railway undertakings in all member states also have real access to local networks in other member states , we feel that there must be a strict , compulsory division between the management of individual networks and the provision of transport services by individual national railway undertakings .
experience over the past 40 years shows that , if infrastructure and operations are not separated , the national railway undertaking always reserves the best lines for itself , thereby denying other railway undertakings effective , non-discriminatory access .
if we adopt the recommendation by the committee on transport by a large majority , we will have a real chance of reaching a compromise with the council during the conciliation procedure which is acceptable to both the council and parliament , which goes beyond the common positions and which enables a real move to be made towards liberalising the railway sector , because we all want to strengthen the railways .
our , or my proposal is that the commission should present a report in a few years ' time and report to parliament on whether or not the principles of free , transparent competition have been contradicted and then we can take another decision .
as to whether passenger traffic between stuttgart and munich should be liberalised : this is a matter which , in my view , should be decided by the german government or the regional government in bavaria and not necessarily at european level .
we , the two rapporteurs , and all the groups in the house are willing to reach a compromise .
the first conclusion concerns the liberalisation of the railways .
the council needs to take serious account of parliament 's views .
mr president , for the railways the status quo is really not an option .
railways in europe are in terminal decline , not least in the rail freight sector .
that is why i broadly support the council position which represents a small but important step towards railway liberalisation .
we have to take into account national differences and indeed , social and employment concerns .
broadly , the council position has struck the right balance on the charging , licensing , access and separation issues .
secondly , we hope that the deletion of article 12 , led by the liberals in committee , which could deprive citizens and consumers of network benefits and deprive disabled people of access , can be reinserted into the text .
in my opinion , we need to go further than the council stated in its common position .
we must also take the next steps , namely implement full liberalisation with regard to the transport of goods by 2005 and take the same step for the transport of passengers nationally and internationally in the longer term , this time by 2010 , a deadline which is ten years away .
secondly , who can apply for a licence ?
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i have to admit that within my group there are two arguments being disputed in relation to the community railways .
in my view , the present state of the railways in the various member states does not make it viable to open them up to competition .
they are all in need of considerable modernisation in order to offer identical conditions of competition .
the disaster in great britain is still fresh in our minds and continues to warrant examination of rail safety requirements .
the compromise reached on 10 december by the transport council marked a step in the right direction .
mr president , rail transport is very important in terms of citizens ' mobility , the development of trade within europe and in terms of the environment and regional planning .
the european parliament has already paved the way for the liberalisation of international freight transport at its first reading , by granting authorised applicants track access rights .
it would also mean the complete opening up of international and national freight transport and , by 2010 , of passenger transport .
if the proposals from this second reading are adopted , they would be considered as a real provocation by all involved in the sector .
mr president , commissioner , the council ' s common positions within the framework of the railway package are not so much unexpected as they are disappointing in part .
finally , this sector would also benefit from transparency and decisiveness .
mr president , i understand the ideal contained in this report to complete the internal market in the railway sector , thereby allowing freight transport by rail to compete successfully with freight transportation by road .
this is necessary for the long-term survival of the european railway sector and all member states would be in agreement with this goal .
it is our task to reach agreement on how best to achieve this , bearing in mind the difficulties involved for some member states .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the european transport situation can be summed up using several pertinent figures .
between 1990 and 1997 the volume of transport of goods increased by 21 % whilst over the same period the proportion of freight transported by rail dropped by 7 % .
during the same period , passenger transport increased by 15 % and rail transport by only 3 % .
on the other hand , it is wholly unacceptable and , what is more , contradicts parliament ' s first reading , for us to take advantage of this second reading - as the jarzembowski report suggests - to announce measures to open up all networks to competition and others designed for the widespread privatisation of such networks at national and local level , as that stems from a dogma , an untested belief in the superiority of a market model that has clearly demonstrated its limitations in the united kingdom .
everyone here is aware that rail integration in europe cannot be reduced to a theological debate on the comparative merits of controlled liberalisation and uncontrolled privatisation .
railways , which only receive 25 % of the investment allocated to transport infrastructure in europe , as opposed to the 65 % allocated to roads , are in need of substantial investment in order to enhance interoperability , reduce bottlenecks , extend networks and integrated transport systems , etc .
the united kingdom has demonstrated to what extent privatisation can represent a step backwards .
in any liberalisation process it is very important to ensure that certain standards are maintained , for example those relating to the safety of both workers and consumers .
at the same time we need to prevent artificial barriers being put in the way of the opening up of markets .
we are all aware that many european countries were not able to take part in the industrial revolution of the 19th century at the right time , precisely because they lacked adequate rail connections .
rail networks must therefore continue to provide a guaranteed public service in all europe ' s regions , particularly the more remote ones .
this attack is mainly aimed at postal services , rail and the energy sector , companies which have the potential to demonstrate that we can organise our economy in a more democratic , environmentally-friendly and less profit-oriented manner .
the rapporteur considers the rail industry as an irritating state monopoly with difficult and demanding trade unions in tow .
instead of focusing his attention on stepping up cooperation between the existing railway companies and enhancing the democratic say over these companies , so that benefits of the rail industry can be better enjoyed on a european scale and liabilities can be eliminated more effectively , he puts all his hope in competition and liberalisation .
this company was established in 1939 and is an amalgamation of old private railway companies which operated inefficiently .
in percentage terms , the train has lost a considerable share in the transport market and it is difficult to detect any movement within european rail .
due to a lack of competition as a result of excessive protectionist behaviour on the part of the member states , the train has been relegated to the second division in this century too .
safety takes absolute priority and cannot be monitored by the transport companies themselves .
a second key element is the opening up of the railway infrastructure or , in other words , a liberalisation of the market , which is different from privatisation .
only when railway networks open up once and for all will railway undertakings and their employees have a chance .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , without doubt , the european railways need reviving and that is precisely what the legislative package under discussion is attempting to do .
of course we are on the right track and of course we understand the problems facing certain member states in directly , or almost directly adopting all the new measures proposed .
mr president , commissioner , fellow members , when you receive a lot of letters from people you do not know , it may be for one of two reasons .
our present railway system is a far cry from what we desperately need in europe , namely an efficient system which is also an acceptable system .
telecommunications traffic has demonstrated that , the electricity sector and numerous other sectors besides have demonstrated that .
mr president , commissioner , honourable members , the overall objective of the railway package under discussion here today is fast liberalisation of the european railways .
as you know , we in the ppe are calling for this in all areas needed to complete the single market , wherever healthy competition can replace hand-me-down monopolies .
i am not mathematically gifted , but i see a dramatic difference in favour of road transport , whose share is more than 95 % .
i am delighted that parliament is standing firmly by its convictions in this area , especially with regard to the full realisation of a railway transport market .
i would like to say that what is clear to most of us is that things cannot continue as they are : with closed public systems , which are national , confined within national borders , which are leading to a situation where the railway , day after day , is losing its share of the market in goods transport and in the transportation of persons as well , with the exception of a very specific form of transport , that is , high speed trains and suburban trains .
i would like to say that next year i am prepared to present an additional step , a different initiative , which may be accepted or rejected , both by the council or by parliament , when the time comes , and modified in its various fields , and which will also deal with certain aspects , at least with regard to the transportation of persons or , possibly , the transport of goods internally within the different countries , but which will be separate from the current package , on which we have reached a fundamental compromise - i insist - with the council .
before thanking the two rapporteurs on their work once again , which i know has been very complex - i fully appreciate this - but which i believe has been very important , and before commenting on all the amendments one by one , i would ask the rapporteurs and parliament as a whole for a degree of flexibility , so that in the end we may achieve a conciliation - since i fear that we will have to go to conciliation , the way things are going - which will allow us to move forward with this package which has a key role to play in the future of the railway .
turning specifically to each of the reports , after these general comments , and perhaps in order to clarify and not to prolong this debate any further , i would like to refer to amendments relating to the directive amending directive 91 / 440 / eec , whose rapporteur is mr jarzembowski .
on the other hand , i must reject - although i insist that i agree fully with many of them , but cannot accept them - amendments nos 1 , 2 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 10 , 12 , 15 , 16 , 18 , 19 , 22 , 23 , 25 , 26 and 27 .
amendments nos 6 , 8 , 9 and 11 , which propose the separation of the operators of infrastructures from the providers of services , clarify the text enormously .
i would like to say that , although i would perhaps have preferred other proposals , the commission accepts amendments nos 4 , 6 , 8 , 12 , 13 , 15 , 16 , 19 and 20 ; but we cannot accept amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 14 , 17 , 21 , 22 and 23 .
mr president , i would once again like to thank the two rapporteurs for their work and ask for flexibility , from them and from parliament , so that in the end we may achieve a result , which must also be supplemented by the other directive , which involves the interoperability of the systems themselves , which would be a great step forward .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
what we are talking about here is , as it were , a ceterum censeo , which needs to be the subject of debate here in the house for all directives .
the committee on legal affairs therefore sets great store by the following conclusion : first , that specialists should also keep up with general practice while training as specialists .
differential diagnostics continue to change , which is why specialist training must also include general practice .
secondly : we are calling , by a large majority , for specialist training to be increased from at least two to at least three years in order to take account of a broad trend within the european union .
two other amendments have been proposed concerning irish architects .
the ppe-de group - my group - intends to withdraw its amendment here .
the mechanics needed to achieve this change are very extensive , as can be seen from even the most cursory examination of lord cockfield 's 1992 programme , one of the most revolutionary , yet on the face of it unexciting programmes of the post-war world .
within that framework there is clearly a choice of instruments for putting the single market in place which can be described as the choice between harmonization and mutual recognition .
in my view systems of mutual recognition are more attractive .
the insensitive imposition of harmonization has caused untold political damage to the european political enterprise and had the single market been based more on mutual recognition and less on harmonization europe 's political condition would be much less febrile than it is today .
finally , and more generally , i would like to reiterate the rapporteur 's general conclusion that this is all far too difficult and complicated for anyone other than an expert or a lawyer and every effort must be made to simplify the law and make it more user-friendly so that the single market is understood by all our citizens .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , anyone who takes europe seriously wants to provide a good future for young people in the european union .
this includes , most importantly , ensuring that young people can develop their skills and talent in any place of their choice in any country in the union , irrespective of where they are from and where they trained .
anyone who has learned something at one end of the union should be able to pursue his or her career in a country in the middle or at the other end of the union .
thanks to the excellent work by the rapporteur , mr wieland , the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has had no trouble highlighting a few important points in the directive before us today .
thank you for listening .
mr president , my task is also on behalf of my group , to welcome amendments nos 1 to 11 and the spirit in which they were moved by my friend , mr wieland .
these are important points although they are not controversial among us .
it is also important as a purely linguistic matter to make sure that gleichwertig is translated as " equivalent " and its equivalent words in other european languages .
i conclude by taking up the point that nothing is more important than that the laws of the european union should be understandable to its citizens .
however , at the end of the day , the only people to pay the price for this situation are the citizens , especially young people who may well have invested time and energy in the certainty of obtaining results and official recognition and feel betrayed by the institutions .
and the situation is all the more serious if we consider the unemployment levels in europe .
i belong to the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport which , once again , has not been asked to speak on an issue which not only involves legal questions , but should also be subject to consensus in other respects .
the complexity which exists in europe in relation to the recognition of qualifications gives rise to documents such as this , which , despite the efforts of parliament and the commission itself , is a real ' collage ' .
we talk of the europe of research and a europe of knowledge and then we do not recognise , out of pure fear or pure vested interests , anything that people do outside of their own countries .
therefore , i wish now to ask that we question this directive , so that the recognition of the medical qualifications may be extended to many other qualifications , because it seems to me to be truly unjust that this is not the case , and that a country is unable to pass on what it knows to another country .
therefore , as representative of the culture committee in this case , i ask that this recognition be extended and that the road be opened to greater recognition of equivalence .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i generally welcome any measure or any directive to improve the mutual recognition of professional or academic qualifications .
the eu treaty clearly regulates the freedom of movement and the freedom to establish of people in the eu .
procedures for recognising diplomas acquired in third countries must also be simplified .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , this evening i should simply like to welcome the initiative aimed at simplifying and clarifying the directives relating to the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications .
this is the case for amendments nos 4 , 5 , 6 and 11 , amendments which the commission welcomes .
moreover , the commission has taken note of the requests made in amendments nos 1 and 2 to codify the directive on " recognition of professional qualifications " and to re-examine the problem of recognition of formal qualifications acquired in third countries .
regarding medical training , which forms the subject of amendments nos 3 and 7 to 10 , the commission shares parliament ' s view that on the one hand , this is a matter of great importance which requires further attention but on the other hand , these amendments only contain a few isolated proposals which require a more general analysis before they can be examined and approved .
the council and commission have already explained why this amendment cannot be adopted , namely because this issue is a purely internal affair .
this concludes my response .
i thank you for the opportunity you have given me to expand on this matter .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.40 p.m. )
the minutes state , on page 14 , in the greek version at least : " question 16 by mr iarinos : violations of cypriot airspace by turkish fighter-planes .
mr zacharakis , we will not be holding the political debate on this issue here .
mr president , i wish to raise once again the point i raised on monday and again yesterday with regard to mr helmer 's comments in this house .
mr president , i wanted to bring up an issue which should be of great concern to this parliament , and in particular to members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on budgetary control .
a serious abuse of european law and the statute of the european investment bank is taking place in my own country .
the situation in ireland is quite contrary to this principle .
the irish government have , in contravention of the law , nominated a person who not only has no experience of economic or financial affairs , but is furthermore a disgraced supreme court judge who was forced to resign before he was impeached by the irish parliament .
this is an extremely important matter for this parliament , which is concerned because the european union provides guarantee funds to the eib .
parliament must take notice of this , because if we allow member states to contravene the law in this way it has serious implications for the european union as a whole .
i would ask the president if he could instruct the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on budgetary control to look into this issue , because it should be dealt with very quickly .
it could set a very bad precedent for the future for other member states and for nominations to this body .
mr president , i would like to put a question to parliament .
these fires represent a considerable hazard , damaging the forest stand and the environment throughout the european union , but , most importantly , the economic effect on our endeavours to boost employment in the tourism industry in all the countries of the mediterranean area will be extremely serious .
during this period the euro system , that is the 11 national central banks and the ecb , had to prove its ability to implement the conceptual framework that had been thoroughly prepared during the previous years .
looking back , these challenges have been met from both a policy and an operational point of view .
therefore i have great pleasure today in presenting the second annual report of the ecb .
it gives an account of the activities of the euro system during 1999 and at the beginning of this year .
in addition to this regular dialogue , other members of the executive board of the ecb have attended committee meetings on several occasions in order to present a report drawn up under the responsibility of the ecb and to participate in exchanges of views on various issues .
in view of the large range of topics included in the annual report it will clearly be impossible to address all of them at our meeting today .
therefore i shall concentrate on some of the most pertinent issues , which have also been raised in the resolution drafted by your committee on economic and monetary affairs .
reviewing the first year of the existence of the single currency , i should like to start by reporting that the primary objective of the ecb , that is the maintenance of price stability , has been achieved .
indeed , with consumer prices in the euro area increasing by just 1.1 % in 1999 , inflation has reached one of the lowest levels in the past 50 years .
in line with its mandate , the ecb remains vigilant regarding risks to price stability , as evidenced by its monetary policy decisions in order to nip inflationary pressures in the bud before they materialise rather than to react once price stability is already in jeopardy .
the euro system will continue to pursue this forward-looking strategy in order to maintain an environment of stable prices , which is also conducive to sustained economic growth and job creation in the euro area .
i share the analysis of your motion for a resolution that governments should take advantage of the favourable economic environment in order to step up the efforts directed towards consolidating budgets and reducing public debt and go beyond the objectives laid down in the stability programmes .
at the same time , structural reforms in the labour product and capital markets should be pursued vigorously .
i should therefore like to comment on the possible emergence of a new economy in the euro area .
in my view , the most useful definition is that which characterises the new economy as a phenomenon which increases the growth rate of productivity over an extended period of time .
of course , there is a need to monitor developments further , with the emphasis on identifying new economic trends and potential structural breaks in traditional economic relationships as early as possible .
in any case it is important to stress that for the euro area the achievement of more flexible markets is a prerequisite if the potential gains from new technologies are to be realised in the form of substantially higher productivity growth .
in this respect , the euro systems monetary policy framework is well equipped to cope with such uncertainties .
by relying on two pillars , the ecb strategy explicitly acknowledges uncertainty regarding the structure of the economy and the transmission of monetary policy within the economy .
in the context of this discussion , some observers have urged the ecb to keep interest rates low in view of the new economy .
an inappropriately lax monetary policy would not create better conditions for the emergence of a new economy .
on the contrary , by jeopardising the maintenance of price stability , such a policy could seriously endanger the current ability of the ecb .
it would thereby undermine confidence , raise risk premia in interest rates and damage the prospects for economic growth and job creation .
it is for precisely this reason that the ecb will , in line with its mandate , continue to preserve price stability in the euro area .
i should now like to turn to another issue , which has been frequently discussed within the framework of our regular dialogue , namely the issue of transparency .
we always take our decisions from a euro area-wide perspective .
the publication of ecb reports on the economic developments of individual euro area member states , as is suggested in your motion for a resolution , has to be considered against this background .
i still envisage that publication of forecasts will commence towards the end of 2000 , in line with the statement i made last september at the european parliament 's plenary session on the previous ecb annual report .
forecast publication by the ecb should not be viewed as a panacea which will meet all the communication challenges faced by the ecb as a new institution in a testing multilingual and multinational environment .
it is the comprehensive analysis of the monetary and macroeconomic situation and the economic disturbances affecting the euro area economy which is the relevant input to forward-looking policy decisions .
i now turn to a related issue , namely the publication of the ecb 's economic and econometric models .
through this and other channels there is a professional dialogue and exchange of views between ecb staff and many outside experts , which is of mutual benefit .
for example , an econometric study of the demand for m3 in the euro area , conducted by ecb staff , was published in september 1999 .
an area-wide model used at the ecb , which models the aggregate behaviour of the euro area economy , will be published in this working paper series by ecb staff , probably at the end of this year or early next year .
the banking supervision committee also provides the forum for the exchange of relevant information between the euro system and the supervisory authorities .
finally , this committee may also act as a forum for supervisory cooperation not related to the tasks of the eurosystem .
the need for multilateral cooperation amongst banking supervisors has increased since the establishment of economic and monetary union , for two reasons .
against this background i perceive the banking supervision committee as the main forum in which multilateral cooperation amongst banking supervisors can be enhanced .
regarding the issue of cross-border retail payments , which has been raised by the european parliament on various occasions , i recall that in september 1999 the ecb published a report entitled improving retail cross-border payment systems - the eurosystem 's view .
the report called on the banking sector to provide substantially improved services by 2002 .
since the publication of that report the banking sector has subscribed to the eurosystem 's objectives in principle .
i fully share the european parliament 's concern that very little progress has been visible to customers .
the eurosystem would prefer to maintain its present stance of cooperation but will if necessary step up the pressure on the banking sector .
however , it would be unrealistic to expect the service level for cross-border payments to reach that of domestic payments in all respects by 2002 .
the ecb , as the guardian of the single currency , will continue to pursue its stability-oriented monetary policy in order to fulfil its mandate and to deliver the policy results that european citizens rightly expect .
mr president , mr duisenberg , ladies and gentlemen , the 1999 report before us from the ecb is both the first ecb report for a full year and also the first report since the introduction of the euro .
because of your stability-oriented policy , the countries in the euro area can boast a historically low level of price inflation .
but a young institution like the ecb has to win the confidence not only of the financial markets but also of the public .
at the same time , a low inflation rate is a policy for the economically disadvantaged in our society .
that is why it is important for the ecb to tailor its decisions to primary objectives .
the areas of economic growth and employment are primarily a matter for the member states .
the member states have got to take action themselves here .
another sign in the eyes of the public that the euro is a good thing would be a marked reduction in charges for cross-border payment transactions , which you have already mentioned .
we cannot allow decisions that we have made in the past to keep tying our hands when it comes to the present and future process , over a period of five to ten years .
we must maintain this process - this scope for interpretation .
in conclusion , i would like to thank all my colleagues and the committee secretariat very sincerely for their support with this report .
nonetheless , the central bank 's strategy has not always been completely clear or highly legible .
in fact , there have been a lot of copycat decisions between the european central bank and its big sister , the federal reserve in the united states .
when the federal reserve hikes its base rate by 25 points , the european central bank follows suit ; when the federal reserve adds 50 points , the central bank does likewise a few weeks later .
but the situation in the united states is quite different from the situation in europe and sometimes i get the impression that the european central bank is giving in slightly to market expectations and appeasing the markets with increases of 25 or 50 points and i worry somewhat when i read reports by financial analysts predicting increases of over 100 points by the end of the year .
i want a stronger european economy , not in opposition to , but in cooperation with the monetary fund , on the understanding that each of them retains its freedom of decision and action .
mr president , unfortunately i have run out of time and i would like to have said a great deal more , especially on enlargement .
clearly what matters is internal price stability , and the external value of the euro is of much less significance .
as he said , much of the debate which happens within the council is filtering out in the form of discussion within the monthly bulletin , but this is not the same as a regular report with a formal framework in which it is discussed .
it is also clearly crucial the ecb should look only at the euro zone as a whole in terms of its inflation and price stability objective .
it is essential to point out that different growth trends exist within the different national components of the euro zone economy , and that this implies different sustainable wage growth rates over time .
i very much hope that we will continue to apply the criteria of the treaty , no more and no less .
the group of the greens totally disagrees with the policy of raising interest rates , which has been applied since the end of 1999 .
we are as displeased by the second period of management by the bank , starting in the last quarter of 1999 , as we were satisfied with the first , not because the bank overestimates the importance of variations in exchange rates against the dollar - it does in our view , but that is by the by - but because the debate on exchange rates obviously masks the central bank 's aversion to growth and its serious underestimation of the potential rate of growth of the european union .
yes , there are difficulties with a rate of growth of 3 % but these difficulties imply that there should be more , not less investment and , hence , lower not higher interest rates .
what i would like to stress today is the scandal that is the second part of paragraph 11 of the radwan report .
it was after this law was announced that the toyota factory - and many others - decided to open in france .
the european parliament is the only institution in the community which is entitled to exercise any , albeit ex-post , control over the european central bank and its policy .
from this point of view , the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs does not meet the expectations of the citizens of europe , in that it fully supports the policy of the european system of central banks and , on several counts , is going beyond that policy by calling for even greater liberalisation .
the workers paying the price for this seriously negative neo-liberal policy have no confidence in it , nor do they share the european central bank 's ambition or the support given to its policy by the european parliament , the other institutions of the european union and the governments of the member states .
in this sense , we oppose both the policy of the bank and the support given to it by the european parliament .
alas , mr radwan , you see all the symptoms , but you cannot bring yourself to name the genetic disease afflicting the euro and provoking the scepticism of the markets , which have devalued it by 20 % , indifference on the part of the economic players , who have yet to adopt it , the distrust of the citizens : in the last survey , 41 % of europeans already thought that the euro was a bad thing for them and , admit it , there were signs of panic among the euro supervisory authorities , 18 months before the planned withdrawal of the national currencies .
add to that the increasing hostility of the british and the persistent distrust of the danes , which i hope to see confirmed on 28 september .
conceived in haste by france and germany following german reunification , followed by nine other countries , the so-called single currency was immediately put out for adoption by the political authorities to an independent bank , poor little cosette sent to the tenardiers in frankfurt !
perhaps your euro will rally , mr duisenberg , but it will not be thanks to you .
so , for pity 's sake , between now and then , do not out of wounded pride throttle a european economy which has already paid a heavy price in the chase for the euro in terms of growth and employment throughout the 1990s and which does not want to pay a second , equally heavy price in the chase for a strong euro .
however , we cannot allow this result to distract us from the many storm clouds gathering overhead .
the first issue is public finances : improvement in the relationship between public deficit and gdp , which , in the space of a few years , has fallen to below 2 % in the euro area , disguises the fact that , in many countries , in many instances , this result is due purely to favourable interest rates and to the fact that taxation has risen instead of fallen .
the long-term structural reductions in public spending are of secondary importance and , moreover , the national budgets of many countries remain at around 50 % , which is too high a level to control without risk of adding to the deficit in the event of crises or shocks .
the demagogic generosity of these systems has a very high cost which someone is going to have to pay very soon , and its effects will soon make themselves felt on the stability of the euro .
there is a problem of privatisation and liberalisation in many sectors .
there are countries such as france - large countries therefore - which have put the brakes on with regard to the liberalisation and privatisation chiefly - but not exclusively - of the telecommunications sector .
mandel , one of the forces behind the euro , when speaking of europe a few months ago , said that the governments are making the market too rigid .
instead of expecting central bank policy or taxation policy to resolve some of the problems of the european economy , european policy should resolve the issues it is able to , such as the issue of restructuring and flexibility in the economy and in the labour market , immediately .
furthermore , i share the rapporteur ' s satisfaction in noting that the ecb has stood by its commitment to publish information regularly on the financial variables in its possession , the economic forecasts and the econometric models used as the theoretical basis for the monetary policy it has implemented .
it is important that the principle of transparency is affirmed and it is a good thing that the ecb has set communication standards which could be an excellent point of reference for the activity of the central banks of the individual countries .
however , let us guard against interpreting the principle expressed in article 105 of the treaty too freely , for article 108 reads : " when exercising the powers and carrying out the tasks and duties conferred upon them by this treaty and the statute of the escb , neither the ecb , nor a national central bank , nor any member of their decision-making bodies shall seek or take instructions from community institutions or bodies , ...
or from any other body . " the monetary policy is certainly a lever which is capable of determining a country ' s economic performance , for better or for worse , but it is for this very reason that we must not give the ecb responsibilities which cannot fall within its remit , either under the treaty or in the light of the basic rules of economic policy .
the poor development of the macroeconomic variables in some of the countries of the euro area has been linked , very superficially but incorrectly , to the creation of the single currency : imbalances and unfavourable trends in some countries cannot be blamed upon the euro and still less upon the central bank ' s monetary policy , but they can be attributed to the absence of an unambiguous economic policy in euroland and the lack of structural reforms at the level of the individual national systems .
pages 60 and 61 of the ecb ' s annual report contain a discussion of the situation in denmark in 1999 .
it is pointed out that , in 1999 , the danish krone was stable and marginally stronger than the central rate in erm 2 .
speculation against the danish krone is occurring primarily because danish opinion polls suggest that there may be a ' no ' vote in the forthcoming referendum on 28 september .
if there is , in fact , a ' no ' vote in this referendum - and i very much disagree with my french colleague who has just spoken and who , if i understood him correctly , is hoping for just such a vote - then speculation against the krone may be expected to increase , in which case denmark will have need of that ecb support in defence of the krone which is provided for in the erm 2 agreement .
firstly , what conditions must denmark fulfil before the ecb will intervene in support of the krone ?
mr president , no one denies , mr duisenberg , that you and the european central bank are operating a very competent and successful monetary policy .
the report welcomes the improvement in the ecb ' s information policy .
it is one of the european union ' s most powerful institutions and this complete surrender of policy and democracy to the ecb cannot continue .
there is a second problem that worries me .
this narrowing of monetary and financial policy down to price stability is reflected in paragraph 9 of your report , mr radwan , where the rather revealing wording states that developments in labour markets and social security systems should support the ecb ' s stability policy , rather than the reverse , which would be more appropriate in view of the dramatic problems in these fields .
i hope that it will at last be possible to have a serious and essential debate with you about this trend and about instruments capable of influencing it , such as the tobin tax . ( applause ) mr president , mr duisenberg , ladies and gentlemen , i think that the radwan report is particularly important , because it cannot be read in isolation from the next item about the euro information campaign .
we must not allow information on the technical changeover to be overshadowed by information about the political objectives and the successes achieved so far .
by way of conclusion , i would therefore like to say that the euro , as this report demonstrates , is a project for growth and employment , for a successful single market and for enhancing europe ' s identity .
the euro is a project for price stability and lower inflation rates , for increasing competitiveness and improving public finances , so that we finally put a stop to the process of selling out our future for budget policy reasons .
mr president , the first annual report by the european central bank gives us a chance to thank the executive board of the european central bank for its hard work and to congratulate it on its successful administration in connection with the introduction of the euro .
these people worked extremely hard to attain our common objectives and we should acknowledge that , even if we disagree with them on certain crucial points of the monetary policy which they have applied over the year in question .
but the central bank has no right to publicly present the fight against inflation , which is its obligation under the treaty , when it itself is free to define inflation as it pleases .
mr president , whatever the value of the euro , the primary objective of the european central bank , as you have reminded us , mr duisenberg , is to maintain price stability without worrying about the economic and social consequences which come in the wake of these decisions .
that is why the ecb can increase its interest rates , at the risk of slowing down investment and dampening growth .
according to experts , nearly 950 billion french francs net poured out of the euro zone in 1999 in the form of direct investments abroad , i.e. 43 % more than in 1998 .
in the name of the fight against inflation and strict compliance with the stability pact , it even goes so far as to call the governments of the member states to order , but never has a word to say in criticism of the speculation sweeping the financial markets .
it fans the flames of privatisation in order to boost competitiveness and the return on capital .
it also advocates ' modernising ' social protection and reducing unemployment costs , thus applying the same logic as the agreement in france between employers and two trades union , an agreement which punishes the unemployed and makes them feel guilty .
we must re-open the debate on the remit of the european central bank in order to find a new credit policy which takes account of employment criteria .
the alternative in a truly social europe would be to substitute a growth , employment and training pact for the stability pact .
and if we are to implement this approach , it is vital that we strengthen control of the ecb by the european parliament and the national parliaments .
mr president , when it adopted the radwan report , the majority of the committee on economic and monetary affairs missed a rare and valuable opportunity to draw attention to reasons for the weakness of the euro that cannot be laid at the door of the european central bank .
rigid structures , the slow pace of liberalisation in important sectors of the economy and differences between inflation rates in individual euro member states , which are already a cause for concern , are the reason why the improvement in public finances in many member states is not the result of a sustained reduction in public expenditure and structural reforms , but rather a consequence of low interest rates and a heavier tax burden , which represent a threat to the stability pact .
it would also have been a good thing for this parliament if it had had the courage to recognise in this particular report that the present weakness in the single european currency is chiefly due to a lack of economic flexibility .
this is an unequivocal signal to voters in the euro area to give the all too numerous red-green governments their marching orders , if they ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , mr president of the central bank , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i cannot resist the temptation of replying to astrid lulling .
mr president of the european central bank , as you know , the recent 50-point increase in the base rate which you introduced , following hard on the heels of the increase at the end of april , has incited widespread debate in numerous member states in which growth has resumed ; it is feared that this increase in the base rate will upset this trend , which is essential if we want to resolve the problems facing our fellow citizens .
however , we are delighted at the prospect of a revision in the reference value which allows growth in the money supply to be evaluated .
the lack of any real coordination between our economic policies is the main cause .
it is within this framework that you will manage to strengthen the mutual confidence between governments which is needed if progress is to be made in this direction .
and then , mr president , allow me to question you on one final point .
once again , the figures speak for themselves : as a result of the reduction in working hours , there has been an increase in growth and jobs in the french economy . ( applause ) mr president , the european central bank is just a cog , albeit a highly symbolic cog , in the wheel of policy of all the member states of the union , a policy which promotes the profits of big business , while at the same time imposing what the report euphemistically refers to as a moderate wage policy .
the central bank , which has set itself up as the supreme guardian of this policy , claims to be acting to prevent budgetary deficit and indebtedness in the member states .
the elected members of lutte ouvriere will be voting against this report .
i wish that france and the french members of parliament were as active , for example , in the implementation of the action programme relating to financial services , as they are in promoting the social agenda .
president chirac yesterday emphasised with eloquence the importance of finding the right balance between these two objectives , and i wish you would listen to your president .
the report we are now dealing with also shows that progress was clearly made in this direction last year .
mr duisenberg , the fact that there are many econometric models does not prevent their all being published and made known to parliament also .
mr president , the radwan report has addressed honestly many of the issues which relate to the functioning of the central bank , ranging from prudential banking supervision and the cost of international money transfers on the one hand , to convergence requirements for applicant countries and the role of this parliament in providing the framework for the accountability of the ecb on the other .
the report welcomes the fact the ecb does not interpret its responsibility for stability policy one-sidedly , but that , in addition to inflation , it also monitors deflationary tendencies .
this is also important .
we all value economic and price stability , and the new paradigm in the united states gives us hope that such stability , including a balanced budget over the economic cycle , is consistent with growth and the steady reduction in unemployment .
i believe this is due to the lack of faith in the core euroland countries ' ability to govern and deliver fundamental structural reforms under their current governments , which otmar issing , the bank 's chief economist , has referred to as the serious structural rigidities in europe 's labour markets and pensions systems .
lastly , as a british member , i do not think it is fair that candidate countries should be subject to any stricter application of the maastricht convergence criteria for joining emu than the existing members and , as an out-country member , i urge the commission to consider the flexible european model that we british conservatives have adopted , allowing these countries to opt out of emu in future if they so wish after joining .
i believe that you have achieved the main objective of the european central bank : to maintain price stability .
i would also like to congratulate you on the change of method of adjudication , since the new variable rate system allows more direct control of the monetary aggregate as a result of greater knowledge of the market ' s demand curve and , furthermore , allows for certain signals to be sent to the markets on monetary policy .
we have seen the external value of the euro plummet .
there are many reasons which have been explored today , but a big reason is that the markets do not believe in a currency without a country .
too often in the past they have been told that changes in europe are technical .
there has been much debate in recent months about the strength or otherwise of the currency and i would like to pose a very simple question to the detractors of emu .
if the single currency is not working , why are so many countries seeking to join the new structure ?
i welcome the decision to allow greece full participation within the single currency .
in the scandinavian countries support for the single currency is rising .
fortunately we can draw on our experience of a change of currency in 1972 , when we broke with sterling .
mrs beres has asked a very precise question , about which i would like to say the following .
in the past twenty-five years the average growth rate for real gdp in the euro area has been between 2 and 2.5 % per year .
we are now entering the best period that europe has had in a long time , in decades , i might say .
unemployment will fall over the next two years .
not by very much , admittedly - there is nothing monetary policy can do to accelerate the process - but unemployment is coming down very gradually and will continue to do so .
if , as well all expect and hope , greece joins emu on 1 january next year , only denmark will be a member of the erm .
the question was asked what will the ecb do if that creates problems for denmark ?
i have already alluded in my introduction to the question of transparency and the summary minutes asked for in the motion for a resolution .
a week later the entire statement is produced again in a more final form .
the editorial in the monthly bulletin gives all the information that could be found in summary minutes of the meeting .
thank you , mr duisenberg .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m .
implementation of emu the next item is the report ( a5-0170 / 2000 ) by mr karas , on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , on the commission communication on communications strategy in the last phases of the completion of emu .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , 500 days from now euro banknotes and coins will come into circulation .
this will be the final stage of the first currency changeover on this scale in the history of our continent .
both large and small companies will have to adapt and change over their accounts and computer systems to the new currency , which will involve substantial preparatory work .
smes need to tackle their technical changeover as quickly as possible , and in doing so also to give some thought to the strategic consequences of a market notable for price transparency and increased competition .
secondly , there is the public at large , which includes all the target groups and more besides .
we have a very specific proposal , which is not only to change over all school books as soon as possible , but also to organise painting , drawing , essay-writing and public speaking competitions on the subject of ' changing to the euro ' , which is a defining topic for europe ' s identity .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we all know that the european public ' s need for information is still very great , although monetary union is already in place and euro banknotes and coins will come into circulation before too very long .
the committee on budgets , in common with all members of this house , is very much in agreement with the objectives described in the commission communication on the communication strategy covering the final stages of the completion of emu .
furthermore , enhanced preparation is just as desirable and important for all our citizens and for all consumers .
we therefore wish to stress once again that the decision on the breakdown of appropriations and the guidelines for implementation , including joint actions , is taken on the basis of the opinion given by the interinstitutional working group .
the information must come in cooperation with the member states , but what , in my opinion , is of most importance is that ngos are kept fully aware of what is happening .
it is absolutely essential that cross-border giros and payment transactions are in accordance with the principles of the internal market .
we wish to remind the house that the euro information programme is also , as defined in the budget , a joint european commission and european parliament programme .
if you compare prices in the eleven , that is in euroland , with prices in other countries which have remained outside the eleven , including the united kingdom but also switzerland and norway , where this is particularly apparent , you will see that price levels in euroland , even in the ' rich ' countries , are generally speaking lower than in the other countries .
unfortunately , this seems to apply not only to the public , but also to business .
we really must call on the member states of the european union to invest money , time and human resources in ensuring that the euro is a success .
but we should not forget that the resources for the information campaign are extremely slight and have to be shared out between the member states .
no company introducing an important product would rely on such modest resources to ensure that a product was a success .
we must all do this together , at all levels of the european union !
firstly , i would like to say that our group , as it did in committee , supports the karas report .
to this end , it is very important that a campaign be implemented - and a very good campaign - so that in 2002 the euro may enjoy the degree of confidence and acceptance which we all want .
furthermore , as has been said , there is a great delay in terms of the number of countries and companies prepared for its use and in terms of our citizens ' level of knowledge .
in this respect i would like very briefly to highlight three dimensions .
i would like to know commissioner solbes ' opinion with regard to participation at this level , which mr von wogau has also requested .
secondly , this decentralisation must also take place at company and industry level and not be limited to the headquarters of managerial or union organisations .
mr president , i welcome this opportunity to give a view from the outside , from scotland , for the time being part of the uk , where our diet of information about the euro is dominated by a rather lukewarm and unconvincing approach on the part of the labour government and an almost hysterically anti-euro rhetoric on the part of the conservatives .
in contrast my party - the scottish national party - recently reaffirmed our position of support in principle for entry to the euro currency and we are not afraid to promote that view .
but in particular i welcome the fact that this strategy also addresses those member states not yet taking part in monetary union , since of course we will be affected whether we join in or remain out .
i call on the uk and scottish governments to play a full part in that campaign .
mr president , there are three countries outside emu .
two of these countries , england and denmark , have had the good sense not to take part in the euro information campaign .
this means that the euro information campaign will not be a normal information campaign as it is in other countries , but a sort of persuasion campaign and the beginning of the fight between those that are for and those that are against in the referendum .
i am glad that no money from the campaign is formally being used for propaganda in the danish debate .
if i say this , it is because , as is well known , we are holding a referendum in denmark on 28 september on joining the euro , and it goes without saying that it is the public debate which forms the basis for this .
one positive point is that small and medium-sized enterprises have been identified as a very important target group , as this group is one where there could be considerable problems at the changeover stage .
after all , the hallmark of sound information is that it is tailored to the specific circumstances of those involved , and people and companies have a great deal more faith in their own associations and organisations than they do in public institutions .
although we have repeatedly stated that the euro has , since january 1999 , been the official currency of 11 eu member states , which greece and possibly denmark will join at the start of next year , and that the national currencies are just multiples and fractions of the euro , the fact of the matter is that the majority of europeans do not believe that escudos , pesetas , francs and marks are not still their official currency , because that is what they have in their pockets .
as i see it , information campaigns on the euro need to focus on precisely these two aspects : first , the value of the euro , its appearance and the way we use it as a currency , and , second , its potential and effectiveness in terms of monetary stability in the european union , the level of growth achieved - the highest in recent decades - and in terms of controlling inflation and creating employment .
it is essential to effectively coordinate the resources available so as to reach the target groups , and for us to be certain that there are no errors of the kind already identified in documents which the commission has widely distributed in portuguese schools .
and this is what the citizens of europe are waiting for .
mr president , on behalf of my group , i should like to express our surprise at the fact that a particularly extensive and sometimes even extremely complex resolution should have ensued from a relatively simple matter .
it is extremely regrettable that this enormous political error is detected to a far lesser extent by this house than the errors of liability on the part of commercial banks in the course of foreign exchange transactions .
true , some british newspapers declare that we already know all the facts , but the recent announcement of the merger between the frankfurt and london stock exchanges left many british newspaper editors spectacularly exposed on the simple issue of which currency would be used for the exchange denomination .
more than two-thirds of uk businesses are unaware of the practical implications of the introduction of the euro , even for those countries outside the euro zone .
but there is reason to believe that this campaign goes well beyond the provision of practical information .
but i personally fail to recognise this historic success over the last six months , and the astonishing suggestion that the euro has proved a stabilising factor in the face of international monetary crises .
therefore , the committee on budgets is nevertheless lending its support for funds to be freed up so that the danube commission can begin its work as soon as possible .
as regards the provision of this eur 22 million , the commission has suggested that 7.5 million be taken from phare , 7.5 million from ispa and 7 million from obnova .
so my reply is ' yes ' . ( parliament approved the commission proposal ) proposal for a council decision concerning the conclusion of an agreement between the community and cyprus establishing cooperation in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises within the framework of the third multiannual programme for small and medium-sized enterprises ( sme ) in the european union ( 1997-2000 ) ( com ( 2000 ) 242 - c5-0324 / 2000 - 2000 / 0099 ( cns ) ) ( committee on industry , external trade , research and energy ) madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the proposal presented by the council here is one which has our support , although it has one serious flaw .
according to article 14 of this proposal , and this was also discussed in the committee responsible , the documents are to be available in all 11 official languages of the european union , but not the second official language of the republic of cyprus , that is turkish .
this has also been the case this time .
it is the same procedure as applies in connection with the ombudsman .
the framework agreement also contravenes our own rules of procedure .
article 64 requires express equality between the council and parliament in the legislative procedure when the commission transfers documents .
that was something all the group chairmen agreed about when we began negotiations with the commission .
madam president , my group supports mr bonde ' s proposal for deferment , although this agreement undeniably contains some very worthwhile improvements to parliament ' s rights regarding , for example , talks on international agreements and its participation in the intergovernmental conference .
however , we cannot accept the way in which the council has interfered in relations between the commission and parliament now that the talks are over .
madam president , i will have the opportunity later to speak on behalf of my group .
my group called for this framework agreement , and it is very much committed to it .
relations between the commission and the european parliament will be put on a very firm and clear footing , and it is our common goal to support the building of europe .
the commission is the executive , we together with the council are the legislative , and this framework agreement will create means for the european parliament to exercise its parliamentary control function more effectively .
this framework agreement is based on the principles of parliamentarism , democracy and transparency .
however , taken as a whole , this agreement does represent progress , and i would sincerely like to thank everyone involved in it - you , madam president , vice-president loyola de palacio , the president of the commission , mr prodi , and also the political group leaders , who showed great commitment in their work on it .
the group of the european people 's party ( christian democrats ) and the european democrats will be unanimously voting for this agreement .
madam president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to express , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , our favourable view of the approval of this framework agreement , on the basis of the principles debated this very week - yesterday , in fact - when we took the view that we were carrying out european construction amongst all of us and fundamentally , as far as we are concerned , with the commission , based on the principles of democracy , transparency and responsibility .
parliament is more powerful and must therefore act more responsibly .
in this respect , we believe that we have taken an important step .
the negotiation has been very long .
i would like to end by making a last observation to the council , which has not taken part in this negotiation .
it would perhaps be a good thing if the council were also in a position and willing to adopt a standard of good conduct with parliament in the budgetary field and in the political field .
madam president , i believe the document that is before us today is a very significant document .
but in the large majority of cases , there is no near equivalent and that is a significant element in this document .
secondly , we had a major debate in this house last year that centred among other things on the question of commissioners accepting individual and personal responsibility for the exercise of their high office .
article 1.4 in annex 3 regulates which persons or bodies within this house may request of the commission access to confidential documents .
we have brought the document as far as we can with the commission , but i would say that , if we vote for it today , you must immediately instruct our committee on constitutional affairs to take up the question of delineating the rules in the house that will make it easier for rapporteurs to make requests either of their chairmen or of the other bodies named in this document .
this we regard as a genuine step forward , and the same is true of the fact that the commission is promising to do its best to keep the european parliament informed on the intergovernmental conference .
my group is very concerned about the developments that are under way in the council .
we hope and demand that the council gives a public and open explanation about whether in future it intends to respect relations between parliament and the commission , or whether it intends to interfere in them in the future .
the council particularly seems to be aiming for secrecy in the matter of security and defence policy , and it would appear that not just the european parliament - and via it , the public - will suffer from this attempt at secrecy , which entered the arena after these talks on agreements , when there was a call to amend the text , but also the european commission will suffer as a result .
however , we assume that this agreement will serve to strengthen the relationship between the commission and the parliament , a relationship based on trust .
you may be sure that if this house approves the framework agreement , members in my group will watch very closely to ensure that it is actually adhered to .
we assume that the agreement stipulated in point 13 will be strictly adhered to , in accordance with which the members of this house will , as the only institution which has democratic legitimacy , be the first to be provided with information - and i mean all information - as only in that way can we exercise our mandate as the public expects of us .
i therefore hope that this point 18 , which relates to the exceptional provision of point 13 , will never need to be applied .
furthermore , given that the common security and defence policy is referred to here , at a time when we are aware that europe is involved in establishing emergency armed forces for military intervention , this really does not bode well .
one final comment : we all heard president chirac address this house yesterday .
i believe that we will all be paying very close attention to what happens during the french presidency and to whether the council operates in a more transparent and democratic way in future .
president , it is appropriate to reflect for a moment on how this interinstitutional agreement comes to be before us today for debate .
it is very important that all the eu institutions operate effectively and efficiently and the 370 million citizens of the european union must support and have confidence in the union 's internal legislative processes .
the european council represents the interests of the fifteen governments of the union and has very strong legislative powers .
the negotiations for this framework agreement have been tortuous .
it may not be a perfect document but it is certainly a step forward .
it is more exacting than the agreement that has existed between the two institutions over the past five years .
the two institutions will now agree to extend constructive dialogue and political cooperation , to improve the flow of information and to consult and inform parliament on administrative reform within the commission .
for example , i know that the commission is required to keep parliament informed of the enlargement negotiations to enable it to express its views in good time through appropriate parliamentary procedures .
that is right and proper , in view of the fact that the european parliament has to approve the right of any member state to accede to the union as a new and full member .
the parliament also has the final say as to whether or not international agreements such as the wto talks are approved .
parliament cannot be expected to make important decisions on such matters unless the necessary and appropriate information has been forwarded to the members for their consideration .
that is why the commission must set in train open procedures to transmit up-to-date information on the whole range of regulations , directives and international accords being discussed and enacted by the union .
madam president , on behalf of the italian radical members , i would like to stress that the framework agreement strikes an important balance in relations between our two institutions .
madam president , my group is to vote against the framework agreement .
the commission should also be entitled to have confidential drafts on the table throughout the preparative phase .
in the legislation process , we sit , as we all know , in committees and debate draft bills .
it is a humiliating situation which is completely unacceptable .
and it is as individual meps and rapporteurs that we should have this legal entitlement and not by going down on our knees before the president .
in my opinion , the framework opinion before us today represents a practical , balanced approach to the relationship between our institutions .
the european parliament is an important body .
i am therefore very concerned that these two different inquiries , which may proceed as a result of any votes taken here today , will cause confusion , difficulty and may indeed prejudice the position of the european parliament .
we shall certainly support the conference of presidents ' proposal , but in view of my earlier remarks we should now reconsider this position , or at least be given some assurances about the french authorities ' actions on this matter .
madam president , we have just spoken at length about transparency in relations between the commission and parliament .
consequently , before an important vote such as that which are about to take , we must not be under any illusions as to what is at stake .
it was said that surveillance took place anyway , it was even added , some even said that it was important to have surveillance systems in order to track down serious criminals .
finally , an important distinction needs to be made : echelon is , in fact , a surveillance system which targets not specific communications but all communications and data transfers .
my second comment , madam president , i am sorry , but we have not had a debate in this house .
there are clear amendments on our order paper today which deal with that point .
madam president , i have no intention of opening a debate .
this amendment relates to article 6 ( 3 ) of the 1991 directive which is to be amended and to article 1 ( 5 ) of the present directive , which is to amend the old directive .
i pointed this out during the discussions in the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs , but for some reason this error of translation has still not been rectified .
agreement between the european union and cyprus ( c5-0324 / 2000 ) according to the agreement between the european union and cyprus , the cost of participation in the programme by cypriot undertakings will be covered in full by the republic of cyprus .
in addition , cyprus also covers the cost of its participation in other programmes .
i should also like to point out that the total cost of adapting cyprus to community acquis is put at between 500 and 900 million cyprus pounds , i.e .
obviously economic relations between cyprus and the european union are unfairly stacked against the republic of cyprus and the people of cyprus have nothing to gain from accession , which is why the members of the communist party of greece abstained rather than vote in favour . - ( el ) i should like to use the vote on the agreement between the european union and the republic of cyprus on small and medium-sized enterprises to raise the issue of the new provocative action by the denktash regime in strovilia , where the occupying forces have advanced their position on the green line in an arbitrary act of aggression just a few days before proximity talks are due to start in geneva .
i voted for the motion partly because pensioners and the elderly are among the most frequent victims of this type of forgery - as always the prime targets - in the hope that , when we return to the issue , a decision will , at last , be taken to acknowledge that when a citizen is the victim of a crime the state is liable , albeit indirectly , in the same way as it is at football matches .
i therefore hope that a decision will soon be taken to oblige the state to pay compensation to victims of common crimes , and therefore also to provide compensation for citizens who have been the victims of fraud .
lienemann report ( a5-0172 / 2000 ) mr president , of course i voted for the motion .
article 3 of this measure sets aside eur 300 million to be spent between 2000 and 2004 on the protection of birds in general and certain important species of bird in particular .
i also welcome the fact that the amendments relating to the objectives of the programme have been approved , as has the compromise proposal for a new programme .
but we shall continue to repeat until we are blue in the face that a real european environmental policy can only be applied , or even constructed , with the necessary funds .
the environment will never be taken seriously with a budgetary line of this size , compared with the budgets for agriculture or the structural funds which still often have an adverse impact on the environment .
when the council and the commission start taking environmental policy seriously , the budgetary line which they propose in the general budget will be commensurate with the challenges we have to face .
this applies both to environmental policy projects and to the human resources which the dg for the environment needs in order to implement them .
jarzembowski report ( a5-0173 / 2000 ) mr president , the three key factors which typify the transport of people and goods in terms of competition are price , reliability and speed .
public enterprises started to shape up as private companies , increasingly so , where growth , profit and market value were considered more important than the social consequences of their actions .
whether or not it is judicious to separate infrastructure from the operation of the railway industry is to be decided by the national or regional governments and is not a task of the european union .
and it is certainly not up to the european union to implement forced privatisation of urban or regional transport companies , as is in danger of happening in the short term .
if a clear split is not made between the trains operated by the railway companies on the one hand and the management of railway infrastructure on the other , the objective of this directive will be seriously undermined .
i have therefore rejected the solution opted for in article 6 ( 4 ) of the common position .
mr president , as we were at second reading , i was unable to register my opposition to the swoboda and , more importantly , the jarzembowski report .
parliament , in its perennial quest to go one step further and faster than the commission and the council , has wheeled out its regulating steamroller and wants to put all the networks in one basket .
he goes far beyond what is proposed in the common position presented by the council .
that is why i have not voted in favour of any of his proposed amendments . - ( de ) the completion of the internal market in rail transport is certainly every bit as desirable as it is essential .
however , i believe that this objective can be achieved after a reasonable transitional period , in accordance with the principle of gradual liberalisation , without it necessarily requiring a statutory split between the provision of transport services by train operators on the one hand and infrastructure management on the other .
i cannot therefore support the recommendation for second reading as presented by a majority of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
in my own small country of luxembourg , splitting up the railway company in this way would , for many good reasons , but not least safety , transport quality and railwaymen ' s working conditions , be inappropriate to the point of absurdity .
it is also impossible for me to accept the deletion here at second reading of the provision under which luxembourg , as a member state with a relatively small rail network , does not need to apply the requirement to award the functions determining equitable and non-discriminatory access to infrastructure to an independent body until 31 august 2004 .
article 6 of the directive in fact obliges member states to establish independent bodies performing these tasks .
i believe that the compromise negotiated in the council of ministers on 28 march 2000 is better and much more realistic . - ( fr ) rail transport today stands at the heart of the public service deregulation and liberalisation projects being implemented by the european union .
the approach taken in the jarzembowski report is to bring the management of railway undertakings into line with private sector management as much as possible and to introduce the pressure of competition .
the logic behind the jarzembowski report will inevitably lead to a deterioration in safety standards , poorer quality services , a reduction in services to customers and a loss of social rights for employees .
the uk invented railways , developed them and was the first to privatise them .
we should have acknowledged here that european railway systems are all different , and their diversity merits the derogations proposed .
we should have placed greater emphasis on the introduction of rail regulators , as the uk now has , and less on the ideology of physical separation of infrastructure and operating services .
and we need to be absolutely certain that we have licensing systems which carry obligations , and network benefits for passengers .
he entertains the possibility of authorities offering financial compensation in order to make the use of railways safe for public transport and does not rule out a role for public companies in future .
we support the council ' s common position because it represents a balance which marks a new stage in the opening-up of the rail market , pending the adoption of provisions ensuring balanced competition between and within modes of transport .
the existence of firms which perform the functions of both infrastructure management and railway undertakings at the same time is not a barrier to the opening-up of the market , in that transparent , non-discriminatory procedures are established and monitored by an independent regulator .
what is more , an integrated company is generally in a better position to develop new technologies relating to both the infrastructure management and the railway undertaking .
a railway company whose decisions are oriented towards achieving the best possible technical and economic situation is in a position to implement the necessary innovations rapidly and to assume the responsibility of the investment risks .
the railway system is a technically diversified system which , in any case , whatever the organisational solution adopted , requires substantial coordination .
there is a greater guarantee of safety when the management of the railway system is entrusted to an integrated company for the following reasons : the company controls all the elements of the system and their interaction ; it receives quicker and more detailed feedback regarding events affecting the system ; it gives the authorities the security of there being a single body responsible for the safety of the system .
respect for the principles of fairness and transparency in the allocation of capacity or in pricing is essential , but it cannot just be assumed that the separation system is the best way of ensuring that these principles are respected .
in effect , an integrated company system , a railway authority , as provided for in the common position adopted in march , would be perfectly capable of guaranteeing non-discriminatory network access and guaranteeing fair line prices .
in addition to the contribution of the state supervisory organs which already exist to some extent , more effective and extensive supervision of competition in the european railway transport sector would thus be provided by the railway authority envisaged in the council ' s common position .
the common position represents a delicate balance which supports the principles of liberalisation of the industry while giving due consideration to the particularities of individual member states .
part of this common position includes a complex derogation in respect of ireland , northern ireland and greece as well as further considerations for luxembourg .
in the case of greece and of both parts of the island of ireland there are obvious geographical obstacles to full participation in a single rail market .
the council position is , i believe , in the best interests of both the rail industry and the consumer .
in summary , colleagues , as a member of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism i recognise the desirability of developing a single market in rail-service provision and the potential benefits for the consumer .
the granting of a derogation to the geographically-separated rail networks of ireland , northern ireland and greece does not in any way undermine this principle .
railway transport in france is a precious public service , a real tool for regional planning in the broad sense of the term , above all , from the rural point of view .
the model of the french railways is also a factor in social cohesion .
in fact , it is perfectly normal to maintain services to unprofitable stations by funding them from much more profitable stations .
that is why , as a french member of the edd group , i feel it is important to defend the notion of a public service in this procedure .
to conclude , i would remind you that , as a member for the edd group , i support maintaining employment and social cohesion , especially in rural areas , in order to safeguard activities .
it is even more important to ensure that the public services provided in our villages do not disappear .
if the railways are liberalised , we can kiss rural life goodbye , which is why we are opposed to this blind liberalisation and its consequences . - ( sv ) the present increase in haulage in europe is untenable in the long term .
however , the system that we have in europe today with fifteen separate railway systems makes it impossible for railway traffic to compete on the same terms as road traffic .
therefore , the railways in the eu need to be liberalised and the market for the transportation of goods by rail needs to be opened up .
the members of the swedish social democratic party , pierre schori , anneli hulthen , jan andersson , maj-britt theorin , goran farm and ewa hedkvist petersen would like to stress the following points of view in connection with the consideration of mr jarzembowski 's and mr swoboda 's draft recommendations for second reading .
such a separation must be effected as quickly as possible , as it is a prerequisite for different transport firms being able to compete with each other on the same terms as apply within other forms of transport .
the aim is to create a system of fees that is neutral with regard to competition and does not discriminate against any form of transport .
wieland report ( a5-0174 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the wieland report because there needs to be an increase in professional requirements in the european union .
but in numerous countries , and in france at least , hundreds of foreign doctors working in hospitals are underpaid because their diplomas are not recognised .
this is mainly because it is difficult to identify which department they need to address , but it is also because the staff in these departments have insufficient training to meet their demands .
specifically , the proposal for a directive contains a number of welcome provisions clarifying existing legislation .
a new provision also allows the required two years professional experience to be avoided .
the european parliament proposed numerous other provisions at first reading , mainly seeking to extend the information requirements of the member states .
this obviously requires negotiation and agreement between various architects ' representative bodies in ireland on a registration process .
the agreement bears out existing practice and even limits public access to a certain extent .
a right which all meps still have at present would , on the basis of this decision , soon be limited to a chosen few , whilst at the same time , the list of documents which can only be supplied with the permission of third parties would be extended to include international organisations such as the wto and the world bank .
a government which keeps information from its citizens is unreliable but a government which does not even take its own parliamentarians seriously is not ready for democracy yet .
i fear that this framework agreement will basically perpetuate the policy of inadequate transparency that we have seen in recent years , instead of seizing a genuine opportunity and finally attempting to do justice to our remit by ensuring greater transparency and preventing the commission from continuing to take refuge behind confidential documents .
nevertheless , like 145 other members , especially those who are members of the sos democracy intergroup , i did not vote , for two reasons .
first , annex 3 , which restricts the transmission of confidential information to the european parliament , represents a step backwards in comparison with the current situation .
article 276 of the treaty states that the commission should submit all the necessary information to parliament in connection with the discharge procedure .
according to the framework agreement , it is only the conference of presidents , parliament ' s president and the chairman of the committee on budgetary control who can ask the commission for information .
we consider this agreement to contravene article 276 of the treaty which clearly stipulates that parliament shall have access to the information it requires .
there is no doubt that the commission , as an executive body , is fully within its rights to investigate different points of view and prepare drafts in the form of internal working documents without the obligation to publish them .
the fact that an application to peruse confidential documents has to go through committee chairmen or the president of the european parliament is unacceptable to me .
the ' echelon ' system ( b5-0593 and 0594 / 2000 ) mr president , the european parliament has brought disgrace upon itself today and seriously undermined its own credibility .
and , in order to be really sure that it will be ineffectual , parliament has drowned its mandate in vast questions such as risks from secret services in general to individual rights or the value of the protection offered by coding to the private lives of our citizens .
it has been established from and confirmed by numerous sources that this wholesale bugging of all telephone signals has had considerable economic and commercial repercussions , to the detriment of european companies such as alcatel or airbus , which have lost huge contracts to american multinationals privy to privileged information obtained fraudulently and illegally .
then why accept the echelon system , which makes us dependent and poorer as the result of lost contracts ?
and we , the french members of the front national , the flemish members of the vlaams blok and the italian members of the mse , are alone in defending the need for a committee of inquiry into this global spy system .
we must defend the true europe , the truly european europe ! - ( de ) i am in favour of setting up a genuine committee of inquiry to investigate an infringement of fundamental rights by the echelon interception system .
luckily , we still have sovereign states in europe to defend european interests , states with sovereign justice which can unilaterally open an investigation into the activities of this network , a leftover from the cold war which has now been turned into an industrial spy tool at the expense of certain companies and certain member states in the european union .
i hope that other member states will follow france 's example .
the 1991 directive confined itself to examining money laundering practices with regard to drugs money .
hopefully , the proposals submitted by the rapporteur will open up the possibility of adopting a forceful approach in the fight against organised crime , such as trafficking in people and smuggling , but also fraud and corruption in the art trade .
are the profits amassed by western companies by making children under ten work in poor countries for a pittance clean money ?
this directive was in serious need of revision in order to adapt it to the new international economic and financial climate .
france , which is a key figure in the fight against this scourge , has clearly indicated that it intends to make this issue a priority item on the european union 's working agenda .
just a few figures suffice to substantiate this position .
money laundering accounts for between 2 % and 5 % of the world 's gdp each year .
discussions have been reopened at international level with a view to proposing effective new measures to fight this scourge .
money laundering as defined in the directive should no longer apply solely to the proceeds from drug trafficking , it should also apply to activities linked with organised crime , such as fraud , corruption and any other illegal activity which affects the financial interests of the european communities .
i have therefore voted in favour of this directive , which forms part of the general action plan to fight organised crime .
the great advantage of this directive was that its adoption led to all the member states declaring money laundering an offence subject to criminal prosecution .
we all agree on the need - and parliament has called on several occasions - for a review of the 1991 directive , which already goes much further than the 40 recommendations made by the fatf in 1996 and which has been applied successfully by the member states .
that is why the criminal activities associated with the concept of money laundering need to be very clearly defined , in order to prevent the requirements of the directive from being extended to fraudulent activities in general in relation to money circulating legitimately in the financial system .
those who feel the urge to denounce the black sheep in the fight against money laundering and put pressure on tax havens should go right ahead ; but they should at least exert pressure on those who really baulk at helping in the fight against money laundering and , more importantly , they should refrain from automatically classifying countries which respect banking secrecy as ' turntables for dirty money ' .
the proof is that the russian mafia tried to invest its dirty money in several european financial centres before deciding on new york , which does not recognise banking secrecy .
it is important to emphasise that lawyers must be considered equal to advocates in those countries that do not have the compulsory employment of counsel .
lehne report ( a5-0179 / 2000 ) mr president , i also abstained from the vote on this document on the list of states into which it is permitted to enter with or without a visa , for this is certainly a barrier to the free movement in the european union of citizens resident in other states .
the council of ministers and the commission should make representations to the authorities in the usa , which insist on visas for greek nationals .
no visa is needed for money to enter , irrespective of its origin , but nationals from numerous countries require a visa , even if they are staying for less than three months .
we abstained rather than voting against this report , despite disapproving of the spirit of the report as a whole , solely because , compared with the current situation , it does slightly extend the list of countries with no visa obligation .
the list of countries whose citizens require a visa for entry into the eu contains more than 130 countries .
europe needs to change its attitude to immigration .
haug report ( a5-0184 / 2000 ) mr president , firstly i wish to express my satisfaction with the fact that the entire budget has been tightened up and the increase in appropriations amounts to 1.07 % of total gnp for the member states , while the corresponding figure in the budget for 2000 was 1.11 % .
first , we feel that it fails to make a distinction between the debate on the 2001 budget and the debate on the revision of the financial perspectives , which we refuse to revise .
no french delegation from the european parliament could possibly question the compromise which resulted from the difficult negotiations in march 1999 .
as far as the figures announced by romano prodi last november are concerned , the commission may take them back today , it knows full well that these sums are not , alas , based on an accurate analysis of the region 's needs and , in its own words , it is a ' political ' sum which , by the way , has never been approved either by parliament or , more importantly , by the council .
the fact that we have seen a chronic surplus of over eur 3 billion at the end of the year demonstrates that the sum of appropriations voted for does not correspond to real needs , whilst it is possible to make substantial savings as the result of the patent under-implementation of certain programmes .
although the ceiling is reached if you add market expenditure ( 1a ) , rural development ( 1b ) and pre-accession agricultural expenditure , to accept differentiated appropriations for rural development is to run the risk of having the commission propose substantial commitment appropriations and far fewer payment appropriations , to the detriment of our farmers yet again , and this we cannot accept . - we have voted against point 9 in the haug report , concerning the transfer of funds from the budget for agricultural policy to the reconstruction programme for the western balkans .
in the same way , we reject the cut of eur 300 million for agriculture .
first of all , i wanted to vote against amendment no 11 .
it was purely a mistake that i voted in favour of that amendment , since any amendments to the commission proposal were very bad and endanger the whole procedure of getting the safe harbour agreement enforced .
we have negotiated with our us counterparts for over two years .
i voted against the committee proposal along with other members of my group .
however , we all know that at present data is already being circulated in practice , but in an unregulated way .
so while the safe harbour principle may not be an ideal solution to this problem , it will at least impose a certain number of rules and will be a way of preventing abuse .
that said , i still subscribe to the report because , as matters stand , there are no provisions whatsoever for guaranteeing eu data protection standards in the exchange of data with other continents .
personal data on eu citizens is already circulating in third countries , without any fundamental control ; in fact we barely even know the extent of the arbitrary acts already committed .
knowing as we do from the echelon interception system that every form of democratic control is being flagrantly violated from without or from a distance , knowing that american multinationals are engaged in wholesale monitoring and spying at the expense of european undertakings and the economic , social , political and cultural activities of the member states and the private life of the union citizens as a whole , it is slightly hypocritical of us to approach this huge issue in stockinged feet with our prayer-book in hand .
it is not yet too late , but we must all realise that 2001 will be crucial in our efforts to involve the entire european population in this giant operation .
by means of the amendments which i have tabled and which have also been included in the report , i wanted to underline a number of aspects of this campaign .
in the first instance - and i will not labour the point as it was sufficiently highlighted this morning - the campaign must devote special attention to making young people aware and involve education in the information campaign .
secondly , an information campaign must obviously be tailored to specific target groups , such as the weaker members of society .
commissioner solbes , i must express my approval of this report for i feel that the introduction of the euro is one of the most important , key results of the formation of the european union out of our 15 states .
i believe i can make a small contribution to this effort : i will have posters put up in the areas in italy in which i was a candidate for the elections , calling upon the italian government to raise the minimum pension to eur 500 .
it is a shame that the government will not accept this proposal , but , at least it will serve to teach the italian pensioner citizens the value of the euro .
mr president , as i and many colleagues have argued for some time , the monetary union project is profoundly dangerous .
the proposal before us talks of information on the euro , but we already have all the information we need .
this is not about information , this is about propaganda .
now , if the 12 euro countries wish to undertake a propaganda campaign , that is no business of mine .
but in three countries , denmark , sweden and great britain , the euro decision is not yet made .
i therefore have two demands to make of the commission .
better still , cancel the whole project and put all the funds into a special account to help defray the enormous costs that will be incurred when the euro is eventually dismantled .
firstly , the communication is part of a very complex operation , that is , the introduction of the euro , in the form of coins and notes , on 1 january 2002 .
secondly , in the application of this process of introducing the coins and notes , the principle of subsidiarity plays a fundamental role .
this means that the member states , through their governments and central banks , are fundamental to the whole process and also to the operation of providing information .
our role as commission consists , in some cases , of persuading , in others , of acting and , in the majority of cases , of communicating to the member states ideas which they can or cannot apply , and , in some other cases , of proposing specific actions .
the main concern at the moment is to determine the level of preparation of member states , companies and citizens .
with regard to the member states , i can tell you that next week i will present the commission with a report on the practical application of the euro .
companies are the special objective of the information campaign at the moment .
as for the rest , there is a certain contradiction between this position , which in theory is so favourable to the companies , and the lack of use of the euro in normal operations at the moment .
this is the reason why we believe that we must pay special attention to companies during this period , as well as to citizens .
the commission intends to implement certain specific actions , apart from the july communication , regular reports to ecofin , a proposal on counterfeiting , which will be presented before the end of the year , and also a series of measures necessary for coordination .
i would like to make some comments relating to the various points mentioned in the debate .
on the whole , the proposals in the communication coincide with the proposals which have been made here .
nevertheless , there are certain points which deserve additional comment .
firstly , what action must we take in the ' pre-in ' countries or in third countries ?
two of them , for the moment , denmark and the united kingdom , have not shown any interest in implementing these information campaigns .
your recommendations include many of the actions which , in our opinion , must be asked of the member states and , to this end , we will send a communication to the different countries so that they may take account of them .
i would like to highlight certain very interesting aspects which have been mentioned such as paying special attention to training , schools , women , specific sectors , such as tourism , or the tremendously interesting initiative of the distribution of price tables , or the initial or additional obligations of public administrations .
the commission is absolutely prepared to work with parliament , with the european central bank and with the member states in order to implement a programme which is more efficient , bearing in mind however that , in accordance with the current model , approximately two thirds of the total expenditure of the programme will be met by the member states , according to their specific programmes .
with regard to the possibility of providing more resources or extending the information process , as proposed in the karas report , the commission is in favour of both options .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
a decision in favour of a limited ban on these grounds would not primarily be based on the precautionary principle , but on the routine procedure for dealing with toxic chemical substances .
to ban all of the 350 or so currently known phthalates is to proceed on the assumption that all phthalates are associated with more or less the same risks .
once these phthalates are no longer used in toys , further risk assessments and the proposed review of this directive in two years ' time ought to be sufficient .
as the rapporteur , i share the concerns of the members of parliament in my committee .
we must ensure that they are not exposed to unnecessary and unacceptable health risks and acknowledge the public concern on this issue .
as politicians we need clear advice from scientific committees if we are to make rational judgements , take the necessary risk management measures and produce good legislation .
i believe that this legislation shows us that we need action on a number of areas : ( a ) we urgently need to continue work on migration testing and research into chronic toxicity and the behaviour of children ; ( b ) we need to review and update this legislation periodically and as gaps in knowledge are filled , where necessary add new substances to the ban in the commission 's legislation .
when , in 1998 , reports emerged about the possible harmful effects on children ' s health , the european commission proposed - or tried to propose at any rate - a ban on the application of certain phthalates .
this is not only because there are smaller children who play with toys produced for older children , but also because there are also children in this age group who still suck things .
the amendments before us , which call for a review after two years , for the evaluation of new test methods and for scientific studies on the dangers of pvc products , are helpful in maximising health protection for us all in the long term , not just for small children .
to sum up then , it is for us to decide whether to opt for the precautionary principle and a high degree of protection , or whether we intend to hide behind scientific reports , which can , however , never relieve us of the responsibility of taking the necessary political decisions .
the facts are before us : plasticisers in children ' s toys represent a massive risk for children ' s health and can even be carcinogenic .
i therefore totally fail to comprehend the whole lobbying campaign being mounted by the chemical industry .
it is obvious that children who are only a few years old cannot assimilate a warning text .
the commission 's proposal is also completely insufficient for this .
mr president , this debate again confirms parliament 's commitment to public health and indeed to environmental issues as well , and i welcome the opportunity to make a brief intervention .
it is well known that pvc may present a risk when used in toys for young children .
the proposal to amend the original directive on this matter will ban the marketing of toys and childcare articles containing pvc which are designed to be placed in the mouths of children under the age of three .
every time the european parliament has debated this issue there have been increasing doubts as to the safety of these toys which derive from pvc .
we know that when there is doubt about a particular measure , the european parliament must apply the precautionary principle .
this principle in essence means that safety and health must be put before any conflicting scientific evidence , and i fully support the previous speakers who again referred to the importance of applying the precautionary principle .
although after 40 years of use , no cases of damage to health are known , the seed of suspicion has nonetheless been sown that softeners are harmful .
mr president , mr arvidsson , i fully appreciate the work which you have done on this report .
i would like to concentrate here on the application of the precautionary principle and on the difficulties in this case of dealing with an issue on which scientific considerations are confused and mixed up with emotional considerations , as well as a long history of disagreements between the industry of pvc and its derivatives and the environmental lobby , which , of course , is also deeply involved with this issue of phthalates .
we are talking about risks to children ' s health .
however , we must not forget that we are also talking , with reasonable certainty , about the harmful effects of six phthalates , and also , with a degree of uncertainty , of the other substances belonging to this group .
in this respect , there is one good example : four years ago , given the opinion that silicon implants may be carcinogenic , several countries adopted an alternative substance for their manufacture based on soya oil .
a few days ago the united kingdom banned these implants and is gratuitously withdrawing existing stocks , having discovered that they are carcinogenic .
the social and health cost of a hasty decision may be medically and economically irreparable .
the scientific evidence demanded in amendments nos 11 , 13 and 24 seem to me to be absolutely necessary in any event , but especially in the case of this type of issue where lives are at stake and where we are likely to punish or benefit certain production sectors .
he is in the unusual position of producing a report on commission action which has already been taken and it is the way it has been taken that we are to some extent talking about here .
secondly , on the wider issue of pvcs in general , how soon will we get the kind of migration testing from which phthalates ' safety can be assessed and the review which is called for in one of the amendments ?
on the issue of labelling , i am sorry to see that there are amendments against this .
allowing the sale of objects containing dangerous substances which children will put in their mouths goes completely against the precautionary approach .
in banning some of the objects the commission recognises that these substances are dangerous .
mr president , it is high time that a total ban were introduced on phthalates in all toys for children under three years of age , as is already the case in denmark .
it is quite unacceptable that we can get into a situation in which we are going to reduce the level of safety for our children .
if the precautionary principle is not to be employed in respect of one of the most vulnerable consumer groups - our children - it is very difficult to imagine when , in fact , it is to be employed .
i should like to know why the commission only wants the six phthalates which have been investigated to be banned , instead of them all .
i do not know if mr chirac was familiar with the detail of this report , but in any case he gave us a very clear pointer on how to vote tomorrow .
if we are to take our work at all seriously , then we should invoke the precautionary principle and ban the use of all phthalates as plasticisers .
and i do not mean that in a bilateral sense , but in the framework of the community of fifteen .
how could we allow these six phthalates to be used as plasticisers in pvc without having scientific proof at that time that they were harmless ?
in our private lives , in our own homes , we take all the safety precautions we can in order to take care of our own children .
several speakers here have said that we know that these substances can be hazardous to health .
the commission 's proposal is neither sensible nor sufficient .
i can only imagine a situation at a play school or a nursery school where the nursery teacher has to try to keep a check on which children are under and which are over three years of age as well as which children are allowed to put what in their mouths in accordance with all the experiments the commission is trying to include .
the question on pvc softeners in young children 's chewing toys is : who says there is definitely a risk ?
the answer is mr suresh rastogi , a danish researcher who used the phthalates he happened to have in his laboratory .
of the six named phthalates to be banned as a result , two are used for flooring and cosmetics but not for children 's toys , one is not used at all , one is not made at all , one is not used because of fears it might be carcinogenic ( though on 8 february it was totally cleared by the who ) and that leaves one , dinp that is used to soften pvc in chewing rings and so on .
the cstee met and decided on 25 november .
on 22 november , three days earlier , the commission had imposed a temporary ban , and we have to ask the commission why .
if that cannot be shown clearly , then the legality of the temporary ban can and should be questioned in this case .
phthalates are , of course , a group of chemicals there is every possible reason for being on guard against , not only in connection with toys but also more generally .
i am therefore in favour of banning all phthalates in toys designed for the smallest children .
there are some who have argued that banning the use of phthalates in toys would have an adverse effect upon the plastics industry and upon employment in that industry .
the precautionary principle is very sensibly described in a recent commission paper .
for example , a thousand people a year - no doubt some of them small children - die in england and wales while falling downstairs .
i do hope that does not mean that we are going to see a european union regulation restricting us all to living in bungalows .
this proposal suggests that , on emotive subjects , the commission is prepared to act on the basis of that emotion , without the kind of sensible assessment of risk that we need here , as we do for example on risks in foodstuffs .
there has to be , even with the precautionary principle , a substantial link between the assessment of risk and action by the european union .
yes , eight member states have banned phthalates , but when the commissioner replies , can he tell us whether those eight member states have supplied the commission with the scientific evidence that they based their ban on ?
that might have enabled the commission to bring forward a proposal we could all agree with .
if these are dangerous , then they should all be banned and warnings would then be unnecessary .
the only problem with this is that the action is then quite disproportionate to the risk , and sets a thoroughly bad precedent for future european union action in relation to the chemicals we use .
parliament has even shown a desire to ban all of the nearly 350 phthalates instead of the six proposed by the commission .
however , there is some kind of evidence of the possibility of danger in the case of only two phthalates .
it is excellent that the eu is active in this matter , as seven member states have already introduced national regulations .
the precautionary principle is a very important tool in environmental legislation .
neither is it sufficiently justifiable to resort to the precautionary principle if , for example , some member states have introduced national legislation in this area .
it is at least as important today to make sure we preserve the precautionary principle for future needs as it is to take a decision on the banning of phthalates .
mr president , this commission proposal aims for a long-term ban on the use of phthalates in toys as an emergency measure .
furthermore , the commission proposal is the result of two opinions issued by the scientific committee on toxicity , ecotoxicity and the environment .
it appears that the commission has interpreted these opinions according to criteria which are no doubt very well intentioned , but which can at best be described as hasty , in light of the audience which took place in the environment committee with the scientists responsible for the opinions .
in fact , dehp , the phthalate so far considered the most dangerous to human health , has been declared by the international cancer research association not to be classifiable as a carcinogen in humans .
furthermore , we should bear in mind that , in order to establish the toxicity of any product , the dose and the exposure time of that product must be defined .
furthermore , there has been much less research on the substitutes for phthalates than on the phthalates themselves .
if this ban is adopted - and we can support it , above all if there is a supposed risk to children - we will also support amendments nos 11 , 13 and 24 because the commission should amend this directive in the event that the scientific committee approves the use of methods of measurements for practical purposes .
more research is needed so that the long-term effects on health of the different phthalates can be accounted for thoroughly .
if a good deal of phthalates were banned with no clear justification , the toy industry would seek refuge in other pvc plastic softeners , about whose long-term effects there is even less knowledge than phthalates .
what the toy is used for cannot in itself be a determining factor in deciding which phthalates can be used and which cannot .
it is best if we simply do not buy these products .
mr president , this report requesting banning the use of phthalates in some soft pvc children 's toys is flawed in many ways and rests on a dubious legal basis , given that the chairman of the scientific committee for toxicity , eco-toxicity and the environment , professor bridges , when he appeared before this parliament 's committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy on 23 may , stated : " it is hard to see how it " - the ban - " would come under a scientific interpretation of serious and immediate risk " , which is the required criterion for the ban imposed in december .
the commission seems to have ignored its own scientific committee on the basis that some member states are imposing their own ban .
it is particularly galling that , of the six named phthalates to be banned , five are not even used for children 's toys and only two are suspected on the basis of unreplicated tests on rats .
this whole business contrasts markedly with my request for restrictions to be placed on the use of mobile phones by young children , in a formal question to the commission under the same precautionary principle .
a recent uk government report has recommended restrictions to child use of mobiles as a developing brain is more sensitive to electromagnetic radiation .
therefore i call again on the commission to use the precautionary principle consistently or admit that the whole thing is a politically motivated exercise with powerful commercial interests at play , undermining the precautionary principle and risking turning it into a farce .
the commission 's temporary bans have no legal basis .
the commission may introduce an emergency ban where there is a clear and immediate danger , but no such danger exists with phthalates .
compare and contrast our position on phthalates with our position on tobacco .
tobacco , we are told , kills half a million people each year in the european union but do we ban it ?
honesty and transparency have been sacrificed to expedience .
migration tests for phthalates are currently under development and will probably be available within months .
to be meaningful the precautionary principle should be invoked only when there is a clear and demonstrable risk .
the commission has also made extensive efforts to find a solution to the phthalates ' question .
following discussions about the risks of pvc toys containing phthalates and the opinions of the scientific committee on toxicology , ecotoxicology and environment , the commission took two decisions simultaneously last autumn .
any interventions here actually concern the first decision , not necessarily this proposal for a directive .
the commission 's proposed directive consists of two elements .
the first element is a ban on the use of six phthalates in toys intended to be put in the mouth of small children .
the proposal provides not only for the protection of children 's health , it also addresses an internal market issue .
the proposal is based on the various opinions of the scientific committee , and it is a considered application of the precautionary principle and consequently a proportionate measure .
it introduces a ban for the products which potentially pose the highest risks , that is for the toys intended to put be in the mouth , and a less stringent measure - labelling - for the products not intended for mouthing but where a risk cannot be excluded .
the commission is not able to accept those amendments of parliament which would widen the scope of the proposed ban to cover plasticisers other than the six named phthalates , or to cover other toys than those intended to be put in the mouth .
nor is the commission able to accept the amendments which would extend the scope to cover toys destined for older children .
we think that these various proposals cannot be justified on the basis of the risks either defined in the opinions of the scientific committee or by the application of the precautionary principle .
the commission can accept in principle the amendments which would prohibit the use of perfumes in toys for children under three years containing the six phthalates .
it can also accept amendments which would bring forward the review of the directive and widen the scope of that review .
to summarise our point of view , the commission can accept , at least in principle , amendment nos 2 , 4 , 5 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 18 , 24 and the commission rejects amendment nos 1 , 3 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , revised 17 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 and 25 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
it is already a highly technical and unwieldy system .
the product label will give the consumer rudimentary but crucial and useful information on the meat being purchased .
we now have a situation which i shall explain in simplified terms .
after the first reading in parliament , the council approved a common position .
this common position incorporates most of the amendments made by the european parliament .
the monitoring system has been strengthened .
minced meat is , in any case , already connected to the animal from which it derives with the arrangements which we have in the regulation and the other matters are technical and production matters and we did well not to change the wording of the regulation .
the committee on the environment voted by an adequate majority to insist that the text be amended .
if mr papayannakis wants to express a personal opinion , he should have the freedom to do so .
in the last two lines i expressed my personal opinion , with a great deal of chagrin , so as not to have to take the floor again as a speaker .
for the rest , i should like to assure our chairman that i have a great deal of respect for procedure , perhaps more than many other fellow members , both on this and other matters .
mr president , this legislation on the labelling of beef has two distinct aspects .
in this instance labelling can enable the public to be alerted without inducing panic , and facilitate the tracing back of contaminated beef to the shop , slaughterhouse or farm where the problem started .
secondly , labelling will identify the country or countries of origin of beef .
the bse crisis shone a spotlight on the possible health risks associated with beef .
some countries , like france , have a whole-herd slaughter policy which may reassure consumers , despite its lack of scientific basis and a risk of underreporting .
the united kingdom , on the other hand , which has a higher level of bse incidence at the moment , removes all animals over 30 months from the food chain , as well as adopting a whole raft of other measures .
in fact those in france who have studied the subject in depth may well decide to buy british as the safest and tastiest option .
a bony holstein steer would be in the same category as a champion charolais but that prime animal 's twin sister would be in a different category solely because of its sex .
if france wants to continue with its scheme alone , then i would not want to stand in its way .
we are working on a very tight timescale on this legislation , which is due to come into effect on 1 september .
i do not subscribe to the argument that parliament should abdicate its constitutional right to improve this proposal because others have failed to initiate the legislative process in time .
mr president , this proposal has a long history .
the committee has always kept a clear priority and has insisted upon it both to the council and to the commission : namely to have the sharpest , best-defined route of traceability on safety grounds that we can get for mince as well as other forms of beef .
it was for this reason that it threw out at first reading the superfluous requirements about maturation times , much as chefs might have wanted them , and category of animal , which did nothing for traceability , added cost , and increased the disaffection of many member states and of those who will have to implement this proposal .
the commission knows why .
i urge the house to reaffirm its position at first reading and to exclude a form of compulsory category labelling which is entirely optional for member states , - a form of labelling we should point out which we do not have in detail .
we want the best and most economic route to achieve it and amendments nos 3 and 5 do that .
there is only one way to regain the consumers ' trust and that is by guaranteeing the quality of the products .
after all , in the event of a crisis or scandal , traceability allows you to identify the problem straight away .
in my view , confidence in a product can be instilled by providing the consumer with reliable , but above all comprehensible information on the quality of the product they intend to buy .
the agreement reached by the eu agriculture ministers on a europe-wide beef labelling system was not such a major achievement .
the work in the committee on agriculture and rural development was in fact much more demanding than the result before us .
the content of all the measures approved is to be modified so that proof of meat ' s origin is valid as a guarantee in order to apply environmental control procedures and if necessary impose sanctions .
the community labelling system quite rightly aims to enhance transparency of production and marketing conditions for beef , and in particular to improve certainty as to its origin .
the last 16 years , since the first outbreak of mad cow disease , have demonstrated the importance of production for consumer confidence .
we also need to move quickly and , in the interest of producers and consumers alike , ensure that there are not any legal gaps .
we need to take account of all operators of every size , especially small and medium-sized operators , of whom there is an abundance in this sector , scattered throughout our countries , creating jobs and often using animals or cuts from different origins .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , once again , having done so on 16 december 1999 , we are addressing the problem of identifying cattle and the problem of labelling .
when five german lander wanted to protect their consumers , you instituted infringement proceedings against them .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , some of the amendments tabled water down the substance and the objective of the council ' s proposal for a regulation on beef labelling .
the implementing provisions for this regulation are being enacted under the committee procedure .
that means that tomorrow we will have to vote on a legal text whose precise content is unknown .
even the commission cannot tell us exactly what form these implementing provisions will take .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , may i remind you that we have been talking about beef labelling since 1997 .
but we tried this here in parliament ten years ago , and that is why i want to clearly remind some of you again that labelling has nothing to do with the safety of a product .
the other issue is consumer information and the consumer ' s right to choose .
and when he says that we in this house have brought forward the date it is to come into force .
if the council , in its infinite wisdom , which is often a mystery to me , believes that it has to amend the common position so that it is not the same as the text debated at first reading and the text parliament approved with the commission ' s agreement , and if the council therefore makes a decision at the initiative of one member state and with the somewhat reluctant agreement of other member states , than that really is something new for us !
so my attitude towards the commission , which has otherwise become positively affectionate in recent years , is rather more critical in this respect .
mr president , commissioner , in speaking previously to this house i have pointed out that there is a tension in the proposed regulation between ensuring traceability for public health purposes and providing useful consumer information .
i very much hope that parliament will follow the environment committee 's lead in removing category from the compulsory scheme and that the commission and council too will agree not to impose this additional unnecessary burden on producers and consumers alike .
in previous debates here i have supported the principle of having a clear set of rules for appropriate labelling information on beef and beef products .
of course , we must have clear information permitting full traceability from farm to plate .
there is no doubt or controversy about that , but controversy has surrounded the proposal that category of animal be included .
in judging the value of label information , i believe that its relevance to food safety must be foremost in our minds .
in a recent exchange of views within our political group here in strasbourg , commissioner byrne and his cabinet officials stated quite clearly that there was no food safety benefit arising from the categorisation proposal .
in relation to country or member state of origin , could i ask commissioner fischler to clarify whether , apart from the compulsory information that we are discussing here , information regarding the area of origin , such as scotland or the orkney islands for example , can be displayed prominently on a voluntary basis ?
mr president , commissioner fischler , ladies and gentlemen , in addition to the many negative effects of mad cow disease , one positive effect is the fact that it has induced the european union and the member states to adopt more vigilant , detailed legislation to ensure food safety and protect honest producers in the strategically important beef sector .
although the protection of consumer health is by far the most important criterion , it cannot be our sole objective in establishing an efficient system for the identification and registration of bovine animals during the production and fattening stage and a labelling system based on objective criteria during the marketing stage .
it is important to understand that all initiatives which protect honest european community producers - and they are without a doubt the great majority of producers - need to be promoted .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , beef labelling was actually conceived as a quick way of regaining the public ' s confidence in beef after a string of crises and scandals .
there have been two deadlines , first december 1999 and now the present deadline of 31 august 2000 .
as the proposal before us does not guarantee that , it is not just our right , it is our duty as members of the european parliament to adopt amendments .
when i then hear that in italy , for example , the technical requirements for this system are not even in place yet , and that the same applies in other countries , then i wonder why there is all this rush if the system has not been implemented anyway .
i believe that you can achieve implementation of this regulation by 1 september if you accept our amendments .
commissioner , please accept the amendments and we will then have something workable in place by 1 september .
mr president , many aspects of the common position we have here reflect parliament ' s position at first reading , and this demonstrates the council ' s willingness to work with parliament in order to achieve a positive and rapid outcome in this area , which is so important for european consumers .
the council will now have to remove the provisions relating to category of animal at its meeting in mid-july if it does not want to risk the regulation not coming into force on 1 september this year .
this is not in the interests of consumers , and i therefore call on the house to reject amendments nos 4 and 6 .
mr president , commissioner , the council has adopted the european parliament ' s amendments on the labelling of beef products .
the result is a victory for consumers , and not just them , but the whole beef sector chain : the producers , the processing industry and the organisations representing the beef trade .
mr president , the introduction of the eu beef labelling is a further step on the road to traceability and in the present climate a prerequisite for consumer protection and public health .
i come from a country which exports over 90 % of its entire beef production and quality and consumer satisfaction have always been a priority .
the bse crisis , and later on the dioxin crisis , focused our attention on the safety of our food .
the commission proposal within the context of labelling beef follows on from temporary legislation dating back to 1997 .
the label should contain information on the animal ' s region of origin , where it is born , fattened up and slaughtered .
in the context of this debate , i feel that i must stress once again the extremely sensitive nature of this proposal , and call upon all the community institutions to act responsibly in order to make it operative as soon as possible and avoid legal gaps .
mr president , commissioner , guaranteeing public health is the objective of one of today ' s most important areas of legislation .
i am certain that the council and parliament can reach a good compromise on minced meat , in so far as parliament adopts amendments 4 and 6 which guarantee consumers information about where the minced meat comes from and when it was produced .
the council ' s common position , together with parliament ' s six amendments , constitute legislation of benefit to agriculture and consumers in the eu .
beef labelling is an important stage in the process of rebuilding consumer confidence .
yet the compulsory labelling system is supposed to take force in all member states as from 1 september 2000 , thus finally replacing the voluntary system .
the beef chain from producer to consumer can be very long , and the supply chains in member states vary widely .
the committee took an important decision in rejecting the category of animal labelling proposal .
in cases where the animal was bred and reared in another country , the information might be totally misleading for the consumer , and in countries where stage two is now in force the situation as it is could only deteriorate .
for example , finland ' s national beef labelling system also now includes information on where the animal was bred and reared .
the basis of this discussion is consumer protection , especially with regard to the bse crisis we lived through in europe .
you can of course always revisit everything , but i think that we now need labelling of beef and beef products as a matter of urgency , by which i mean as from september this year and not as from january next year .
the commission has not yet clearly presented its proposals on category here , but i think it will have to adopt a simple and clear approach .
descriptions such as ' veal ' or ' beef ' are sufficient , and anyone who wants more information should also be able to obtain it .
mr president , i fully subscribe to and take as read what has been said so far in relation to the identification and traceability of beef and all beef products .
yesterday the committee on the environment voted by 37 votes to 13 for the five amendments before us today - a clear , decisive vote right across this house from colleagues in all different groups .
i would say to the commissioner , please accept our amendments in relation to this area .
there is no need to confuse and mislead the consumers of europe on a compulsory basis , because the voluntary labelling system which will be driven by competition , pride in product and consumer demand will add anything that a compulsory category label might otherwise require .
if we are now going to insist on country of origin for mince , why cannot we have country of origin for the larger pieces of beef from 1 september , or whenever ?
mr president , commissioner , this proposed regulation and derogation of regulation ( ec ) no 820 / 97 has a first heading , which nobody is talking about , which provides for a system of identification and registration for beef based on earmarks , passports and computerised support which guarantee its traceability .
the second heading establishes an obligatory system of labelling of meat and two stages for its implementation .
in the voluntary period for application of regulation ( ec ) no 820 / 97 , 36 specifications have been approved in spain in order to put it into practice , and i can assure you that this has given the consumer confidence and contributed to the recuperation of consumption , which dropped considerably as a result of mad cow disease .
what matters most to consumers , particularly in the light of the recent food crises , is to know where the animal was born and where and how it has been fed throughout its life .
furthermore , this regulation lays down obligatory minimum requirements and there is always the possibility of voluntary optional labelling .
mr president , i would also like to concentrate on this issue of category of animal labelling .
this is very sloppy , very amateur and unacceptable as a way to treat this house .
it is extra bureaucracy and red tape - which is probably why my own government in the uk has supported it .
but it is not in the interests of consumers , nor of the industry and , specifically , it is not in the interest of small abattoirs which would have the greatest difficulty in dealing with it .
finally i ask the commission and the council to take note that we welcome the principle of labelling beef by country of origin and that we call on the french presidency to set an example by making an immediate commitment to accept all beef so labelled from all eu countries and let the consumer decide .
mr president , commissioner , can i first of all say i very much welcome this opportunity to follow the debate on this issue , but quite frankly i think it has tried our patience for a long time and most of us would like to see it resolved as soon as possible .
therefore , we are drawing up a law giving the consumer the right to know what he is buying and at what price , according to principles of transparency , clarity and information .
the work on the traceability of all the information regarding the animal ' s country of provenance and country of birth and , in particular , where the animal was fattened , is therefore excellent .
timing has always been vital in this area , and it still is .
you all know that the introduction of the compulsory labelling system had to be deferred last december because agreement could not be reached within the time frame available .
this deferral expires on 31 august , which in practice means that it runs out at the end of this month , because parliament does not sit in august and no further sittings can be called .
before i talk about the amendments tabled for tomorrow ' s vote , i would like to make a couple of brief comments about the council common position approved by the council on 6 june .
this took place on 3 may .
once a number of further changes to the text requested by parliament had been made , it was possible to reach an agreement based on which the following agriculture council approved the council common position .
it was only possible to achieve all these joint solutions between the council and parliament because the member states agreed that no more national beef labelling schemes would apply after 2002 .
there are now amendments to be considered in plenary sitting , and approving some of these amendments would have far-reaching consequences , above all in terms of timing and as regards the adoption of the regulation .
for example , as several speakers have noted , two amendments on labelling minced beef have been tabled .
this issue has been scrutinised in great detail both here in parliament and also by the council .
one of the two new amendments reiterates the view that producers of minced beef should give precise details of the origin of the beef they have processed .
ladies and gentlemen , given the industrial conditions under which minced beef is produced nowadays , this would quite obviously be asking too much .
this demonstrates that the regulation will also have a similar impact .
if the worst came to the worst , it could even lead to some companies , especially in the smaller member states , going bankrupt and the market for minced beef being completely renationalised .
and you cannot convince me that a polish cow imported into austria would be a problem for austrian consumers .
because i can tell the honourable member that if a consumer buys minced beef in a butcher ' s shop in austria , he has the piece of meat minced in front of his own eyes , and in that case there are no problems either with origin or anything else .
if you start interfering in that , then companies like this will use products originating solely in their own country and nothing else .
i do not therefore believe that this new proposal would improve or add to information for consumers .
i therefore suggest that we should stick to the provisions on minced beef as laid down in the common position .
this is also intended as the basis for introducing categories in this case .
if we were to gear our decision-making to when it occurs to the last member state that it is now ready to establish technical requirements , then we would be gearing the process to those who are dragging their feet on compulsory beef labelling .
the market will in fact penalise those who were not prepared to establish the technical requirements for beef labelling promptly .
i would therefore ask you to bear these considerations in mind when you vote tomorrow .
the matter of raising conciliation will be after the vote tomorrow .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at noon .
parliament explicitly supported this initiative in its contributions to the extensive consultation process which the commission launched through its green paper on innovation in europe in 1997 .
we need a community patent in order to stimulate innovation , which is a key factor for growth , competitiveness and job creation in europe .
our industry , as well as our research and scientific community , have stressed for some time now the need for a patent which is affordable , valid throughout the community and which offers legal security .
the community patent will co-exist with , and complement , existing systems by offering a more attractive alternative for those businesses , both big and small , operating within the internal market .
this will reduce the uncertainty linked to fifteen different national legislations and , of course , after enlargement , many more .
legal certainty will be considerably reinforced by the creation of a centralized judicial system which will guarantee the quality and coherence of case law relating to community patents .
the creation of such a centralised jurisdiction requires a change to the ec treaty .
finally , our proposal will help to reduce considerably the costs of patents in europe by not requiring supplementary translations of the patent once it has been delivered in one of the three languages of the european patent office .
previous attempts to create a community patent , in particular through the luxembourg convention of 1989 , failed because of a lack of ambition on the two key issues : firstly , the cost and secondly , the litigation .
we must convince member states of the need to change the treaty to create a centralised jurisdiction for community patent litigation .
mr president , commissioner , the proposal for a regulation on a community patent gives us the chance to review cooperation , as you have just said , between the european patent office and the community institutions .
we must not skimp on this question , especially now that we are introducing a community patent .
i warmly welcome the proposal and hope that the igc is ready to make the necessary changes to the treaties .
but i would like to ask a specific question concerning the process in epo .
mr president , i would like firstly to congratulate the commissioner .
as he has said , this is probably the most ambitious internal market project we are currently dealing with and i am happy to say this on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , and as rapporteur on this issue .
it is ambitious , commissioner , because , in addition to what you have said , there is a fundamental reason , based on the principles of the internal market , for having a community patent .
if we want our internal market really to be a domestic market for companies and consumers , the current fragmentation suffered by patents , resulting from national borders , makes no sense .
having said this , it is an ambitious and difficult project , because , as you have mentioned , it requires a change to the treaty and to the constitutions of at least four or six member states .
on the first question , the commission is aware of the concerns that have been raised in france and elsewhere about the directive and in particular about possible inconsistencies between two paragraphs of article 5 of the directive .
may i stress that in my opinion there is no contradiction between the first two paragraphs of that article , the wording of which i believe relies heavily on suggestions made by this parliament .
the first paragraph provides that the human body at various stages of its formation and development and the simple discovery of one of its elements , including the sequence or partial sequence of a gene , cannot constitute patentable inventions .
however the second paragraph of article 5 states that an element isolated from the human body or otherwise produced by means of a technical process , including the sequence or the partial sequence of a gene , may constitute a patentable invention , even if the structure of that element is identical to that of a natural element .
here the invention arises from the isolation of a particular gene from its natural surroundings or by its production by means of a technical process .
a note setting out the commission 's position on this issue has been placed on our website .
our proposal on a community patent , which is the subject of the discussion this afternoon , does not affect the existing regime , which is governed by the directive of 1998 .
i think , however , that it could have been achieved in a different way and without creating a community patent .
one question that is important to deal with here in parliament , and that will definitely be something that affects the linguistic diversity within the eu , is also whether we will guarantee equality between small and medium-sized enterprises that operate in all parts of our union .
when we recently discussed the research white paper , we all took the view that it was vital to move forward on this topic because it was important not only to do very good research in europe , but also to optimise the conditions for its industrial exploitation .
so on that account i welcome commissioner bolkenstein 's statement .
the word ' centralisation ' is unfortunate in this context because it suggests a single centre of what is already a polycentric community .
my group would be very unhappy about such a proposal .
it seems to us that copyright is the right way to protect software and that introducing patents in this sphere would be unhelpful and contrary to good legal principle .
the european patent is not to be confused with the community patent .
the european patent is a basket of national patents , so an inventor would apply for a patent , for example , for benelux , france and germany , five countries out of 15 .
we are not concerned here with any geographical centrality - although i must admit i do not know whether luxembourg is or is not in the centre of the european union .
let them use their capacity to enlighten small and medium enterprises about what is going on in munich and what has been published in english , french or german .
in that way they can stimulate and help the small and medium enterprises existing in those respective countries .
the question then arises : does the commission have room for manoeuvre in this respect ?
mr president , commissioner , i too would like to congratulate you on presenting this proposal .
indeed we all hope that in the interests of the competitiveness of the european union , this unending community patent saga will now have a happy ending .
that is why it was right - and i would like to specifically support you here - not to overburden this proposal with sensitive issues such as patent protection for biotechnology products .
i would like to ask him four questions .
i do not think we should adulterate the quality of the patents delivered by the european patent office and therefore we should maintain the threshold as it is .
the average cost of european patents is three times the cost of an average japanese patent and five times the cost of an average american patent .
mr de clercq says why can we not have five languages .
there is a european patent convention and 15 member states have signed the convention but a number of other states have also signed it so the commission cannot tell the european patent office what its language arrangements should be .
lastly , when enlargement takes place the union will become bigger , obviously , and the community patent will then apply to the countries that have acceded to the european union .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0532 / 00 ) .
the commission considers that any solution to the complex issue of preservation of traffic data should achieve a fair balance between the different needs and interests of those involved , while fully ensuring fundamental human rights with regard to privacy and personal data protection .
on the one hand , privacy protection authorities have considered that the most effective means of reducing unacceptable risks to privacy , while recognising the need for effective law enforcement , is that traffic data should in principle not be kept only for law enforcement purposes .
on the other hand , law enforcement authorities have stated that they consider the preservation of a minimum amount of traffic data for a minimum period of time necessary to facilitate criminal investigations .
furthermore , industry will have a key role to play in contributing on a voluntary basis to the process of creating a safer information society .
users should have confidence in the safety of the information society and feel protected from crime and from infringements of their privacy .
in the same context of the e-europe initiative , as well as in the multiannual action plan on safer use of the internet , the commission plans to support a number of actions aimed at stimulating the use of the internet and promoting security and confidence among the users .
this not only applies to the eu institutions and member states , but also to the consumer and industry , so that we do not find ourselves in a situation of inconsistency in which one hand is doing something relating to the eeurope initiative , while at the same time we are doing something else in connection with crime .
in feira it is precisely consumer confidence that is being identified as a key factor for the development of e-commerce .
it is not the intention of the commission to do anything in secret generally and more specifically , in this area .
but as you can imagine , in this new field we have to address the need to reinforce security on the basis of the subsidiarity principle , in the sense that we have to recognise that each member state is entitled to adopt its own national legislation to guarantee law enforcement at national level .
our approach is to guarantee minimum common levels of law enforcement at european level , which does not prevent member states introducing more stringent or national legislation .
the presidency report to feira indicated that the conclusions of cologne and helsinki could be implemented without it being legally necessary to amend the treaty unless the council 's decision-making powers were to be altered or the treaty 's provisions regarding the weu needed to be amended .
the presidency has suggested that the issue of a revision of the esdp provisions in the treaty should remain open to examination as required before the nice european council .
what is clear is that the military headline goal agreed at the helsinki european council will require a concerted and coordinated effort by all member states .
but it may be helpful to distinguish between two component parts of the overall european security and defence equation , the petersberg tasks of peace-keeping and peace enforcement on the one hand and territorial defence on the other .
all eu member states have agreed this and are ready to contribute to it .
the excellent record of the european neutrals in the field of peacekeeping and crisis management operations has come very much to the fore in the new european security context .
all four member states which are not also members of nato are contributing actively and constructively to the development of cfsb in general and to the european security and defence policy in particular .
their contribution to the last igc was indeed crucial to the inclusion of the petersberg tasks in the new treaty .
finally , i have no doubt that their contribution in this area - materially as well as in the ongoing discussions shaping the new structures of cooperation will continue to be both active and ambitious , be it in the military or non-military dimensions of conflict prevention , conflict resolution and crisis management .
mr president , commissioner , i thank you for your full reply .
what is being transferred is the petersberg tasks alone , with of course the institutional and administrative mechanisms which are at the disposal of the european union .
there are various possibilities about what will happen to the collective defence clause but it is not , given my responsibilities , really a question for me .
question no 28 by ( h-0555 / 00 ) : subject : international criminal court the commission , and particularly the commissioner for humanitarian aid , played an important role in the setting-up of the new , permanent international criminal court ( icc ) in june 1998 .
however , to become a reality , the rome statute must be ratified by 60 states .
however most member states will ratify the convention during this year , including some already this summer such as germany , austria and the netherlands .
the commission supports ngo initiatives that promote the establishment of the icc .
in 1999 about eur 1.5 million was allocated to such activities in line with the budgetary comments for budget line b7706 of chapter b77 .
the brenner is one of the crucial transit routes via the alps and is therefore a good example of the need to act in a balanced way , with regard to both railways and roads , in order to protect the environment and , at the same time , guarantee the free movement of goods .
as regards the railways , the commission - as the honourable members know - supports the measures adopted by the member states to develop and implement the brenner railway project .
the brenner high speed railway line has been included on the list of maximum priority community projects and has received considerable community funding via the trans-european networks .
with regard to the roads , we must stress that an increase in road traffic in no way automatically implies more pollution .
for example , the eco-point system has shown that the emissions of polluting gases from lorries in transit through austria have dropped despite the increase in the number of journeys made .
i consider that this proposal could be a pilot solution for the new projects and the concept of european union transport as a whole .
however , i hope that , before concluding the period set for the 14 essen projects , the brenner project will be under way .
therefore , until the implementation of the agreement with switzerland - and i hope that will be next year - which has been ratified by the swiss people , an agreement which will undoubtedly open up alternatives to the current routes and will allow some of the north-south traffic to use certain corridors through switzerland , there are not many alternative routes , especially because certain routes have had problems with tunnel accidents in recent times .
as to the specific question relating to an article in a turkish newspaper on the 22 january , i can say that there is no community funding involved in what this article relates to .
written confirmation has been received from the commission 's representation office in ankara that the article in question makes no reference to european union or any external source of funds .
what bothers me is the fact that the hurriyet , which is , i believe , the most widely read turkish newspaper , did not meet with any denial on the part of the turkish government and , as we all know , freedom of the press is something of a problem in turkey .
it has highlighted the close and complex interaction between government policies and the environmental impact of livestock production , and identified a large number of technologies which are available to mitigate the negative effects in all different production modes , provided the appropriate policy framework is in place .
we adopted in the community already in 1989 a directive on the protection of animals kept for farming purposes .
as to the problems related to genuinely industrial-scale activities in this sector , we are working with the group of other donors and countries involved whom i mentioned , in order to do this as sustainably and acceptably as possible .
the mutiny which took place in 1996 in the central african republic caused considerable hardship and personal danger to a number of people working there .
i would unfortunately have to put this one in the category of cases showing what some of the problems are between the services in the commission .
a little more than eur 10 million are currently under implementation .
if the evolution of the situation should require , these additional funds then can be mobilised .
planning of future assistance has to take into account the volatility of the situation on the ground .
bearing in mind that a quick return of all the displaced persons currently residing in ingushetia becomes more and more unlikely , it will also be necessary to duly take into consideration an adequate follow-up to the on-going operations in this area .
however , to be perfectly objective , i do realise that , since this principle was introduced in 1989 , difficulties have arisen as regards the transmission of information to the commission by a number of member states , from the point of view both of the methodology used and the regularity and frequency of the reports .
in view of these problems and in order to solve them , the council decided , at the commission 's proposal , to simplify the control and application of additionality for the new programming period starting this year and ending in 2006 .
most member states have sent in appropriate information , especially regarding funding .
it is true , mr nogueira roman , and there is a text with which i must comply , stating that the cohesion fund is not subject to additionality requirements .
it is not subject to this principle because , may i remind you , the cohesion fund was and still is there to help less developed member states catch up and , in numerous cases , accede to monetary union .
that is one part of my reply .
i must admit that there is a weakness in the regulation as regards possible sanctions for countries which do not comply with this principle .
that is why i put in so much effort , in a preventive sense , when we approve the community support frameworks , when we approve the spds , when i meet the ministers who come and see me , when i go and see them in the field , almost every week in some region of europe , in stating my attachment to a number of principles .
however , in application of article 11 of the general regulation , the commission makes and will continue to make approval of community support frameworks , spds for 2000-2006 and mid-term approval and reprogramming conditional upon our departments being sent information on the principle of additionality and compliance with it by the member states .
i admit that there is a weakness from the point of view of sanctions for those who do not comply with additionality .
so it seems to me a little bizarre that we spend ages trying to build up exactly correct structural maps in the full knowledge that nothing under the additionality principle actually guarantees that the member state will increase expenditure in the region in question .
in this specific case , i said ' a weakness ' .
we can confirm that the principle is being applied at national level and , at the same time , that it is not being applied in a region where it is needed .
nonetheless , i must also say that the regulation does not allow me , on this precise point , to issue instructions .
i can do no more than demonstrate that i am keen to enter into dialogue and that i am available , in the case which you have pointed out to me and in every other case , to do so as actively as possible , while at the same time complying with the general regulation of the structural funds .
question no 36 by ( h-0528 / 00 ) : subject : new structural fund programmes and biodiversity the commission is negotiating the new 2000-2006 structural fund programmes .
how can the commission guarantee that biodiversity and the natura 2000 network are protected and not threatened ?
i personally sent these guidelines to each of the member states on 28 march .
because these guidelines were only recently adopted - when the community support framework for portugal was approved on 14 march - and the new programming period 2000-2006 is only just starting , i am honestly not in a position to quote specific examples .
i am talking about putting these new provisions into practice in specific member states ; let me also tell the honourable member that , to date , the overall situation concerning the submission of lists of natura 2000 sites to the commission is unsatisfactory , at least in five member states : germany , france , ireland , belgium and the united kingdom .
the commission has drawn the attention of the greek authorities - i personally have done so twice on two visits to athens within the space of nine months - to the need to set up efficient administrative structures before community appropriations are transferred .
the most important thing is to set up management authorities and , as a matter of priority , the management authority for the community support framework .
the commission has welcomed the intention of the greek authorities to adopt a new specific legal framework by the autumn , to regulate all these matters .
i personally - since i shall be in greece for an official visit to athens and crete in october - shall have an opportunity to specify and verify this point .
we expect and we hope , mr hatzidakis , that these points will also be quickly finalised .
the commission is well aware of the problems , especially those which you have just pointed to in connection with the operational nature of the management organization unit .
as far as more efficient management is concerned - over and above what has already been done under the previous community support framework , - i would remind you that the greek authorities have agreed to draft a bill adapting administrative practice to the rules of the structural funds .
this law is based on the provisions included in the community support framework .
the computer system for integrated management will also need to be fully operational .
so i shall be checking with the greek government that everything is in place at the level of this new community support framework .
and the framework to be implemented must of course include a proper evaluation system for each region , especially proper management and disciplinary systems , as well as the principle of responsible decentralisation .
question nos 38 , 39 and 40 will be replied to in writing .
we will proceed , late , to the last 20 minutes of questions to commissioner wallstrom .
as the author is not present , question no 41 lapses .
question no 42 by ( h-0521 / 00 ) : subject : reclamation work in dublin bay reclamation work is taking place in dublin bay in an area submitted for designation as an spa last july under the wild birds directive .
however , according to documents secured by an ngo , dublin bay watch , following a request under the freedom of information act , it emerged that objections made by a local authority were rejected by duchas on the grounds that ' the proposals to designate an extension would proceed unless a scientific case was made ' .
while included in the 1999 proposal for extension of the spa , the area in question was omitted when the extension was finally adopted at the end of 1999 .
by way of background : the 1999 proposal for extension followed a commission request to the irish authorities to enlarge the spa .
the legal deadline for completing irish spas expired in 1981 and the commission has for some time been concerned that the irish spa network remains incomplete .
in april this year the commission notified a letter of formal notice to ireland under article 226 of the ec treaty in which it drew attention to the general failure to complete the irish spa network .
the commission is not aware of any intention to use community funds in relation to the port reclamation project .
this is just one more example of the way that the irish government is behaving in relation to its obligations under eu directives .
i welcome the recent decision on fining greece and i would like to see the same thing happen with the irish government if they fail to comply with directives .
question no 43 by ( h-0529 / 00 ) : subject : management of toxic waste environmental organisations in greece have alleged that toxic and hazardous waste is being buried without any controls .
the commission has very little information on waste management in greece .
greece did not report on the implementation of waste management legislation between 1989 and 1997 .
however at the end of last year greece answered four questionnaires regarding the implementation of four waste directives .
the most important aspects concern the absence of management plans according to article 7 of directive 75 / 442 on waste , article 6 of directive 91 / 689 on hazardous waste and article 14 of directive 94 / 62 on packaging and packaging waste , the failure to transpose directive 94 / 62 and transmit data according to article 12 concerning the packaging waste industry , the absence of a programme according to article 6 of directive 91 / 157 on batteries and accumulators containing certain substances and non-compliance with articles 4 and 11 of directive 96 / 59 on the disposal of pcbs and pcts .
a first report according to directive 94 / 67 on the incineration of hazardous waste has to be provided for the period 1998 to 2000 by the end of september 2001 .
there are two codecisions , one dated 8 july 1999 and one dated 13 april 2000 .
there is an additional recent opinion sent on 11 august last year and there is a letter of formal notice sent on 10 april this year for failure to apply a number of articles properly .
secondly , i should like to say in all honesty that , as a greek citizen , i am shocked by what you have said .
i should like to put two questions to you .
of course the greek government and maybe also the local authorities should be asked how this has been handled .
from the commission side we can continue the legal proceedings and the legal procedures as they are set out for the commission , but i think what is most effective in cases like this is open debate in the european parliament .
according to the report from the european environment agency on the state of the environment , the topic centre on land cover 1998 estimated that there are 750 000 polluted or potentially polluted places within the eu .
directive 96 / 61 concerning integrated pollution prevention and control , the ippc directive , states that member states must take all necessary measures that are required in order to restore industrial land that is no longer in use .
this directive must be enforced completely before november 2007 .
as far as the past pollution of land is concerned , the proximity principle ought to be applied , because national , regional or local authorities are in the best position to deal with these issues .
i would like to thank commissioner wallstrom for her reply .
as i have already said , we see this as a very great concern also from an economic point of view for many of the candidate countries , where this is often mentioned as an immense problem .
in order to be able to clean up in the best way possible , we need to consider what sort of pollution is involved and what the local conditions are like .
the manufacture and storage of pyrotechnic substances is covered by council directive 96 / 82 of 9 december 1996 on the control of major accident hazards involving dangerous substances , the so-called seveso ii directive .
moreover , the seveso ii directive contains the new provision recognising that the implications of major accident hazards should be taken into account in the land use planning policies of the member states .
member states shall also ensure that all competent authorities and planning authorities responsible for decisions set up appropriate consultation procedures .
a review of the seveso ii directive is already under way .
this process will be carried out in close cooperation with the member states , the european parliament and other interested parties .
annex a contains the provisions concerning the packaging and labelling of dangerous goods and annex b contains the provisions concerning the construction equipment and operation of the vehicle as well as the minimum training requirements for the driver .
the application of this legislation guarantees a high level of safety for the transport of dangerous goods including explosives .
the tragedy in enschede , in the netherlands , illustrates this all too clearly and in portugal , which i referred to in my question , 159 houses in the village of lanhelas in the province of minho were hit by the explosion .
we will be looking at this as soon as we have evaluated all the information about these accidents .
since the time allotted to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions nos 46 to 78 will be replied to in writing . ( the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m .
mr president , commissioner wallstrom , we thank you for being here at this time in the evening .
by adopting a system of environmental management , companies - whether they be industrial or service companies - learn to integrate environmental considerations into the normal management of the company , discovering the many and significant advantages , not only environmental but also economic , which this offers them , amongst other things , because they improve their competitive position .
it therefore seems to me very significant that this regulation is currently being reviewed and that new elements are being incorporated into it which are extremely useful for the environmental improvement of processes , services and products .
the creation of more incentives for european companies to have access to the system , the participation of interested parties - especially workers - , the strengthening of reliability vis-a-vis third parties and an increase in the transparency of information are the main objectives of the amendments which i took up on first reading in parliament and which were approved unanimously in the environment committee .
nevertheless , the committee also approved certain amendments which were contrary to the opinion of the rapporteur , and i have continued to disagree with them .
in fact , the large plants , as stipulated in the ippc directive , will continue to be obliged to be included in the emas register , since they will have to abide by the environmental legislation in force - amendment no 12 - which obviously includes compliance with the ippc directive in the cases where companies are affected .
i would also like to insist on amendments nos 41 and 50 , which my group would be prepared to accept as long as it is made clear that the word ' representatives ' refers to people chosen as such within each company and in no event to organisations , whose participation would hinder and delay the process of adopting the system .
i hope that tomorrow other groups will offer oral amendments in this respect .
mr president , our experience of the community eco-audit scheme has been very mixed .
in germany and austria a great number of businesses have taken part in it , whereas the uptake from businesses in other member states has been very low .
the aim of the present revision must therefore be to make the eco-audit scheme more attractive .
my group also attaches particular importance to the participation of employees and their representatives .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , commissioner , the intention behind emas is an excellent one : encouraging companies to have more respect for the environment .
seven years after its creation , however , emas is a success only in some countries .
i mean amendments nos 5 , 10 and 17 on the best available technologies , the bats .
on the other hand , in the spirit of compromise , we are ready to support amendments nos 43 , 44 and 45 , which link these best available technologies , from the environmental viewpoint , with conditions that are economically and technically viable for businesses .
on the other hand , we reject amendments nos 41 and 50 , because more restrictive measures here again threaten to discourage a large number of candidate firms .
it is essential that this element , and the amendments in relation to best available technology , be supported by parliament .
if we are serious about trying to encourage firms in the right direction then we have to encourage the best available technology .
the changes proposed by the european parliament where best available technology is concerned should mean that all organisations which participate in emas should be forced to apply best available technology .
the concept of best available technology , which is expressly defined in the directive relating to coordinated measures for preventing and limiting pollution , is nonetheless only relevant to industry .
for example , the european parliament itself would not be able to participate because best available technology is not a concept which can be applied to public institutions .
it might be said that it is a minimum requirement that environmental legislation should be respected .
the purpose of emas is to help organisations to perform better and to exceed that minimum .
if the european parliament maintains its amendments , the basis of which is that compliance with environmental legislation must be guaranteed , emas ' s role will be in danger of changing .
i would emphasise that the common position is flexible in this respect .
account can , therefore , already be taken of special cases or special problems .
the commission has carefully examined the 50 amendments which have been tabled and is able to approve 11 of these .
the commission is therefore delighted to be able to approve amendments 1 , 2 and 19 ( 3 ) .
the commission is also very pleased to be able to approve amendment 4 in principle , because it will help ensure that employees are more involved , something which has already been taken into account in the review of emas .
the commission is therefore able to approve amendment 16 in principle , if it is extended to include all information and not only data .
however , emas ' s area of application extends to include more than physical assets , something which must be clearly shown in amendment 22 , which the commission is able to approve in principle .
unanimity and openness are also important principles for emas .
these are amendments 5 , 6 , 10 , 17 , 43 , 44 and 45 , according to which organisations must apply best available technology .
the commission cannot , therefore , approve amendments 7 , 8 , 9 , 11 , 12 , 14 , 15 , 19 , 21 , 23 , 26 , 27 , 28 , 29 , 31 , 33 ( 1 ) , 34 , 35 , 37 , 41 , 42 , 47 , 48 , 49 and 50 .
the commission is unable , therefore , to support amendments 13 , 30 ( 2 ) , 36 , 38 and 46 .
the commission is pleased to supply information to the european parliament upon request , but is unable to approve amendments 18 and 20 because there is a lack of resources for this purpose .
thank you , madam commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
the precautionary principle that is enshrined in the eu treaty , however , makes it imperative to establish a limit value at which the health risk is extremely low .
the main aim of the proposed legislation is to establish limit values for atmospheric concentrations of benzene and carbon monoxide in order to improve the quality of our air and to avoid , prevent and reduce the adverse effects of these substances on human health and the environment .
the proposal was presented by the european commission in december 1998 .
the finnish presidency made a determined effort to use the new legal scope offered by the treaty of amsterdam in order to have this proposed directive enter into force back in december 1999 after the first reading , with the amendments adopted by the european parliament .
i need hardly say that our group supported the amendments which emphasise the danger to certain sections of the population and which regard the proposed environmental measures as surpassable minimum standards .
our group accepts this common position and can support it as it stands .
i am aware of the significance of this directive in terms of the development and enhancement of european environment policy .
its significance lies not only in the fact that it is important to have a limit value for this particular carcinogenic substance but also in the fact that it sets a precedent for the future regulation of other carcinogens .
eventually , it became clear to us that in this case , it would be useful if we , as european citizens , were to deal with this on the basis of a kind of equality before the law , offering the same level of protection to the same citizens .
mrs breyer ' s report went a long way towards further improving the commission ' s proposal at first reading , which took place in december of last year .
the limit values which have been set for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air are based upon the world health organisation ' s latest recommendations and are aimed at achieving a high level of protection of people ' s health throughout the union .
the commission approves amendment 2 , which expressly mentions the internet .
the commission agrees in principle with this requirement , but the common position expressed in article 8.3 of directive 96 / 62 / ec , that is to say the framework directive on air quality , already obliges the member states to compile this information and make it available to the public .
in order for the commission to be able to approve amendment 3 ( 1 ) , the latter must therefore be substantially reworded .
amendment 3 ( 2 ) contains a demand for free public access to the member states ' documentation concerning the selection of places from which to take samples .
i turn now to amendments 1 and 4 which both concern the commission ' s review of the directive in 2004 .
amendment 1 may therefore be approved in principle , but must be reworded .
against the background of the results of a current investigation into benzene , mainly the southern member states considered that they were uncertain of being able to achieve the limit value of 5 g / m3 by 2010 .
only through an addendum to article 7.3 , in which it is expressly stated that the commission can propose further extensions in the light of the results of the 2004 review , was it possible for this agreement to come about .
from a purely legal point of view , this clause does not lead to the commission ' s right of initiative being limited or otherwise affected , but may be seen as an important part of the final compromise in the council .
the commission considers that the compromise to which this could lead would involve unnecessary delay in adopting this important directive in which , for the first time ever , limit values are established for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air .
the commission is therefore unable to approve amendment 4 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
the members of the committee agreed with me that a recommendation is far too weak an instrument in this instance .
the commission is very worried about this report because it recognises that if we persist in insisting on a directive rather than a recommendation , the whole thing may founder in the council .
i believe , and my committee agrees with me , that the primary responsibility for enforcing european union environment legislation should be firmly lodged where it belongs , with the member states .
we cannot understand the commission 's readiness to propose only the minimum possible .
at the moment there are currently nine other environment cases which have come back to the court of justice for a second time because countries have ignored earlier judgments .
there are no less than 157 cases still pending and i regret to have to say that in many cases the european commission has not been able to act , to bring cases to the court of justice , because it does not know what is happening in member states as the countries concerned have not reported back to brussels on what they are doing about legislation .
a recommendation will do no good .
i hope that the european commission has the courage , and i mean courage , to accept the european parliament amendments .
i hope that the european commission has the courage to go into the conciliation process arm in arm with the parliament against , and it will be against , the council .
the first issue is that we want equal and effective enforcement of environmental legislation across the european union and we must all agree to that principle .
the second issue is the clear conflict here between the parliament and the council .
any student who wants to understand conciliation procedure or codecision procedure has a nice straightforward case study here .
the bad implementation of environmental rules has nothing to do with the lack of such rules and directives .
some member states already have well-developed inspectorates or agencies , and the guidelines will ensure that they operate them in accordance with common standards without necessarily having to change their systems that much .
for those member states which do not , the recommendation will be helpful to enable them in the first instance , with the possibility of community funding for eligible member states , to develop their infrastructure and capacity .
we have already achieved some progress in the area with the impel inspectors ' exchange programme and the other work that impel has done on inspections , monitoring frequency of inspections etc .
this proposal should therefore be viewed as the first step in an ongoing programme , and the experience gained in this operation will help us to consider at subsequent stages how to broaden the nature , scope and application of the minimum requirements .
the proposal requires member states to report back on the operation , and i will take a personal interest in this .
in that case we will have failed those member states most in need of assistance and guidance , and the consequence will be no change in the status quo and no improvement in those member states ' implementation .
for these reasons the commission cannot accept any of the proposed amendments relating to changing the form of the proposal from a recommendation to a directive .
however , if the proposal is to remain in the form of a recommendation , the commission can accept in principle amendments nos 2 , 10 , second part , and 15 , second part , in relation to point 9.1 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation ( eec ) no 3258 / 86 on the protection of the community 's forests against atmospheric pollution [ com ( 1999 ) 379 - c5-0076 / 1999 - 1999 / 0159 ( cod ) ] , and ii .
proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation ( eec ) no 2158 / 92 on the protection of the community 's forests against fire [ com ( 1999 ) 379 - c5-0077 / 1999 - 1999 / 0160 ( cod ) ] .
parliament queried the regulations with the european court of justice on 30 april 1997 , and this was resolved on 25 april 1999 .
the european commission and the member states committed themselves , on an international level , at the ministerial conferences on the protection of the forests in helsinki , in 1993 , and strasbourg , in 1990 , to the continuous monitoring of the damage suffered by the forests .
the member states have established networks of systematic monitoring and observation posts for intensive and continuous monitoring of the forest ecosystems .
this proposal asks that the commission be assisted by a standing committee on forests , as it is in many other areas ; that it present an analysis of the application of this regulation with regard to its ecological , economic and social aspects , as well as a cost-benefit evaluation ; that an amendment be included on the mediterranean forests as a specific ecosystem for the southern countries and because of its importance in combating desertification and erosion .
it has just reduced the amount by 6 million for the fight against pollution and 20 million for the prevention of fires , without taking account of the rise in the cost of living index or the incorporation of new countries , austria , sweden and finland , which almost double the area of forest in the union .
therefore , our proposal would be to increase that budget to 44 million and 77 million for pollution and fires respectively .
the committee on budgets is once again presenting amendments in which it wants no kind of notification to appear with regard to the budget for implementation .
mr president , the importance of forests in the european union is clearly illustrated by the fact that they cover 36 % of our territory and employ 2.2 million people .
in several areas of the european union , the forests are often the only viable economic option , because of poor soil or the lack of other natural resources .
however , given forestry ' s unquestionable interrelationship with agriculture and its territorial impact , it is extraordinary that the commission has not been more ambitious in its proposals and that the council has historically been so short-sighted .
on the contrary , in some ways it has moved backwards , as demonstrated by this community regulation on the protection of forests .
with regard in particular to the aspect which is of great concern to my country - the regulation on combating fires - it is regrettable that whereas in the period 1992-1996 the european union benefited from an annual sum of eur 14 million , this annual sum is now to be reduced to eur 10 million , that is , by 40 % .
therefore , mr president , i would like to suggest to the council and the commission that they increase this amount and , if possible , create a community system for information on forest fires .
we have calculated that , if we let every speaker overrun for just 20 seconds , we should still be sitting here at one o 'clock in the morning .
the basic regulations date from 1986 and 1992 , and now the budget for implementation is lower , despite the fact that , since the accession of the nordic countries to the european union , the area of forest is greater .
we are also in a much worse situation in terms of fire prevention , because of climate change and the drought which we are suffering in many parts of europe .
mr president , commissioner , i live in the middle of the nordic forests , which form part of the enormous area of europe covered by forests .
i could spend all night and all of tomorrow talking about the history of the forests and about the enormous importance europe ' s forest areas are going to have in a future sustainable europe .
however , this report concerns the threats to our forests .
mr president , it is indeed gratifying to note the steady increase in the attention devoted to forests and to the state of their health .
the most southerly part of mediterranean europe is threatened by a process of physical desertification , in the literal sense of the word .
this issue of forests does not only concern the countries of the south , whose territories are affected , in the same way , of course , that the defence of the nordic forests is not only of exclusive interest to the nordic countries .
mr president , the content of the regulation being discussed here is based on the situation that existed at the end of the 1980s , but since then things have changed greatly .
the regulation on the subject of the community ' s forests must be reformed , but parliament cannot undertake financial commitments until the present regulation expires in 2001 .
the situation is so different between the north and the south .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , as you know , the commission has presented two proposals for the amendment of the regulations on the protection of the community 's forests against atmospheric pollution and against fire .
the purpose of these proposals is to adjust both regulations in the light of the judgment of 25 february 1999 in which the european court of justice declared that article 130s of the ec treaty - which has now been renumbered 175 - was the proper legal basis for these instruments .
it was also necessary to bring the annual budgetary framework for these two initiatives into line with the amount of funds actually allocated by the budgetary authority in the period from 1997 to 2000 and with the amounts already earmarked in the preliminary draft budget for the year 2001 .
the commission takes the view that this procedure would be inconsistent with the decision of 28 june 1999 on the comitology .
the commission will present its proposals for their revision before the end of this year .
it has no problems , however , with amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 and 16 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
proposal for a decision of the european parliament and the council on the implementation of a training programme for professionals in the european audiovisual programme industry ( media - training , 2001-2005 ) [ com ( 1999 ) 658 - c5-0059 / 2000 - 1999 / 0275 ( cod ) ] , and ii .
proposal for a council decision on the implementation of a programme to encourage the development , distribution and promotion of european audiovisual works ( media plus - development , distribution and promotion , 2001-2005 [ com ( 1999 ) 658 - c5-0119 / 2000 - 1999 / 0276 ( cns ) ] .
against this background the media programme , following on from its predecessors , media i and media ii , is expressly designed to address this deficit in the circulation of european works and has three main support targets : the training of professionals in the audiovisual programme industry through media-training and the development and marketing of audiovisual works through the media plus programme .
i do wish to point out , however , that in some areas we have proposed amendments which we consider to be extremely important .
the commission is proposing eur 400 million for a five-year programme in the audiovisual domain .
four hundred million was the budget proposed by the commission back in 1995 , and unfortunately the council rejected that proposal .
whoever wants to grasp the opportunities offered by the digital revolution must be prepared to make the requisite investment .
the increase we are proposing is actually moderate ; it would take the total budget to 550 million - 480 million for media plus and 70 million for media- training .
the mobilisation of private capital is perhaps our key demand along with the pilot project relating to the european investment bank .
the second area is the question of the legal basis .
this should also be made clear in the programme and be reflected in the legal basis .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we are discussing a very important report here today .
it will not enable us to develop a genuine european audiovisual policy to challenge the american hegemony in this domain .
where the european union can intervene , as it is already doing in media plus , it should be able to continue doing so with a greater volume of financial resources .
we should like more money , and we should like this addition to the legal basis .
we are now entering the third round of support programmes for european films , and this support remains absolutely vital , for the european audiovisual industry has undoubtedly been in crisis for quite a long time .
during production and afterwards , an adequate promotion and marketing budget is generally lacking .
the programme draws on the lessons learned from the experience of the preceding programmes , but although the council and the commission are well aware of the present situation , they are still afraid to take the plunge .
this report therefore marks a new attempt to put this financial instrument on the agenda as an accompanying measure .
european film production is an important part of the eu ' s cultural and media policy , and the liberal group considers that it is important to support the european film industry which is exposed to a very great deal of competition , especially from the american film industry .
it is the european parliament ' s and the eu ' s task to establish the correct framework and conditions for a cultural policy of this kind , but it is not a proper part of our remit to spend an exorbitant amount of taxpayers ' money on cultural policy .
we therefore think that the commission ' s proposal for a total overall budget of eur 400 million over the five years is both realistic and appropriate .
it is similarly with certain reservations that we shall be voting tomorrow in favour of the proposals to set up a european guarantee fund and to broaden the financing options through cooperation with the european investment bank .
the media programmes were previously administered by the commission in cooperation with the media committee as the advisory committee .
i fear that this change will make it still a little more difficult to administer the media plus programme , so it is also with a reservation that we shall be voting in favour of the proposals tomorrow .
we of the group of the greens / european free alliance have called for attention to be given to the smaller countries , to the difficulties which smaller producers encounter in smaller countries or in countries which belong to a smaller linguistic group , and we particularly appreciated this being taken into account in the adopted amendments .
from a structural point of view , greater investment was necessary in the audiovisual sector to create fresh job opportunities for young unemployed europeans and to stem the european union brain drain to third countries , particularly the united states of america , where greater investment leads not only to better working conditions but also greater job opportunities .
finally , considering development of investment in the european cinema industry to be extremely important , the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy calls upon the member states to pursue a policy of making sums reinvested for the creation of new jobs tax-deductible , and stresses the importance of establishing a guarantee fund as one of the measures necessary for the development of the independent audiovisual industry which encourages new talent and develops a cultural content of european tradition .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in a europe of economic and monetary union , it could have been an advantage for the media / media plus programme to have article 157 ( industry ) of the treaty as its legal basis .
now , reading the preview of this part-session produced by parliament ' s press department , i note that the media plus programme is not one of this week ' s highlights .
culture is not paid much attention in this parliament , as in all the european institutions .
like others members who have spoken on this subject , i hope article 151 , on culture , can also be a legal basis for this audiovisual programme .
we urgently need to have audiovisual works distributed in every country in europe .
emphasising the cultural importance of the programme does not mean neglecting its economic importance , of course .
it seems that neither cultural necessity nor economic objectives carry any weight in favour of implementing this ambitious programme .
people may say the budget has been increased compared with the two previous programmes , media 1 and media 2 .
the latter committees - the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy - have done something significant in approving the proposal to change the legal basis of media plus , inserting article 157 ( industry ) and article 151 ( culture ) in order to give equal value to industry and the audiovisual sector .
the commission has already indicated through press agencies that it opposes this amendment .
but in putting this before the house we have to ask ourselves two very important questions .
i also believe that this industry will be the spearhead of this century , in the same way as coal , steel and the infrastructure of railways were the impetus for the development of the revolution in the 19th century .
it is absolutely vital that we get in there as a series of institutions committed to building this industry .
the second reason is that we have to , in this increasingly homogenised era of global audio-visual content , get into the area of freedom of speech , freedom of expression and freedom of diversity .
that is where we in this house have an exemplary responsibility in performing our role in the development of this particular sector .
my own group is very committed to the budget that has been laid out in the report .
madam commissioner , on a certain occasion in september , you said that we should declare war on hollywood in order to strengthen the european film industry .
the only problem there is that our best warriors emigrate to hollywood .
commissioner , malicious gossip has it that you could be open to challenge , in purely legal terms , for awarding the european film prize in cannes on behalf of media plus , since the prize may have been funded from the media ii budget .
as directly elected representatives of the people , we also have a legal and moral right to be part of the decision-making process in the field of cultural policy .
mr president , i would like to say that i am pleased with the media plus document .
mrs hieronymi , furthermore , has been very open to all suggestions and it seems to me that , in relation to other programmes , it contains an innovation which the commission has also contributed to , that is , support for marketing and distribution .
nevertheless , i would like a further step to be taken because , in my view , the media plus document follows a principle which is rather like that of arts cinema : it supports in particular the script and the production when these days we know that post-production accounts for 60 % , 70 % or 80 % of good films .
the problem , honourable members , is not just whether films produced in the us or films produced in europe dominate the european market ; the main problem lies with the content and quality of the films that we and our children watch .
the european union treats culture in general and audiovisual media in particular as a commodity , as yet another commercial activity for big business and as a competitive market where the only winners are those who are best equipped to turn the market mechanisms to their advantage , rather than those who have something new or something of a higher quality to offer .
this approach is quite evident in the proposal for the media plus / media training programme , from the very first paragraph of the introduction and from article 1 of the proposal for a decision , which aims to allow professionals in the industry to take full advantage of the european and international dimension of the market .
mr president , i congratulate the rapporteur on the work that she has done .
there are some things that the public sector cannot do and some things the market cannot do .
certainly the public sector cannot make good films .
whenever we try it in the united kingdom , any support from the government tends to mean that the film is going to be a flop .
i must pay tribute to organisations like , in britain , the national film school in beaconsfield , which needs help to do its work .
finally , it is very easy to write a long speech .
a higher budget will also make it possible to involve the central and eastern european countries to a greater extent in these programmes .
thank you very much , mrs hieronymi .
mr president , as you know , the commission sets great store by the european parliament ' s opinion , especially with the culture council coming up on 20-21 july , because it is my job to let the ministers know the views of the european parliament .
in this way , discussions between the commission and the council can progress usefully , not just on the basis of the commission ' s proposal , but also on the basis of the position expressed by parliament .
do not expect me to launch into a speech on the importance of european cinema .
you know my views on the subject ; i share yours , but we are here this evening to produce the best possible draft .
all the amendments bear witness to a broad consensus in parliament about the way the commission has approached the media programme .
we both agreed that , in order to develop the content industry in europe , risk capital needs to be made more available and instruments established to aid investment in audiovisual content .
i also agree that community policy on audiovisual media should have a wider scope but should be developed as a complement to national and regional policies in this field , and synergistically with these .
secondly , one of the acknowledged successes of the media programme is its adaptation to the needs of businesses in the sector , especially smes , through financial and training support mechanisms suited to their practices and strategies .
it is therefore essential for the implementation of media plus to be based on professional expertise and for the support mechanisms to be accessible to the greatest possible number of businesses , in all the countries and regions making up our community .
first of all , in the ' vocational training ' section , i am in a position to accept in full , or in substance , 37 of the 48 amendments presented today .
another factor is the exclusion of initial training : amendments nos 12 , 110 , 111 and 112 .
another problem is the exclusion of the training areas to be supported by the economic , financial and commercial management training programme : amendments nos 113 and 114 .
my fourth point is the inclusion of training for technical professions in audiovisual media , amendment no 18 , and radio , amendment no 33 .
on the other hand , i am in favour of opening up media training actions to radio professionals , which may constitute a compromise between amendments nos 33 and 34 .
finally , there are two declaratory amendments on encouraging fiscal measures , amendment no 4 , and intellectual property , amendment no 9 .
i am willing to accept 57 amendments , 80 % of the amendments tabled by parliament , literally or in spirit .
i can make the list of these amendments available , mr president .
i am forced to express reservations on eleven of the amendments tabled .
four of them , amendments nos 53 , 65 , 69 and 93 , are declaratory and outside the scope of the decision .
it will come as no surprise that my reservations relate , in particular , to amendments nos 44 and 54 on the legal basis .
article 157 ( 3 ) is the legal basis proposed by the commission , and parliament is seeking to add another legal basis , the article on culture .
ladies and gentlemen , i understand your position , but i think article 157 relating to industry is the appropriate legal basis for this decision - as was already the case for media 2 - considering its subject matter , its aim and its content .
establishing an industrial policy for audiovisual media does not mean we forget about cultural diversity , because the aim of the culture industry is precisely the achievement , on the ground , of cultural diversity .
but the choice , as legal basis , of the article relating to industry conforms to consistent case law which lays down that in the framework of the system of community powers , the choice of the legal basis of an act must be founded on objective factors capable of jurisdictional control and such factors notably include the aim and the content of the act .
media plus is a programme intended to strengthen the competitiveness of the audiovisual sector , but i must stress that one recital , recital 11 , highlights , if that were still necessary , the cultural dimension of the audiovisual sector , in accordance with article 151 ( 4 ) of the treaty .
i note your concerns and i really hope that the next revision of the treaty will offer a new framework , as well measures enabling the european parliament to be fully involved in decisions on audiovisual policy .
as regards amendment no 87 on the budget for the second section , my comment is the same as for the amendment on the budget for the training section .
as regards amendment no 103 on radio , media plus cannot be extended to other sectors given the financial constraints , but i have already made one concession , in the training section , to including radio in the programme .
on amendments nos 115 and 116 , regional and minority languages , the commission is , as you know , very concerned about respect and promotion of linguistic and cultural diversity .
moreover , this concern is taken into account throughout the media plus programme , primarily through positive discrimination measures in the support mechanisms in favour of professionals operating in countries and regions with low production capacity and with a limited geographic or linguistic scope .
amendment no 115 would create a sub-programme within the programme .
but amendment no 116 actually does nothing more than take up and specify the measures which are already scattered throughout the programme .
ladies and gentlemen , mr president , beyond these few points of disagreement , which are minimal , i want to express my satisfaction at the cooperation and the many points of agreement between the commission and parliament .
the debate is closed .
quality assessment , self-assessment of schools in particular , is a key element in the development of quality education .
in my opinion , it is especially important to encourage member states to develop sound methods for assessment in education , bearing in mind that self-assessment is complementary to external evaluation .
moreover , it is important to stimulate cooperation between schools and various bodies , also at local and regional level .
finally , we reached general agreement in the committee on a large number of amendments .
we all know the eu has very limited responsibilities as regards education , but there are some places where the european union can give added value .
in some parts of the union - and i am quite willing to cite the united kingdom - we are not doing as well as we could .
there are very many bright youngsters who do very well in the schools , but 20 % of young people leave british schools without any qualifications at all .
i am quite prepared to believe that 15 heads , or 15 sets of data across the union , will help us achieve better quality in the schools .
in studying the educational systems of the member states of the european union we should draw on a profound knowledge of the practices and acquired rights in our various countries , because each of our countries has its own educational reality .
quality in education is a challenge for our society , but education must not become a focus for social operators who want to impose their personal aims upon it .
if an in-depth reform of the educational system is needed , it must involve all the partners in the system and , above all , it must not be rigid .
any child who is failing is expressing his unease in the educational institution , but also in society .
the fight against failure at school , in other words , against failure in society , is and must be a major concern for anyone with political responsibility .
there is no miracle cure , but there are battles to be fought .
let me just come back to a point that i raised myself in an amendment .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , there has been , as always , great harmony between the views of parliament and those of the commission .
the quality of education , and quality evaluation , are indispensable , as you have said , essential to being able to improve educational systems .
so we have to recognise that accepting quality control can sometimes be very difficult for education ministers , but it is indispensable , as everyone has said this evening , if we want to improve school systems .
i must also stress the very positive attitude of the portuguese presidency , which has moved this issue forward , and i join you in regretting that it has not been possible to complete matters at first reading .
but it is parliament ' s decision , and parliament ' s alone , to complete at first reading or to go further .
first , there has been a vast pilot project on quality evaluation , launched in 1997 , and the proposal for a recommendation is based largely on the conclusions we have drawn from that pilot experiment , of evaluation as instrument of improvement of the quality and role of european cooperation in this domain .
quality evaluation is essential if we want to make progress in the future , because improving basic skills will allow us to make a success of , and profit fully from , the opportunities offered our young people in the new knowledge society .
as you have said , the lisbon european council emphasised the importance of modern systems of education .
you know i have already started work on the elearning programme and we are now following up with the quality programme as i have already presented the first report on quality , based on sixteen quality criteria drawn up by the member states and oecd specialists .
for example , amendment no 40 invites the commission to define a plan for a follow-up in close cooperation with the member states .
in the same vein , i am delighted with amendment no 42 , which allows the commission to submit new follow-up proposals three years after the adoption of the recommendation .
other amendments aim to extend the political range of the recommendation and i am very pleased with them .
so that is the sense in which i accept amendments nos 17 and 18 , seeking to associate the candidate countries , as of now , in european cooperation as regards quality evaluation .
similarly , i agree in principle with amendment 36 which refers to the eurydice information network .
it is certainly true that the eurydice network , and in particular european unity , can support european cooperation as regards evaluation by making a common platform of basic knowledge available to the various players .
however , i think it is difficult to entrust responsibility for coordinating experience in this area to the networks .
besides , i think the reference to eurydice would be better placed in the invitations to the commission rather than in the part relating to the member states .
i am also delighted with amendments nos 21 to 35 , which clarify the invitations to the member states .
i hope with all my heart that the council will rally to that decision , which is the result of a very broad consensus between parliament and the commission .
the debate is closed .
mr president , it may be that president fontaine was unfamiliar with the british rules of protocol which obtain in such matters , but mr miller has no such excuse .
thirdly , we wished to congratulate president zedillo on having enabled mexican institutions to make this change to democracy .
certainly , mr lehne .
mr president , i am glad to have the opportunity to address the european parliament concerning the results of my work as european ombudsman in the year 1999 .
the annual report for 1999 covers the last year of the first mandate of the european ombudsman .
last year the ombudsman 's office received 1,577 new complaints compared to 1,372 in 1998 , an increase of nearly 15 % .
the number of inquiries opened rose from 171 in 1998 to 206 in 1999 , an increase of over 20 % .
during the first six months of this year , the number of new inquiries rose by 32 % over the same period in 1999 .
i do hope that the european parliament will support the ombudsman in seeking the resources needed to carry out the work effectively .
the proportion of the complaints outside the mandate even increased slightly , probably because we received a growing number of complaints by e-mail .
however in all , more of the e-mail complaints are directed against authorities of member states .
i am not sure whether they understood that this would mean the european ombudsman carrying out tasks currently belonging to the european commission as the guardian of the treaty , and to the european parliament as the democratic forum to which citizens may address petitions .
of these , we transferred 71 cases to the european parliament to be dealt with as petitions and advised a further 142 complainants of their rights to petition the european parliament .
in many cases , complaints against national , regional or local authorities could be dealt with effectively by an ombudsman in the member states concerned .
in every member state there should be a non-judicial body which can assist european citizens in conflicts with member states ' administration concerning their rights under european union law .
a further seminar is planned to take place in brussels under the belgian presidency of the council in the year 2001 in cooperation with the commission and with belgium federal and regional ombudsmen .
the regional ombudsmen and similar bodies will also be invited to brussels next year .
the ombudsmen and similar bodies in the member states have shown a positive attitude towards cooperation with the european ombudsman .
these doubts were unjustified because the community 's institutions and bodies have responded properly to the ombudsman 's work .
since the beginning , they have themselves settled the complaint to the satisfaction of the complainant in over 180 cases .
however , we did achieve one friendly solution in 1999 in a case where the commission and the council agreed that the complainant should be paid the amount due him for his work as a european union regional coordinator monitoring the palestinian elections .
if the institution or body concerned will not correct the maladministration itself , the ombudsman 's ultimate weapon is to draft a recommendation followed , if necessary , by a special report to european parliament .
five years ago , there were many people who said that the community institutions and bodies did not pay much heed to european parliament .
in two cases the ombudsman has made a special report to the european parliament .
i believe that the european ombudsman 's activities have reached the level that one has the right to expect of a body which is new and consists of 25 persons working in a fairly complex legal environment .
i would like to use this opportunity to thank all the community institutions and bodies for another year of constructive cooperation .
the aim of the committee on petitions itself is to provide a good and effective service for individuals within the european union and for civil society generally .
any individual , citizen , resident or group may petition parliament if they feel that community law or principles are not being properly applied at whatever level .
last year we received 958 petitions of which 492 were considered admissible .
we know we could provide a more rapid and effective service if member states could provide an equally committed response in replying to requests for information and explanation .
i would draw the council 's attention to points 8 and 10 of the report - if it was here .
some of our ideas are mentioned in this report .
we would also wish to use the experience of our committee members through their work on other committees of parliament to institute a rapporteur-style system for specific topics .
we consider as a committee that petitions are a valuable and empowering tool for democracy in what can often feel like a remote and anonymous institution .
in the report , the committee stresses that this jointly approved definition of " maladministration " also involves the right to inspect how the institutions have interpreted community law .
irrespective of the legal form the charter of fundamental rights will take , it will , in any case , be an expression of the member states ' common constitutional traditions which , in accordance with article 6 of the treaty , shall be respected by the union and therefore also by the institutions and public bodies .
the committee observes , therefore , that the ombudsman ought to play an important part in implementing a future charter of citizens ' rights .
the committee has also expressed its clear support for the fact that the charter of fundamental rights ought to contain rules which give citizens the right to expect good administration within the eu . " good administration " is the opposite of " maladministration " .
all these aspects have been central to the ombudsman ' s work .
these rights are prerequisites for the active citizenship that is necessary if the eu is to regain the confidence of its citizens .
the ombudsman has become renowned for his work for the wider public .
it receives complaints from citizens , as the two previous speakers rightly said , who believe their rights as eu citizens have been restricted .
as draftsman of an opinion on the right of residence , i would like to make a few comments on the specific problems in this area .
since the maastricht treaty there is a general right of residence , provided the individual concerned has adequate means of subsistence and adequate health insurance protection .
freedom of movement and right of residence can be restricted only for reasons of law and order , security or health .
experience has shown the committee on petitions that in practice the right to freedom of movement comes up against a great many problems because : ( a ) member state authorities are slow to transpose the rules of community law , ( b ) problems arise with the recognition of diplomas and qualifications in the case of specific professions , ( c ) the rules on social security have not been standardised , e.g .
mr president , the right to petition and to complain is not some recent invention .
but this right was always in danger of being changed , restricted or abolished .
no administration or institution is infallible .
my group congratulates the ombudsman on the work he accomplished in 1999 .
the line the ombudsman is pursuing has a lot of support amongst the citizens of all member states .
it is an indisputable fact , and there are several international scientific reports to prove it , that there is a crystal-clear connection between a high level of openness and transparency in the administration and a low level of corruption .
to summarise , the ombudsman fulfils a very important function .
mr president , commissioner , mr soderman , it may be well to remember that just a year and a half ago there was a debate in this chamber over whether we needed a committee on petitions in general .
i am very pleased to be able to say that the committee on petitions has again shown its indispensability , especially at a time like this , when we wish to enhance the status of the ordinary citizen in the european union .
secondly , i wish to say that at this stage nobody doubts that the committee on petitions and the ombudsman make an extremely important contribution to compliance with community law .
it is the committee which makes the institutions most visible to the citizens .
in particular , on 7 december last , president prodi undertook to find and propose legal and organisational solutions to give both internal and external candidates to commission competitions access to their examination papers .
would the ombudsman please inform us , in the same way that he has informed us that europol needs more time to comply with the recommendation , whether the commitment made by president prodi on 7 december to making papers available by 1 july 2000 has already been implemented or not .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i gather from the ombudsman ' s annual report that , as we have now heard , the main complaint of the citizens is about lack of transparency .
it was very good to see the respect in which the european ombudsman is held by his colleagues , the national ombudsmen .
with our chairman mr gemelli we are now looking at ways of making the petitions committee more effective and more efficient in the work it does on behalf of citizens .
it is important that citizens and the officials of the institutions know what is reasonable behaviour so that all have a standard to which they can refer .
mr president , i should like to start by congratulating the two rapporteurs on their interesting comments .
the third way is to strengthen and improve the role of the ombudsman , mainly by giving him easier access to all the documents needed in order to conduct an efficient investigation .
at the same time , the wealth of material in his report should be closely studied and taken as the starting point for the changes which need to be made to the modus operandi of the community institutions .
finally , we would like to request that , in a similar way to parliament in the codecision procedure , the committee on petitions may be permitted to present its own justification for certain decisions , and we call for amendment of the treaties in order to streamline the entire legal system and existing legislation .
mr president , mr soderman , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their hard , thorough and excellent work .
the more multi-cultural it is the greater the transparency , and the more democratic it is the more open it likewise is .
in order to respond to citizens ' expectations , adequate coordination between the committee on petitions , the european institutions and national authorities is essential .
greater account must also be taken by the other parliamentary committees of the work carried out by our committee .
indeed , the national authorities are the first to apply community law and it is indispensable for them to work in coordination with the european institutions , and in particular parliament and the commission .
first of all , it cannot be denied that this committee is not very well known , although its work is indispensable in strengthening the link between citizens and the european union .
finally , one of the strong points of the french presidency ' s programme is a europe that is closer to the citizens .
the work of our committee falls within this sphere and it is up to us to make this expectation a reality .
the reality of our society is that if governments and administrations had their way they would never appoint petitions committees or ombudsmen .
the petitions committee in particular is an important mechanism of access for the people of europe .
it can be seen from the report that it is the commission that is the subject of the majority of the investigations that have been undertaken , 77 percent to be precise .
i would like to highlight the fact that this report emphasises that all eu institutions and bodies must establish a code of good administrative behaviour .
the basic pillars of the work of the ombudsman are independence and transparency .
the principle of good administration must also be included in the eu charter of fundamental rights which is being drafted .
for that reason there has to be closer cooperation between the ombudsman and national and regional ombudsmen .
in this respect , both the committee on petitions and the ombudsman play a key role , on different levels and with different purposes , but they are both nevertheless essential to the improvement of the operation of the institutions .
secondly , it proposes a review of the examination procedures of the committee on petitions .
it is true that we sometimes take a long time to reply .
the commission is open to dialogue , both with parliament , and with the council itself , in order to reduce the time taken to produce replies and increase transparency and communication with parliament and the committee on petitions .
i believe that it is very important , in the relations between the commission , the ombudsman and other institutions and bodies , to systematically respect the institutional balance laid down in the treaties .
the ombudsman , in his report , has indicated that the number of complaints , investigations and inquiries over the last year have increased considerably , and this is simply the result of greater awareness of the institution on the part of the citizens .
if we compare it with other administrations , i believe that it compares very favourably and that we score highly in these areas .
with regard to the amendments of the statute of the ombudsman , the competent parliamentary committee must issue an opinion in accordance with article 195 of the treaty , and when parliament takes the initiative , we will analyse all the relevant issues .
mr raschhofer spoke about the draft regulation on public access to documents , which has been debated .
i should like to stress that this draft regulation is now before parliament .
the committee work can start .
members of parliament are a very important source of information for many citizens .
thank you kindly , mr soderman .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
mr president , we meet at a time when congestion in our skies has never been greater .
according to the statistics , the incidence of a 15-minute delay has risen from 12.7 % in 1991 to 30.3 % in 1999 and is still rising .
it is a fact that there has been a lack of investment in air traffic control systems .
whilst this pressure has been growing , we owe it to those working in the system to congratulate them and thank them for what they have done .
all this , then , has a detrimental effect upon the mobility of our citizens , and in terms of the economic and financial and social costs for our businesses and a wide variety of other people affected on a day-to-day basis by what is going on .
i would like to congratulate commissioner palacio for having the initiative to bring this to our committee in the terms that she did , and with the force and verve that she has shown , initially , in setting up the high level group , and also in the leadership that she has given to addressing this problem .
the council of transport ministers needs to take a political decision to address this .
it is up to individual nation states to decide , but they must decide to address this problem of the division between regulation of their airspace on the one hand and the air service management provision that could be offered by others or other organisations .
but above all we wish commissioner palacio , with our support , to press the council of ministers and all those associated with this to take urgent decisions .
mr president , i would like , if i may , to deliver very briefly a few comments on this report .
it seems obvious that we need to completely rethink the organisation of air traffic control in the european sky .
in this respect , the commission ' s initiative is commendable .
i have many doubts as to the conclusions of the report .
in this respect , the cellular , segmented organisation of the european territory must be retained and , in a way , improved .
indeed in paragraphs 4 and 5 we note again that our parliament has now decided on two occasions that the regulatory function is to be transferred to the european union .
nor is that in any way a problem .
we also note the lack of political will that exists within both the commission and the council , although it is worth perhaps reminding ourselves that this initiative started with the council in june last year when it requested the commissioner to bring forward this communication .
between 1986 and 1996 air traffic in europe doubled .
it will double again in the coming ten years .
what we want to hear perhaps from the commissioner today is a clear timetable from her as to the speed at which she will be acting in the months to come .
i urge colleagues to back the rapporteur 's proposal and i urge the commissioner to bring forward a very clear timetable .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , sir robert atkins has , in my view , compiled a sound report .
mr president , the report deals with the problem of increasing air traffic .
i want to focus on just one aspect of this report or , more specifically , on a major omission from it .
that causes major congestion problems but it also causes major environmental problems as well - not only the noise and pollution for people living around the airports but also the impact on global climate .
unfortunately this report fails to make the vital link between congestion and air traffic reduction and therefore misses a vital opportunity to address these problems in a lasting manner .
mr president , commissioner , i think there is some ambiguity regarding the expression " single european sky " , because air traffic control is in fact , as you are well aware , already a european field of activity .
there is already a european system for controlling the air space with eurocontrol and there is already a body , the central flow management unit , based in brussels .
the great proposal that is put to us for improving traffic consists of separating regulatory and control functions .
the separation of functions would lead to the liberalisation of air traffic service provision , establishing , as indeed the atkins report states , a liberalised internal market .
in france - and i am not trying to make france a model - there is a general directorate that governs everything and , in the past few years , investments have been made and air traffic controllers have been recruited .
there has been talk of the fact that there are too many aircraft in the sky , that one controller has too many aircraft to deal with , etc . , but we need only look at the united states of america , which is the most advanced country in the world in terms of aeronautics , where these problems are dealt with and , although they may not be completely resolved , adequate solutions have been found .
let us not disregard other air space users such as air-taxis , private companies and private users flying club aircraft .
mr president , commissioner , securing a place in the transport market is an uphill struggle .
eurocontrol has proven to be inadequate as a mechanism for managing air traffic .
the member states must overcome their perhaps justified anxiety as regards the management of their airspace and , at some point , must take a longer-term view of newly-emerging needs which goes beyond their borders and beyond the present situation .
i should like to close my intervention by reminding the house that , when the european parliament voted on the report for the intergovernmental conference , it took view that the regulatory operation of air traffic in europe , in our member states , should be taken over by the european union .
there is no doubt that air traffic control delays are a problem .
i hear that the average delay is said to be 20 minutes .
the report must consider all the issues involving air traffic and adopt a twofold approach as proposed by the commission .
it is the greatest cop-out in the world for airlines to say to passengers that the delay is caused by air traffic .
invariably they cause delays as much as air traffic .
we support the compromise that is made in point 8 with regard to eurocontrol .
finally , there are some tdi amendments with this .
i can only assume that the tdi group must ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , i would also like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , like the rapporteur and the previous speaker i think we urgently need to take the appropriate measures to tackle and eventually put a stop to the constant increase in delays in european air traffic .
sir robert atkins , for whose expertise i have enormous regard , and a majority in the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism believe the prime way to achieve this objective is through liberalisation measures .
liberalisation will without doubt increase the number of providers , but it will not resolve certain problems and will even create new ones .
in a peaceful and united europe there is not one logical reason for reserving a large part of airspace for the military .
fifthly , we do not need the commission to use its influence on national governments in the event of domestic industrial disputes , as called for in paragraph 14 of the report ; we need a smoothly running social dialogue between all the players involved in air traffic !
it is in the international negotiation of traffic rights that this concept of european air space ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , it has been noted that air transport is increasingly accessible to a greater number of our fellow citizens .
the desire to create optimum air traffic control in europe is based on good intentions , but why should the commission challenge the air policies of the member states and their bilateral agreements through a single air space ?
it is now for the council to take the necessary and urgent political decisions which will allow the single aviation market to be supplemented with a single air traffic control system .
another cause which makes the current system ineffective is the different organisation of the civil system and the military system , as well as the different standards of technical equipment on the ground .
there is a clear need to achieve more effective cooperation between the different users of the airspace , and i believe that that cooperation and a joint approach should be sought at european level .
lastly , madam vice-president , please take note that we are aware of your efforts and we will support you in the line you have taken .
mr president , i must express major reservations with regard to the atkins report as it bears the stamp of commercial interests concealed behind the best of intentions .
in actual fact , the airlines would like the air traffic control sector to be completely liberalised , not so much for reasons of safety , interoperability or reducing delays as to be able to access a market of air traffic control services that would enable the more powerful among them to purchase more expensive , secure slots and leave the problem of delays to other airlines and private aviation .
we all know that the considerable increase in air traffic is the main underlying cause of overcrowded and saturated skies .
these are the fundamental causes of air delays .
naturally , the single sky must be set up through a reformed eurocontrol and harmonised control services at european level .
commissioner , i hope that , in preparing the future directive on the single sky , the commission will be able to handle this matter by taking a calmer and more impartial overall view .
but how would subjecting air traffic control to the requirements of private profit possibly put an end to delays ?
it is in the interests of passengers and their safety , and in the interests of employees in this sector for air traffic control to remain a public service , dedicated exclusively to ensuring the smooth running of air traffic .
if it is necessary to put an end to national peculiarities with regard to air traffic management , and if it is legitimate to unify the european air space , this must be achieved by rejecting any idea of privatisation , competition , or quest for profitability , and we will vote against this report .
mr president , i really must congratulate my colleague , sir robert atkins of the british conservative party , on his most excellent report on the single european sky .
this proves beyond doubt that the overarching ambition of the european union is a single nation with its single national flag , its single national anthem , its single legal space , its single national borders and now the citizens of europe will soon be able to breath single european air .
however , after the failure of the single land policy , known as the cap , the single sea policy , known as the cfp , we can now look forward to a similar failure of the single sky policy .
but you have struck a real blow for the eurosceptic movement in the uk , sir robert , i congratulate you .
it is quite clear that the european transport council must take immediate action to ensure that the air traffic control decisions are applied by all member states europe-wide .
in addition , both airports and airlines need to look closely at their practices , as they too are responsible far too often for the high percentage of delays incurred .
