resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 17 december 1999 , and i would like once again to wish you a happy new year in the hope that you enjoyed a pleasant festive period .
the cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes comes before parliament on thursday and contains a proposal in paragraph 6 that a form of quota penalties should be introduced for countries which fail to meet their fleet reduction targets annually .
i want to know whether one can raise an objection of that kind to what is merely a report , not a legislative proposal , and whether that is something i can competently do on thursday .
thank you , mr segni , i shall do so gladly .
it is the case of alexander nikitin .
we know , and we have stated as much in very many resolutions indeed , including specifically during the last plenary part-session of last year , that this is not solely a legal case and that it is wrong for alexander nikitin to be accused of criminal activity and treason because of our involvement as the beneficiaries of his findings .
madam president , i would firstly like to compliment you on the fact that you have kept your word and that , during this first part-session of the new year , the number of television channels in our offices has indeed increased considerably .
agenda the next item is the verification of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the conference of presidents at its meeting of 13 january pursuant to rule 110 of the rules of procedure .
to this end , i would like to remind you of the resolution of 15 september , which recommended that the proposal be presented as soon as possible .
mr baron crespo , you were unable to attend the conference of presidents last thursday .
we have confidence in the commission and in romano prodi and , after a difficult procedure , as everyone knows , the vast majority of our group supported the vote of confidence in romano prodi and the commission .
we believe , however , that the commission 's strategic plan needs to be debated within a proper procedural framework , not only on the basis of an oral statement here in the european parliament , but also on the basis of a document which is adopted in the commission and which describes this programme over the five-year period .
we have said , very well , if the commission does not wish to introduce the 2000 programme as early as january then we will do it in february .
that is why we would recommend - and it is my impression that the commission is also open to this idea - that we hold the debate on the commission 's long-term programme up to the year 2005 in february - and i hope that the commission will agree on a programme before then which it will propose to us - and that , at the same time , in february we also hold the debate on the commission 's legislative programme for the year 2000 .
therefore , madam president , i would like to repeat that the commission has debated the action plan for the next five years and , when parliament decides , - this week if that is the decision - we are prepared to come and explain the programme for the next five years and , next month , the programme for 2000 , which is what we fully agreed upon .
thank you , mr poettering .
i therefore repeat the proposal that this oral question to the commission and the council should be retained so that we can find out , once and for all , the positions of these two bodies regarding the proposal which is relatively modest but which would give a clear message to public opinion , particularly after the tide of feeling generated by the failure of the seattle conference .
secondly , by adopting this directive we achieve a ) an increase in safety when dangerous goods are both transported and transhipped ; b ) a reduction in distortions of competition resulting from wide variations in national training structures and training costs and c ) equal opportunities for safety advisers on the european labour market .
the report looks at the issue of harmonising the examination requirements for safety advisors working in the areas of transportation of dangerous goods by road , rail and inland waterway .
the rapporteur has pointed out to the house that in its common position the council has accepted six of parliament 's ten amendments put forward at first reading and that the substance of parliament 's other amendments has been retained .
my group will therefore support the common position and looks forward to the enactment of the legislation which will provide us with yet another tool in our fight to make transport in the european union as safe as possible .
madam president , i would like to make a few comments .
if we look at the situation where safety advisers are concerned , in a number of countries it is compulsory to employ such safety advisers in companies as from 1 january of this year .
the process of increasing safety margins and safety guarantees in transport is a process which must be improved day by day .
finally , i would like to say that we have to consider safety in all types of transport .
the debate is closed .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road , which entered into force on 1 january 1997 , contains a number of transitional provisions which are only valid for a limited period of time , the term of validity being linked to the completion of specific standardisation work by the cen , that is the european committee for standardisation .
it merely prolongs transitional rules by postponing deadlines , deletes provisions which are no longer applicable , and lays down the procedures for a ) carrying out the ad hoc transportation of dangerous goods and b ) enacting less stringent national regulations , in particular for the transport of very small amounts of dangerous goods within strictly defined local areas .
a final amendment is intended to ensure that tanks and tankers put into service between 1 january 1997 and the entry into force of this directive may continue to be used provided that they have been constructed and maintained in accordance with it .
i hope my proposal will be taken into consideration in tomorrow ' s vote .
that is why we can only hope - and we should resolve all of this this week - that , in 2001 , we will finally have community regulations for the transport of dangerous goods by road so that we have a degree of legal certainty here and also so that our roads are a good deal safer .
the reason mr koch produced his sound report was because the work in the cen and within the united nations economic commission was proceeding none too expeditiously .
i would like to ask the vice-president if she is in a position to tell us today what the state of play is with regard to the efforts towards harmonisation being made by these two organisations , and whether the eu is in a position to hasten these harmonisation efforts , in accordance with principles that are as simple as possible .
a moment ago , mr vatanen spoke to us of lower temperatures , not of 20 degrees below zero , but of 40 degrees below zero .
we therefore accept the four amendments which have been proposed .
the debate is closed .
whilst , in the fifth report on the situation in the regions , unemployment was seven times higher in the poor regions than in the wealthy regions , the sixth report is already talking in terms of it being eight times higher , despite the fact that european structural funds are pouring into the regions .
hence , it will , of course , come as no surprise to anyone that the very preamble to the new structural funds regulation places great emphasis on the call for the funds to be implemented more efficiently and in a more concentrated manner in order to achieve the european objectives of high employment levels and sustainable development , to name but a few .
i may have my doubts as to whether this indicative instrument will actually succeed in achieving efficiency and increased concentration and in actually putting the european objectives into practice , but it is a fact that the guidelines will be of central importance to the negotiations for the community development programme .
mr president , our committee views these issues very differently and , to start , i will speak from the point of view of research .
i would like to draw people 's attention to amendments nos 1 and 2 which were agreed by the committee on employment and social affairs but not accepted by the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
these amendments deal with the social economy and the need to provide social risk capital and support financially local schemes to develop employment opportunities and strengthen social cohesion .
in the past , this parliament has viewed the social economy as an important potential provider of employment .
but the lack of specific guidelines here is particularly to be regretted , as the idea of linking social fund assistance to the employment strategy will be put into effect for the first time during the 2000-2006 programme .
agriculture only provides 5.5 % of employment in the union .
for this reason , one of the most important and essential objectives which we should set in the european union is to make efforts to create new jobs in rural areas , outside of the agricultural sector , in sectors such as rural tourism , sport , culture , heritage conservation , the conversion of businesses , new technologies , services , etc .
however , even though the role of agriculture is not exclusive , it is still essential , not only to prevent economic and social disintegration and the creation of ghost towns , but also because farmers play a fundamental role in managing the land , in preserving biodiversity and in protecting the environment .
it is important to prioritise general criteria for land planning and demographic equilibrium , and to bear in mind the conclusions of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the five fundamental issues , which have been only partly taken up by the committee on transport , regional policy and tourism in its points 16 and 17 .
if they do not , if businesspeople feel marginalised , if entrepreneurs cannot take part , not only in managing but also in receiving these funds , we will have missed an opportunity to attain our objectives more rapidly .
our group emphasises the importance of the principle of subsidiarity , the responsibility of member states and the role of local players in drafting and implementing programmes .
mr president , commissioner , as proof that this parliament has not yet overcome its role as a consultative and subordinate institution , the excellent report by a fellow member of my group , elisabeth schroedter , has not been able to reach plenary sitting because the plans for regional development for the period 2000-2006 for objective 1 regions have been sitting in the commission ' s offices for several months .
we need to consider it together , so that the new objective 1 programmes and the plans for regional development , which have been drafted before the directives come into force , can be submitted for revision and proper assessment .
while urban renewal in our cities is very important we must always strike a balance in our policies between promoting rural development and improving the lives of city dwellers .
the structural funds have played a key role in the development both of urban and rural parts of peripheral countries , mainly through the upgrading of roads , water treatment and related transport networks .
key eu programmes between 1989 , 1993 , 1994 and 1999 have certainly helped to improve the economic competitiveness of peripheral countries and objective 1 regions within europe .
in conclusion , while key infrastructure projects have been supported by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund , we should remember that the european social fund has played a very important role in helping the less well-off in our society .
consequently , i feel we must look to the future and establish guidelines for the mid-term review in 2003 , and thus have an influence on the second phase of programming set to follow 2003 .
the first is the harmonisation of national development policies and regional development policies .
finally , in this time of natural disasters , i would just like to mention the issue of the use of structural funds .
the commission , however , though bound to issue guidelines , does so only reluctantly and in a vague manner .
it is one of the steps towards a policy of employment and sustainable development .
mr president , i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work .
mr president , like my colleague mr evans , it is a particular pleasure to rise and make my first speech to this house on this very important issue , especially since i represent a part of the united kingdom , the west midlands , which has hitherto benefited from objective 2 funding in particular .
that way the much-trumpeted need for transparency in the use of these funds and the temptation to draw unnecessarily in the longer term on the local tax base in areas where such projects are located will be diminished and the european parliament will show how seriously it takes the need for such reform .
mr president , commissioner , i too would like to commend the rapporteur on her report , which is a meticulous and substantive piece of work .
however , i feel that we should be a little more concerned about the actual direction and outcome of the community ' s regional policy .
the union ' s economic and social policy is just as much to blame for that as its regional policy .
mr president , i would like to say a few words in order to highlight two points made in these reports which are of fundamental strategic importance to the way we see the union .
the first is the fundamental , central importance that we continue to give to the principle of economic and social cohesion .
we still feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the union ' s fundamental objectives .
mr president , first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur , not least for being willing to include in the report the suggestions we made .
mr president , commissioner , the guidelines are intended to help steer the member states towards achieving the reform objectives contained in the programmes .
i should be very grateful , mrs schroedter , if you would actually include this proposed amendment in the part relating to subsidiarity in your positive deliberations .
unfortunately , the excellent schroedter report did not take account of this criterion , despite the fact that there is considerable evidence to show - as we shall see later in the berend report - how , in fact , these funds are providing splendid assistance to the most backward regions in order to bridge the gulf that separates them from europe ' s most highly-developed regions .
they are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions .
it is particularly important to address those serious issues concerning urban areas , employment in rural areas , aid to agricultural regions and equal development opportunities for the islands of the european union and for the greek islands which , of course , comprise half of the islands of the union , as stipulated in article 158 of the treaty .
regarding the role and structure of these guidelines , mr hatzidakis , mrs schroedter and mrs mccarthy mentioned that the purpose of these guidelines is to assist national and regional authorities in preparing their programming strategy for each of structural fund objectives 1 , 2 and 3 as well as their links with the cohesion funds .
i myself took part in a meeting of the most remote regions on 23 november and , within the college , we considered that we would need several more weeks before being able to produce a report that dealt appropriately with the extremely serious problems and lived up to the expectations of these most remote regions .
as far as i am concerned - taking into account my own concept of the construction of europe and regional development policy in particular - this is a situation which i find unacceptable and i have every intention , as far as possible , with your support , of dedicating all the appropriations for which i am responsible to this improved social , human and territorial cohesion , particularly in order to prevent what i once called in this house a two-speed europe , a europe of wealthy districts but , at the same time , a europe of impoverished areas .
the third objective is urban and rural development , within the scope of a balanced territorial policy .
you expressed some concern about what might look like a lack of reference to this partnership , yet there is a clear reference to it on page 5 of the guidelines .
i should now like to respond briefly to a few of the comments you have made , ladies and gentlemen , and firstly on procedure .
on the subject of the role of the guidelines , mrs schroedter , you pointed out that this is the context in which guidelines on a number of european objectives , often very precise ones , should be provided .
the commission kept to the actual text of article 10 of the structural funds regulations , which stipulates that the aim of these guidelines is to provide member states with broad , indicative guidelines on relevant and agreed community policies .
you then mentioned , mrs schroedter , the section of the guidelines relating to urban and rural development , pointing out that urban development was not sufficiently taken into consideration .
it must , however , be stressed that the guidelines under discussion are related only to the structural funds , whose objectives 1 and 2 specifically adopt the diversification of rural society as a priority .
at this stage , i would simply like to say that i would like to see it integrated into the programming for objective 2 rural areas , in the way that the eaggf guidance section is for objective 1 regions .
i shall remind you that the commission is going to be approving the objective 2 zoning plans for france , sweden , austria and luxembourg tomorrow .
i feel this augurs well for effective cooperation between our two institutions , at this time when programming for the period 2000-2006 is being undertaken , good joint working practice , which is , mr hatzidakis , backed up by something i am very attentive to : observance of the code of conduct which links our two institutions .
the debate is closed .
mr president , commissioner barnier , ladies and gentlemen , the sixth periodic report contains a comprehensive and detailed description of the economic and social situation in the union ' s regions and of their development trends and represents , as i see it , a solid basis for the formulation of structural policy priorities at union level .
unfortunately , this european-wide development was due , in the main , to an increase in productivity and only partly to an increase in the level of employment .
a very important point to my mind .
we call upon those member states that have not yet submitted a satisfactory map of development regions to do so immediately and , of course , we expect the commission to examine with due haste the operational programmes for the regions for the new support period 2000 to 2006 in the light of the results of the sixth periodic report , and to do everything possible to enable this support period to commence without delay in those areas where it is needed and in the proper manner .
mr president , commissioner , this sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the european union constitutes a milestone in the analysis of regional data and highlights the progress made in this area since the issue of the fifth periodic report .
i consider , however , that the mention of any real convergence of average regional development levels in europe offers a somewhat over-simplified view of the situation and , unfortunately , this is often the message taken up in the press and in some speeches .
in this respect , i am pleased to see that the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism has adopted one of my amendments calling on the commission to devote a specific chapter in its next report on cohesion to the special case of the most remote regions and , more specifically , to consideration of the impact of the measures shortly to be adopted under new article 299 ( 2 ) of the treaty of amsterdam .
the first is that important advances have been made in regional and social cohesion throughout the union and that the community funds have been a major , although not decisive , factor in reducing regional inequalities .
it is therefore necessary to link structural financing more closely to job creation .
thus , mr president , i ask my fellow members to approve this report and i ask the commission , as other speakers have done , to take good note of the conclusions of their sixth periodic report when they address the programming for the period 2000-2006 .
mr president , commissioner , i would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for having taken due account of the proposed amendments while the committee was debating it .
our group is in favour of adopting this report .
mr president , commissioner , the european union ' s regional policy has , until now , not been able to interpret , in any significant way , the existing differences in our inhabitants ' incomes .
this does not mean that i do not see the need for competitiveness , particularly as i myself am an entrepreneur in an objective 1 region , that is in brandenburg in the federal republic of germany , and am only too aware of the problems and concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises .
the key goal of the structural funds is to strengthen social and economic cohesion between the regions within the european union .
mr president , it therefore seems worthwhile and necessary to focus attention on both national and regional authorities , especially in connection with boosting employment .
since it is the declared aim of all politicians throughout europe to reduce unemployment , then one must pose the critical question as to whether the policy employed is the right one or whether it would not be more appropriate to boost the competitiveness of the regions by appropriate measures such as increased support for research and development , improvements in infrastructure and raising the level of training .
mr president , commissioner , my thanks go to the rapporteur for handling this very important report , because developments in the social and economic situation will decide to what extent the citizens of europe will judge that we have been successful in our work .
in reunion , for example , the rate is 37 % .
the commission document expected to be ready in december 1999 was delayed until january , then february , and the initial thinking does not fill me with much optimism .
i should also like to make a few comments , firstly , mr berend , regarding the assessment you have made of this sixth periodic report .
fifthly , the importance and role of small and medium-sized businesses .
in relation to this , i must inform the european parliament of my intention to organise halfway through the year 2000 a seminar with national and regional authorities on this question of the evaluation of procedures for the exchange of good practice in the management of structural funds .
i have , however , taken note , particularly with regard to the most remote regions , mrs sudre , mr fruteau , and mr nogueira roman too , that your observation is that there is still much to do - and this is my third point regarding the policy - in terms of improving employment take-up aspects , the fight against social exclusion , which is particularly serious and intolerable in many of our regions , and the integration of women and young people into the labour market .
the debate is closed .
the second point i would like to make - and which i would have wished to make yesterday before the vote - is that this parliament , as other speakers remarked yesterday , can only really have an effect if it works in close cooperation and synergy with the european commission .
there needs firstly to be clarity between all of the groups of this house and then between this house and the commission .
thank you very much , mr cox .
the report is hereby withdrawn from the agenda .
not all national authorities , in particular the courts , are in a position as yet to fulfil the role the commission has in mind for them when it comes to the application of the competition rules .
secondly , the national courts will be empowered to implement articles 81 ( 1 ) , 82 and 86 in accordance with the current administration of justice .
nonetheless , it is still extremely important for the commission to support the national authorities and courts with group exemption regulations , guidelines and notices .
furthermore , cooperation between the national authorities and the commission , as well as amongst the national authorities themselves , must be strengthened .
the decentralisation proposed by the commission accords with the principle of subsidiarity , which has , in fact , now been firmly established in the treaty .
finally , i would like to say that the competition policy reform we are introducing here is a necessity and that it is going to be absolutely necessary , in this context , to clarify that the european union ' s competition policy is an essential pre-requisite to the success of a social market economy .
i want to make it quite clear that in this specific case i personally consider the commission ' s proposal to be wrong and feel that it remains to be seen as to whether we are truly justified in using the term " modernisation " to describe the content of articles 81 and 82 of the white paper , or whether in this case it would be more appropriate to use the expression " retrograde step " .
however , we are also discussing the aid report today and the general competition report for 1998 , and my contribution to this joint debate relates to the latter .
but , of course , both the competition report and the aid report share common ground in this white paper .
indeed , it is not just about modernisation of community law , more than anything it is about transparency of decisions taken in individual cases , about the possibility of decisions actually being able to implement decisions , for the european competition policy will be dependent on the population ' s acceptance , together with that of the political bodies and enterprises concerned .
only , without transparency there will be no acceptance , indeed there can be no modernisation without transparency .
therefore , i would urge the council and the intergovernmental conference to introduce the codecision procedure into legislation in this area .
it is certainly possible , indeed it must be feasible for state aid to be given to small and medium-sized enterprises involved in research and development for the purpose of educating them in regional and environmental policy .
the commission report is essentially a descriptive report detailing the development of state aid in the manufacturing sector and certain other sectors , according to various typologies , such as the method of financing and the objectives pursued .
let me refer you to the explanatory statement for the quantitative aspects of the report and simply mention at this point that the annual level of state aid , on average , for the period under review , is in the order of eur 95 billion , corresponding to a reduction in the order of 13 % in relation to the period 1993-1995 , a reduction which is essentially due to a reduction in aid in the federal republic of germany .
the commission can only collate and analyse the data provided by the member states .
it is therefore down to the states and regions to ensure the quality of the data provided , and our committee considers that additional efforts must be made in this respect .
it is in this spirit that our parliamentary committee for example , has championed the longstanding idea of a public register of state aid , accessible via the internet .
having better , more detailed information available , particularly with regard to the objectives pursued and the results recorded , must make it possible for the european commission to itself proceed or to commission in a regular manner studies of the social and economic evaluation of national and regional state aid policies .
and insofar as such studies already exist , to publish more openly its own comments with regard to the objectives of the treaties , which are not only to ensure the competitivity of the european economy , but also sustainable development and economic and social cohesion .
by stressing , primarily , the quality of the information provided , our debate in committee , and hence the report which it is my honour to present to you , avoided a simplistic response in the form of an a priori statement that the level of state aid was , in absolute terms , either too high or not high enough .
most committee members have sought rather to find a balance between , on the one hand , the need to see that both states and businesses comply with the competition rules and , on the other hand , acknowledgement of the value of such aid with a view to contributing to the objectives of the treaty , particularly , as i have said already , as regards sustainable development , research and development and economic and social cohesion .
this being the case , various amendments to the rapporteur ' s initial draft report were adopted in committee , particularly highlighting the need for effective reimbursement of aid found to be illegal as well as the establishment of a league table of results .
most of them are an expression of the political differences among ourselves regarding the appropriateness and effectiveness of state aid , in view of the inadequacies , acknowledged or not , of private investment alone , the market failures or inadequacies of the market .
there is in particular one amendment , let me point out , concerning the energy sector , which , in my capacity as rapporteur , i see as particularly important .
i should like to conclude this presentation , commissioner , by stressing two things : firstly , a concern of the members of the committee and , secondly , a demand of our committee .
the concern involves the pre-accession process for the countries of central and eastern europe , in terms of competition policy and state aid .
this is undoubtedly a complex issue , and one where we should like to see the commission informing us of the latest development in the matter , particularly in terms of the capacity of the economies involved in the accession process to comply with competition rules and , as far as state aid is concerned , the need , in all probability , to have specific rules on state aid used to assist restructuring of their sectors .
and finally , in conclusion , our demand regarding the future responsibilities of the european parliament in the matters we are discussing , competition policy and state aid , in the context of the intergovernmental conference .
there were a total of 27 cases in 1998 and the commission submitted its own report on these .
as in other sectors , the general ban on state aid according to article 87 ( 1 ) of the ec treaty also applies to the iron and steel industry .
under article 88 , the commission is obliged to supervise state aid .
in 1998 , the largest case concerned the supply of company capital totalling eur 540 million to the preussag in germany .
the rules pertaining to the steel industry were drawn up on 18 december 1996 .
these stipulate that state aid can only be awarded to the steel industry in particular , precisely-defined cases i.e .
those involving aid for research and development , aid for environmental protection , social security to ease the closure of steelworks and aid to help non-competitive enterprises cease trading altogether .
the commission will be called upon , in a report that has yet to be compiled for the year 1999 , to give a detailed explanation of its active role in the elaboration of restructuring plans and approved exemptions , thus enabling a proper assessment of the overall situation to be made .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the internal market is not complete .
in fact , competition policy and consumer policy belong together .
the internal market is the basis for our work .
parliament and the commission can together increase their efforts to achieve an effective competition policy and so create new opportunities and new resources for our citizens .
however i believe that we should use this opportunity for europe to set down a marker for less red tape .
the second point relates to the retrodisplacement of law enforcement .
my second point relates to discussion about competition and the social market economy , although i am not going to talk about market failure just now .
mr president , commissioner , i am speaking on behalf of my fellow member , robert goebbels , who is unable to attend due to a political commitment .
within the committee on economic and monetary affairs , the jonckheer report has given rise to bitter controversy on the subject of the operation of the market .
economic relationships in the real world adequately demonstrate that eliminating all public intervention in the market does not in any way bring about perfect competition and the optimum distribution of resources .
the market favours the short term and immediate profits .
the necessary and valuable spirit of initiative must be offset by a sense of responsibility towards society .
we european socialists are in favour of a market economy with a social purpose .
the market is not an end in itself ; it must help to improve the human condition .
the european union or individual states must not take over from economic operators , but public authorities must define the rules and objectives which enable the economy to develop in a sustainable fashion .
the main objective of the union ' s competition policy cannot be to reduce the overall level of aid .
this aid must be aligned with the objectives of the union , particularly economic and social cohesion , sustainable development and research .
the internet is not a product of the market , but the result of research financed by the american army .
the world wide web , which has enabled the meteoric development of the information society , was developed by cern in geneva , once again with public aid .
the german government ' s intervention to save the holzmann group was criticised as an unjustifiable constraint upon the market economy .
president duisenberg even attempted to attribute the weakness , the entirely relative weakness of the euro in relation to the dollar to this state interventionism .
wishing to save 60 000 jobs is , apparently , a sin against the market , but saving capital does not seem to present any problem for the advocates of the free market .
human labour , on the other hand , is considered to be a simple factor in the equation .
we want a true culture of competition in europe .
the state hand must still be clearly seen to regulate the market and the commission must act as judge .
mr president , commissioner , i want to begin by thanking mr rapkay for a good report and constructive cooperation .
these are three areas in which many danish companies are experiencing major problems and are being squeezed out of their markets .
the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party has tabled 80 amendments in the committee , all concerning state aid .
but , as i have already mentioned , our overriding objectives ought still to be those of transparency and openness .
regarding the first point , we say quite clearly that , in order to take into consideration the requirements of sustainable development which the european union has endorsed , it is essential that , in some instances , there is state aid to businesses , be it in the form of tax exemptions , special taxation or even direct aid .
it is also legitimate for there to be inter-company agreements and voluntary restraint agreements , since all these agreements make it possible to reduce the detrimental effects of competition on social or ecological requirements .
the scandalous concentration of power in sectors of strategic importance is giving speculative multinational groups economies the size of entire states , and member states of the union at that .
mr president , commissioner , in the course of this pivotal year , prior to the changeover to the single currency , the commission has deployed every effort to ensure the birth of the euro in a favourable environment .
the competition policy has , as far as these resources permitted , contributed to this event .
in this area , the commission has given priority to a number of routes of action : acting on the structure of markets by actively combating anti-competitive practices , by refocusing its departments ' supervisory activities only upon matters with a manifest community interest and by affirming its intention to modernise competition law .
finally , on the subject of modernising the implementation of articles 85 and 86 of the treaty , we do not think that decentralised application would necessarily be going in the right direction .
mr president , commissioner , we have a basically positive view of the commission ' s white paper on competition , particularly as regards the abolition of the system of notification and authorisation , but we are also puzzled by several things .
there is state aid for businesses - we have already discussed this , there is still a strong public presence in the economy - it is estimated that the italian treasury controls 15 % of stock exchange capitalisation ; governments and central banks place obstacles in the way of mergers and acquisitions ; and there has been much talk in recent weeks about vodafone ' s bid for mannesmann and the bailout of holzmann .
what is being done may well be very important , but it is still not sufficient .
market forces must be employed in a sophisticated manner to do full justice to the responsibility of citizens and companies .
the commission ' s white paper on modernising competition policy seems more like a discussion paper .
in general , i am a great defender of cultural diversity but not in terms of competitiveness within the internal market .
but i still wonder if we do not run the risk of ending up in a kind of echternach procession where we will have to take one step back before we are able to take two steps forward .
sixthly and lastly , i would remind you of a point that i have already raised in my report on vertical restrictions , namely the legal privilege of company lawyers .
mr president , i would like , in beginning my speech regarding the white paper , to congratulate the rapporteur , mr von wogau .
national competition authorities were able to apply articles 81 ( 1 ) and 82 for some time .
however , they could not apply article 81 ( 3 ) , which , to a certain extent , prevented the coherent application of article 81 ( 1 ) .
the procedure in the field of competition is basically contained in regulation 1762 .
the court of justice accepted some time ago that community competition law could be applied by the legal bodies of the member states and in 1994 , the commission published a communication on this subject .
one of the most frequent criticisms of community competition law is its excessive red tape .
as a consequence of the continental legal tradition , consideration of whether certain agreements are anti-competitive or not depends more on an analysis of their clauses than on their effects on the market .
secondly , regulation 1762 must be repealed and replaced with a new regulation .
however , if some of the amendments are accepted , particularly those presented by the ppe-de group , we would consider the report to be stripped of its value and to have become an inconsistent document , lacking in rigour and , in that event , we would reconsider our support .
mr president , i would like firstly to express my appreciation to the commission for the improvement represented by the xxviiith report on competition policy in the union , when compared to previous reports .
i would also like to fully support his comments on the need to allow the regions - such as the basque country , which i represent - a margin for action , by virtue of the principle of subsidiarity .
mr president , i would like to stress that , in an age of significant technological changes - just look at what is happening in the information technology sector and other sectors such as energy and transport - safeguarding competition will be of fundamental importance for our future .
mr president , for british conservatives the efficient and uniform application of european competition policy is at the core of achieving an effective single market across the whole of the european union .
it therefore follows that any proposal which suggests major reform of the machinery for competition policy enforcement must be closely and carefully examined .
the truth is that the single market is not yet complete .
i should like to make it clear that we have the greatest confidence in and respect for commissioner monti .
he mentioned earlier that the report was carried with a significant majority but not with my support .
the first is the potential for renationalisation of competition policy .
i remain worried about the capacity of national courts and the capacity of the national competition authorities .
but i really feel that , in the circumstances , we want to know what the implications would be for business .
mr president , the european union ' s competition policy has been of central importance since european integration began .
it is an integral part of the tension , inherent in the very concept of european integration , between solidarity and cooperation between member states , with a view to creating a better and more efficient environment for the people and the economy , and competition , which should provide incentives to improve the competitiveness and future viability of the european union as an entity .
we are aware that in this age of strategic alliances and millennium mergers - in 1998 usd 2 400 billion was paid out in connection with take-overs - restrictive practices are being held in check , not just by our own rules but also by bilateral cooperation with the usa or japan , or others , until we get the international competition law we so badly need .
european competition policy , as we very often forget , is not just important for fair competition as such , but also for prices , growth and employment , and hence for the public .
it is also important to underline the connection between competition policy and consumer protection .
i welcome the fact that commissioner monti wants to make progress in this area in the dialogue with the european parliament , as he does in the dialogue with non-governmental organisations , consumer protection associations and the public .
greater transparency will also help to achieve public acceptance of decisions relating to competition policy .
then it is possible to understand that , for example , lower electricity and telecommunications prices are due to european competition policy , and brussels should not be pilloried when aid decisions are taken which are , of course , bound to cause problems at a particular moment in time or in a local context .
it is particularly important for there to be clarity in relation to competition rules in view of eu enlargement .
a word on the white paper : the revision of articles 81 and 82 represents a change of direction in monopolies policy .
i am opposed to this , unlike the majority of this house and indeed the majority of my own group , because i believe that , in competition policy terms , the directly applicable exception system is in every sense inferior to a system of prohibition unless certain conditions are met , and i believe there is a threat of renationalisation .
the system currently in force creates transparency , affords enterprises legal certainty and has , without a shadow of a doubt , led to discipline and acted as a deterrent on account of the notification requirement .
i also agree with the criticism that no emphasis has been put on the implementation of article 82 , especially when we are witnessing abusive conduct in a context of market concentration .
as a member for the basque country , i would like to express my total support for the implementation measures for fair competition in the market .
our discrepancy stems from the fact that the commission continues to misunderstand the character of the general system and the co-responsibility of our arrangement which gives our basque fiscal rules the same nature , foundation and aim as the rules of the member states of the union , and that they are applied in a general way to all tax-payers who , by virtue of points which fall under an external system of law , are subject to those rules .
mr president , ever since i was elected to this parliament in 1994 i have never witnessed a report which had such anti-irish sentiments and overtones as the jonckheer report which we are debating today .
i find it difficult to understand how he can index regional and social funds into this mathematical equation .
mr president , the monopolies ' ban is the key element of functioning competition order in europe .
as the court of justice recognised in 1996 , the steel industry is particularly sensitive to competition-related disturbances .
it is therefore necessary to continue to limit state aid for research , development , environmental protection and cases of company closure .
in the same category of ideas , it is essential that member states fulfil their obligation to be accountable to the commission for the aid granted to their steel companies .
finally , and in conclusion , mr president , with the expiry of the ecsc treaty , the regulations will have to be reviewed since i think that the aid system will have to continue beyond 2002 , and in that case i am in favour of a council regulation which will ensure security in this area .
i agree with the rapporteur on two issues .
however , the thing that worries us most , mr president , is the decrease in prices , by 30 % , owing to imports .
orders in the steel industry and the ship-building industry - we also spoke about this a while ago - have decreased drastically , resulting in a loss of jobs .
i congratulate the rapporteur karl von wogau , who takes up the theme but also makes quite plain his demand for clarification , indicates the accompanying measures that need to be taken , and pulls no punches when it comes to the problems currently under discussion .
competition policy must continue to be accorded central importance and will not be renationalised because this would jeopardise the internal market and europe as a business location in a global economy .
i also welcome , therefore , the fact that responsibility is to fall to the individual , without the commission giving up any of its responsibility .
the commission report confirms that , with the exception of germany , state aid to businesses is increasing .
the commission finds this worrying only from the point of view of the conditions of competition .
all these firms have gone ahead with job cuts and even redundancies .
state aid is not only counterproductive because , as the jonckheer report acknowledges , it gives rise to subsidy hunting with firms relocating from one country to another , but it is unacceptable because it allocates public monies to the enrichment of a handful of private shareholders .
mr president , today ' s debate is extremely important because the principle of competition has probably been the cornerstone of the internal market .
in accordance with the principle of competition , the legislation has implemented articles 85 to 94 , competition policy in the strict sense , and the revision of all state aid and tax provisions which may affect competition .
firstly , fiscal provisions of an indirect nature and recently , thanks to commissioner monti , there have been direct provisions , the code of good conduct in particular .
this is all the worse - as is the case with the second part of this reform - when responsibility for implementing the legislation lies with national authorities .
thirdly , it seems to me important that the commission should play a role in resisting the temptation to create independent agencies which would distort the very essence of the commission , in order to guarantee uniform application by international bodies .
we have seen this in the aborted seattle conference and we are now seeing it in the bilateral conferences with different regions or countries of the world .
for example , the fact that the amount and level of state aid calculated on a per capita basis vary considerably from member state to member state reveals the need for surveys such as this .
for example , state guarantees , on which the commission has just publicised its position , must naturally be considered state aid , but they are , in my opinion , a better option than granting aid directly to companies .
the report on competition policy further stresses the commission ' s confidence in hard and fast rules instead of putting the emphasis on economic arguments regarding efficiency , which affects competitiveness .
if competition policy is to be made subordinate to the aims of social and environmental policy , real efficiency and economic growth will remain just a dream .
mr president , mr monti , the reform of competition rules calls for a commitment by the european union , not only in the light and as a consequence of changes which have taken place through the years , but also with a forward-looking view to the union ' s enlargement .
in my opinion , we should also create a threshold below which two significant components which characterise our economic structure should be placed : small and medium-sized businesses , which bind the european economy together , and social protection , which europe has always guaranteed to the weakest parts of the economy .
safeguarding the social function of the market is what makes the difference between free trade , pure and simple , and a system for improving people ' s quality of life .
a point to consider regarding the new rules concerns the economy of the outermost regions and islands , all of which must be protected .
a free and open market can only exist by the grace of competition , marked by clear , uniform rules .
but europe is changing .
it is not enough to say that , in the member states , there is already 40 years ' worth of experience .
i therefore believe it to be absolutely necessary to establish an interinstitutional dialogue so that we might reach a good conclusion and put all the finishing touches to this essential reform .
secondly , we have the issue of companies ' legal certainty .
thirdly , we have the problem of the uniform application of community law .
i believe that biodiversity is good , as is cultural diversity , but not diversity in the application of the law with regard to the essential core of the internal market , that is to say , competition law .
what we cannot do , commissioner - and i would like to end on this note - is to give way , and give ammunition , to those who regard the european institutions as the property of the great and the good , of the rich , and not of the citizen , or the small and medium business , which , in the worst case scenario - which will never become reality because the requisite measures will be applied to prevent it - will result in courts which make disparate judgements , very late , with no real possibility of control apart from what the french call " le parcours du combatant , " that is to say , after lord knows how many years , when the court in luxembourg passes judgement , a court which we know to be inundated at the moment .
therefore , commissioner , we are relying on this interinstitutional dialogue to put the finishing touches to a reform which we are all hoping for and which we believe will lead us to a successful conclusion under your direction and with our cooperation .
our common aim is to reform and strengthen competition policy , a pillar of the social market economy and of european construction .
the guiding thread running through all the aspects of the reform of competition policy , which we shall have the opportunity to address together , aims to ensure more effective protection of competition , reduce the bureaucratic burden weighing down businesses and take decision-making processes closer to the european people .
the current notification instrument , ladies and gentlemen , no longer allows us to reach this objective because it does not guarantee that the commission is properly informed about the most serious restrictions - i would remind you that , in 35 years , there have only been nine cases in which the commission has decided on prohibition following notification in the absence of a complaint - nor does it guarantee transparency or provide real legal certainty for businesses which , in the majority of cases , receive a simple comfort letter .
the proposed system will improve the protection of competition , primarily because it will allow the commission to concentrate its action on the most serious restrictions , also because it will involve national and competition authorities to a greater degree in stamping out infringements , and lastly in that it will allow victims of infringements to have direct recourse to national judges , whose mission is to protect the rights of individuals .
the commission proposal accords the commission a central role in establishing guidelines on competition policy .
the reform does not entail any reduction in the commission ' s activities , but requires them to focus on the most important dossiers .
as with many other provisions of the treaty , articles 81 ( 1 ) and 82 have , after all , been applied for decades by national authorities and judges , and i do not feel that this has created serious problems .
the commission will make every effort to define the legislative framework , both through general provisions and through its decision-making practice .
we will examine all that material carefully before making a legislative proposal for a new regulation .
the commission is paying particular attention to legal certainty for smes .
in the system we propose reforming our substantive rules in such a way that most smes will be covered by block exemption regulations , as in the field of vertical restraints .
let me simply remind you that the court of justice pronounced a ruling on this in 1982 , as you know better than i .
the first is greater transparency .
parliament knows how important we all consider the question of transparency in competition policy , as i did right from the moment i had my hearing , on 1 september , in the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
i would like to say that , as we know , the commission report on state aid to the steel industry does not include individual decisions made under the exception procedure , pursuant to article 95 of the ecsc treaty , but addresses decisions which are not covered by the code on aid for the steel sector .
in this regard , i liked your term , mrs palacio vallelersundi : we must all pull together , preferably in the same direction .
thank you , commissioner monti .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
mr president , year after year we learn , mainly from the european court of auditors ' test reports , that money is lost to the budget of the european union on account of misdemeanours ranging from wastage , mismanagement , and irregularities to suspected blatant fraud .
after five years only four have done so .
we are giving new life to this idea with this report and call upon the commission to present legislative proposals that will enable this goal to be realised .
the concerns of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , as articulated in its position , together with those of the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , will also be taken full account of in this process .
i support the proposed deadline for the commission being 30 september in a proposed amendment .
the second recommendation relates to criminal proceedings .
the commission ought - and i have also amended this deadline to 31 may 2000 - to propose a legislative act on the establishment of an independent body which has institutional links with the commission , for coordinating and supervising the legal investigative body olaf .
the existing monitoring committee can only monitor the independence of the director of the agency .
the proposal for a legislative act of this kind should contain an independent statute for this body and define its tasks , which are confined to inquiries and criminal prosecution undertaken by olaf into activities which are to the detriment of the union ' s financial interests , and to olaf ' s relationship with the national authorities .
there is no question of this influencing the administration of justice in the member states .
this moderation and thoughtfulness is particularly necessary in the implementation of article 280 ( 4 ) .
the conclusions of the theato report safeguard them perfectly .
we need also to be sensitive to the concerns of member states .
the proposal to set up a european public prosecutor service is a very sensitive one .
we are all aware that an all-out federal approach and a situation where a european judicial authority takes precedence over the national judicial authorities is a step too far for some people .
the whole question as to whether we have the legal authority to do this has been outlined by mrs palacio .
i should like to make clear that my group is going to propose an amendment deleting the detail of how the commission should tackle this question .
it is now possible , on the basis of article 280 of the treaty , that the commission will take new initiatives , and i would like to suggest to the commission that it do this at the earliest opportunity .
one of the major problems in this area was that if you do something wrong , especially when it comes to revenue of the european union , then this will be termed an irregularity in one country and a crime in another .
i believe that is something we are all desperately in need of , bearing in mind the results of the last european elections and of the level of turnout .
the establishment of a european public prosecutor ' s office and the definition of offences common to all countries of the union is doubtless a good idea , but it is impossible to consider putting this into practice without having first introduced a european legal system .
reading the precise and comprehensive explanations in the theato report makes you realise just how many problems still need to be resolved and what these problems are .
in any case , this idea must be encouraged , and it will doubtless be during this attempt to protect financial interests that we realise that we need to include a community corpus iuris in the treaties .
mr president , mrs theato ' s report on the protection of the european union ' s financial interests proposes centralising criminal proceedings by initially creating a european public prosecutor .
this proposal is radically opposed to the spirit of the current system in which the criminal law and criminal proceedings that lie at the heart of the national legal systems must come under the sovereignty of each nation and lie within the exclusive competence of each state .
but the idea of a european public prosecutor , on the other hand , aims in the long term to confine the national states to a subordinate role in these matters .
moreover , this proposal is liable to set off a chain reaction of totally unforeseen reforms .
according to the theato report , the european public prosecutor is needed , in particular , in order to better support the inquiries of the anti-fraud office , olaf .
at the same time , however , we see from the van hulten report under discussion today that the european public prosecutor should in turn be supervised by a european union court .
in the final analysis , we feel that proposals such as the proposal for a european public prosecutor demonstrate an inability to conceive of a europe in anything other than a centralised and hierarchical form , organised around a superstate .
and such a network could take the form of improved coordination between national public prosecution authorities , for example , and the creation , if necessary , of national teams specialising in offences involving community finances .
mrs theato probably forgot to include a european prison now that we have the fbi , the european police , in the form of olaf .
mr president , it is essential for there to be effective protection under criminal law of the financial interests of the european union , more so these days than there used to be .
this does not just mean administrative changes but also structural changes ; in other words we must create instruments which are actually capable of affording protection under criminal law .
the intergovernmental conference 2000 will provide the appropriate forum for discussing this .
now it is , of course , possible to take the view that criminal law and criminal proceedings law are intrinsically matters pertaining to the law of the member states and it is quite unthinkable that they should be governed by the principle of subsidiarity .
the compatibility with the various national systems of law , as confirmed by experts , shows that criminal law is another area where europe has a great deal in common , for example where the significance of the offences we have been discussing here is concerned .
taking these aspects into account , i consider it appropriate that we create a framework of this kind , as proposed , and i also consider it necessary to the further development of olaf .
it is just such practical cooperation there is a need for .
there is no european anti-fraud legislation in force because the member states , as was stated before , have not ratified the treaty texts submitted .
firstly , the same penalty clauses regarding european fraud must apply in all member states of the european union .
secondly , we should indeed set up a european public prosecutor ' s office with two tasks , firstly to assist the national public prosecutors , helping bring criminal proceedings in european fraud cases and , secondly , to supervise europol and olaf in a judicial sense because these are two criminal investigation services which can operate at the moment without any judicial supervision .
the committee of wise men supports this .
corpus juris is something that was set up without any kind of public debate or public participation .
the idea of a european public prosecutor on the continental inquisitorial model with overriding jurisdiction throughout eu territories would have a major impact on the traditional systems both in ireland and the uk .
the idea of a single criminal code and the european public prosecutor is something which member states have a right to be informed about .
indeed when the plan was initially drawn up they said it would be restricted to cases of fraud against the eu budget .
we need a public debate on this .
we need the member states and the citizens in the member states to be properly informed .
it is unacceptable that something like this has been foisted on the member states of the eu without any proper public debate .
mr president , on behalf of the italian radical members , i abstained on this text in the committee on budgetary control , because i share the concerns that have been voiced , in such an authoritative way , by the representative of another legal culture which is certainly important : common law .
article 280 of the treaty allows the council to pinpoint the appropriate instruments to curb fraud .
we wanted to express our perplexity as regards these points by abstaining in committee .
we find ourselves dealing with some very serious events , which in the past seemed to be the norm .
this issue needs to be explored further in both cultural and practical terms .
today , we run the risk of adding a new institution to the already numerous and varied institutions which exist within each country .
mr president , i would very much just like to add to two particular points .
what parliament needs to do as a matter of urgency though - and this is why we intend to vote for recital 1 without these recommendations - is to send out a clear political signal to the commission and council that we want to see a clear legislative act put an end to this disorderly state of affairs .
mr president , for years , parliament has called for specific and uniform protection under criminal law of the union ' s financial interests .
at the same time they call for the existence of an independent body to coordinate and monitor the thoroughness of investigations by olaf , without harming the administration of justice by each member state and under the supervision of the european court of justice .
we should approve this report because it highlights the need to maintain efficient legal control over our institutions , by protecting the union ' s financial system with a substantive and procedural european law which is capable of maintaining the credibility of the community ' s economic life .
the commission has given its commitment to this task and the draft for the overall package of internal reforms documents this .
on ratifying the amsterdam treaty , all member states stated that they wanted to accord combating fraud against the financial interests of the european union the same priority as combating fraud to their own detriment .
yet as things stand , only the first four member states have ratified the agreement concluded in 1995 .
the second recommendation in this report relates to assessing the legitimacy of the investigative measures undertaken by olaf in the various european institutions .
i am fully in agreement with the monitoring committee and the rapporteur on this point .
no , there must be no undermining of olaf ' s authority , and neither do i think this was the rapporteur ' s intention .
thank you , commissioner schreyer .
there is as yet no federal european tax .
all the same , a europe with 25 members will be wanting a european tax on income , if not on profits , or the tax on co2 to finance the budget for 2025 .
koch report ( a5-0105 / 1999 ) - ( fr ) it is with great satisfaction that i welcome this report on improved harmonisation in the training of safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods .
in recent years , the transportation of dangerous goods nationally and internationally has increased considerably , increasing the risk of accidents .
it therefore proved necessary , in the context of establishing the internal market , to adopt some measures intended to ensure better risk prevention .
directive 96 / 35 / ec was a response to this requirement .
firms involved in the transport of dangerous goods and in the loading and unloading operations related to such transportation have been obliged , quite rightly , to comply with regulations regarding risk prevention , whether road , rail or inland waterway transport is involved .
it therefore seemed essential to make good this omission in order to achieve the standardised , high-level training of safety advisers , but also in order to avoid any disparities between the costs of training , with a concomitant effect on competition between the firms of different member sates .
the commission proposal seeks to ensure that the training of safety advisers is standardised .
it outlines the minimum content of examinations and defines the role of the authorising body as well as the requirements demanded of the examining bodies .
parliament voted in favour of this text .
koch report ( a5-0104 / 1999 ) last october i expressed my views on the hatzidakis report on the transport of dangerous goods by rail .
i shall point out that a directive on the approximation of member state legislation on the transport of dangerous goods by road came into force on 1 january 1997 .
this included a number of interim conditions valid until 1 january 1999 .
in line with the usual procedure , it is the european committee for standardisation ( cen ) which puts forward standards in this area , and they are then integrated in to the european agreement concerning the international carriage of dangerous goods by road signed in geneva in 1957 ( known generally as adr ) , applicable throughout europe , whose terms and conditions form the basis for the legislation applicable within the eu .
the cen has been unable to complete its work in the time allotted .
consequently , the commission proposal under discussion today is intended to amend the directive in order to provide a short-term solution to these problems , rather than to put an end to the transitional arrangements , as should have been the case !
right now we do not have the slightest idea as to when the cen will be in a position to put forward practical proposals .
schroedter report ( a5-0108 / 1999 ) mr president , i wanted to press home my explanation of vote by this oral explanation following on from the schroedter report with regard to regional development .
i would urge both the member states and the commission to give sufficient consideration to the huge disparities in wealth which continue to exist between the different regions in europe .
not only the difference in income per capita but , above all , large disparities in employment continue to give cause for concern .
despite the fact that the community , through the structural funds among others , injects considerable sums into combating the disparities between regional development opportunities in europe , these disparities continue to exist .
i therefore wonder whether the community should not have a more drastic change of tack and , based on very strict evaluations , change its course and change its objectives in such a way as to make it possible to combat the disparities in wealth and employment more effectively .
i hope we can revisit this issue at a later time .
i believe that this is particularly important as eu structural funds are always spent in a manner which maximises the economic development of different regions when local and regional authorities are involved in the decision-making process for the spending of such funds .
as a member of the european parliament for the constituency of leinster , i have always supported the need for the implementation of bottom-up schemes supported by national eu funds .
i believe that local authorities and groups from the private and voluntary sector should be fully involved in the decision-making process for the spending of european structural funds .
for example , we have seen the success of the leader i and leader ii schemes in ireland in terms of the jobs which have been created through the administration of these programmes in rural parts of ireland and within europe .
the leader programme at its core affords an opportunity for public , private and voluntary groups to pool their collective talents so as to create long-term and sustainable jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas .
these initiatives must also involve the participation of local authorities and local communities in an effort to identify where best european structural funds should be spent .
the rapporteur refers to the need to implement an integrated approach to new eu structural fund plans and programmes .
they must promote a decentralised , efficient and comprehensive partnership based on the skills and commitment of all sectors in regional and local authorities .
jacques delors was accustomed to saying that the market was short-sighted and hence the political need to reduce disparities .
this is why i shall support this report , despite regretting the fact that , for timetabling reasons , the european parliament was only consulted at a very late date on the guidelines intended to assist member states , regions and local communities in the programming of objectives 1 , 2 and 3 .
moreover , i would also urge this house to take into consideration the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs , adding a whole raft of thoughts on key areas such as combating social exclusion , support for the social economy and the implementation of the employment strategy .
these guidelines represent a step towards the improved effectiveness of community structural aid .
they also call for a general debate on the future of the cohesion policy after 2006 , but that is another subject .
if we are to have an effective single market that makes european industry globally competitive and generates wealth and employment for all europeans , then we must have a level playing field .
it is therefore crucial that the european parliament drafts its broad indicative guidelines without threatening the principle of subsidiarity , given that establishing the development strategy for each country falls to the respective member states .
unfortunately , the european commission has already moved ahead with its guidelines and parliament ' s position on the programmes for 2000-2006 does not carry much weight .
in this respect , the commission document has shortcomings , as it makes no recommendation to the member states to simplify procedures and national legislation for the presentation and examination of projects by the national authorities , and for their funding , execution and monitoring .
this is why the mid-term review , provided for under article 42 of regulation 1260 / 99 , will be of considerable importance .
while in theory this may meet the need for concentration and therefore the efficiency of interventions , we cannot help wondering whether the current situation of the objective 1 zones allows , in practice , a policy of integrated interventions , for which an operational instrument to coordinate the appropriations is necessary .
there has been no appropriate assessment of the importance of the global grant instrument , which could prove to be extremely useful in redressing the balance between urban and rural zones and , moreover , would accord proper status to local bodies which , being independent , could bring about the conditions for territorial development more quickly , and make a practical contribution to the efforts to reform the structural funds and to achieve the objectives of efficiency , concentration and administrative reform .
rural areas must truly be seen as a resource which should be increasingly invested in , by encouraging young people to remain in rural areas in order to prevent their economic and social disintegration .
it is now a fact that in order to attain this goal , rural areas need to see the creation of new jobs , which are no longer solely connected with agriculture , in the traditional sense - although this sector is important for the protection of the environment and the preservation of biodiversity - but also , for instance , in rural tourism , sport and cultural activities , environmental projects , smes , services , and so on .
in conclusion , the document is not particularly satisfactory , and in some aspects is disappointing .
berend report ( a5-0107 / 1999 ) . ( pt ) we basically agree with the assessment and the thoughts put forward by the rapporteur concerning the sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the european union .
finally , but no less importantly , i would like to refer to the rapporteur ' s proposal that , in future , this type of report should also include , amongst other issues , an analysis of the way cohesion is developing between the regions within each state .
in 1986 , the average of the 10 poorest regions amounted to 41 % of the overall community gnp .
progress is particularly marked in portugal and ireland .
this is a generalised tendency , sparing neither the rhone-alpes , nor alsace .
it has been confirmed in sweden and finland , countries where unemployment has in fact increased to a worrying degree over the last few years , as in many regions of the united kingdom .
the rural regions eligible under objective 5b will be included among the main victims of this situation : in france , 27 % of the populations eligible for structural funds are going to lose their eligibility at the end of the transition period , a figure which is occasionally much larger in some regions such as the loire region , alsace or lower normandy , political strongholds of the right-wing that were the victims of the petty political vote chasing of the left-wing coalition government .
based as it is on such choices , it is to be doubted whether regional policy can contribute to harmonious regional planning within the member states of the european union .
von wogau report ( a5-0069 / 1999 ) . ( fr ) considering the employment situation in the community and the european union ' s declared ambition to steadfastly attack unemployment , the analysis of mergers carried out by the commission should take elements other than competition into consideration .
the management of abb alsthom power , following a merger carried out in june 1999 , announced restructuring where there is already the prospect of layoffs in a number of countries .
this damaging situation for employment raises many questions , particularly regarding the information given to the european works council , in existence since 1996 .
on the other hand , as the rapporteur points out , in the name of competition policy , public monopolies are often exchanged for private monopolies , with the privatisation of important industries and public companies , as has happened in portugal , with harmful consequences for the country and its workers . - ( fr ) the commission ' s white paper on the modernisation of the rules implementing articles 85 and 86 of the ec treaty ( now 81 and 82 ) certainly does not propose any " renationalisation " of competition policy , as some members of the european parliament fear .
but it does , at least , make it possible to anticipate some rather interesting options for development of the european union .
in fact , taking note of the congestion of its services due to the prior notification system of state agreements likely to cause distortions in trade , and afraid of seeing the number of notifications increase yet further with the arrival of new member states , the commission is proposing to do away with the prior notification system of such agreements , and to apply competition rules at member state level in a more decentralised fashion .
the most remarkable thing , in my view , is the message conveyed by this proposal : that the commission is anticipating the consequences of enlargement and realising that this necessarily , and virtually automatically , requires reform of the centralised system .
moreover , the von wogau report , which the european parliament has just voted on , supports it in so doing .
but , on the other hand , the wider view must also be taken , namely that the initial decentralisation which has been begun today may , in the long term , lead to greater freedom to take the requirements of each country into account , and this will be of benefit to everyone .
rapkay report ( a5-0078 / 1999 ) the members of parliament from the lutte ouvriere party shall not be voting in favour of these reports on european competition policy .
the commission ' s declared intention to regulate the conditions of competition on the european market is ridiculous , for the only law which competition respects is the law of the jungle where the most powerful squash or devour the weakest elements .
the european commission ' s report is a blunt demonstration of the fact that the union institutions have no interest in anything except the major capitalist corporations who are engaged in this economic warfare and have no interest in the victims this causes .
we are voting against this report on behalf of the development of public services , in memory of the victims of the paddington rail disaster , killed not by fate but by an absurd determination to have competition where there should instead be regulations .
do you imagine that the 18 million unemployed people in europe are victims of too reticent an application of this competition policy ?
jonckheer report ( a5-0087 / 1999 ) i am pleased to see the quality of the seventh report on state aid within the eu , and to see that it will henceforth be an annual report , and also that the directorate-general for competition will be making information , both general and specific , publicly accessible via its website .
there is too often a tendency to criticise state aid harshly as a measure causing distortion in competition .
admittedly , an effective competition policy is a prerequisite for the proper operation of the internal market and of economic and monetary union .
however , as the rapporteur pointed out , such aid is occasionally essential and may , in addition to enabling the survival of a specific firm , make it possible to contribute to sustainable development ( article 6 of the treaty ) , services of general economic interest ( article 16 ) and economic and social cohesion ( article 158 ) .
the aid which union member states allocate each year to the sectors under consideration reached a total of eur 95 billion in the period 1995-1997 , including 40 % allocated to the manufacturing sector .
this aid is considerably less than the previous period , 1993-1995 ( a 13 % drop in the total amount and a drop from 3.8 % to 2.6 % in the amount of aid to the manufacturing sector ) .
this downturn in aid is chiefly due to the reduction in aid granted to the new german lander .
the european commission must make good these omissions as soon as possible .
it must also cooperate with the member states in order to improve the quality of data in good time , which is to say in time for the ninth report .
i also deplore the fact that the european parliament has been totally excluded from the advisory committee on state aid .
this is why i should like to see the next report on state aid include some assessment of the effect of such aid on employment , industry and craft businesses in the beneficiary countries .
just as the court of justice recognised in its order of 3 may 1996 , the iron and steel industry is particularly sensitive to disturbances to its competitive operation .
at the same time , it is , of course , essential to avoid any disturbance of competition conditions or of the markets , hence the importance of regulating such aid .
it is therefore essential to continue to restrict state aid to research and development , environmental protection and aid granted in the event of plant closure .
in the same way , it is vital for member states to fulfil their obligation to report to the commission on the aid granted to their steel undertakings , as stipulated under article 7 of the steel aid code .
the commission suggests that member states submit their reports within a time limit of two months following the end of each six-month period or , at least , annually , without the need for reminders .
although the steel aid code is expressed in a very clear way , the commission has , on a number of occasions , authorised aid for the steel industry even though such aid did not fall within the categories set out in the code .
finally , we have the problem of the consequences of the expiry of the ecsc treaty .
the aid system must effectively be continued beyond 2002 .
my feeling in this respect is that only a council regulation can provide the necessary legal certainty and ensure an official ban on any aid not covered by the code .
mr president , i would firstly like to thank parliament for offering me the opportunity to hold a debate on the disaster which has occurred off the french coast , as a result of the sinking of the oil tanker erika on 12 december 1999 , which resulted in more than 400 kilometres of coastline being contaminated with spilt oil , leading to the death of thousands of birds and other enormously adverse effects from the point of view of the environment and the preservation of our seas and of clean coastlines which meet the minimum requirements of a developed society .
we all know them , and i simply want to say that the commission shares the indignation , not only of those who live along the french coastline , who are the first to be affected by this disaster , but also all those europeans - and non-europeans - who may face similar disasters .
the commission immediately expressed its solidarity and has wanted to contribute to combating the tragic consequences of this event with all the means at its disposal .
thus , from the environmental point of view , i must say that , in collaboration with , and at the request of , the french authorities , immediately after the sinking , commissioner wallstrom , who is in charge of the environment , created an environmental crisis unit .
the commission also participated in the deployment of tools for combating pollution in the area of the disaster , coordinating the actions of eleven member states of the union , who have sent more than 26 kilometres of floating barriers to the area .
this work consisted particularly of the creation of a community system which gathers all available information relating to the existing community resources for combating this type of pollution , the establishment of a community working group and the joint financing of the project to develop and improve the techniques for combating pollution within the european union .
as well as the emergency proposal , it is also necessary , in the long term , to maintain the capacity to confront other similar disasters .
therefore the commission is delighted that parliament has favourably received , at first reading , its draft decision on the establishment of a legal framework which will improve cooperation in combating accidental pollution .
the commission hopes that recent events will speed up the final approval of this text in parliament and the council and will therefore allow us to move beyond the current situation .
however , with regard to transport , i would like to say that the sinking of the erika once again raises the problem of the prevention of marine accidents and , more specifically , safety in the transport of polluting products .
in this respect , i believe that , firstly , it is essential to highlight the fact that the european union has not been inactive since the notorious sinking of the amoco cadiz in 1978 off the french coast .
nevertheless , perhaps we should ask ourselves whether we need to do more .
over the last six years , some fifteen community regulations and directives have been adopted .
the states have now been provided with a legal framework which allows them to tackle the issue of flags of convenience , as well as all of those parties who fail to fulfil their safety obligations .
and , of course , the commission must be certain to ensure that , in the member states , these regulations are applied in a consistent manner .
with regard to the sinking of the erika , the results of the preliminary investigation , carried out by the french authorities on the causes of the accident , have been communicated to the commission .
the report demonstrates the lightweight nature - to use a euphemism - of the controls which have been applied in this case .
i must say that the commission , for its part , since 21 december 1999 , has approached the italian authorities in charge of port inspections , as well as the classification society rina , which was responsible for the most recent classifications of the erika , with a view to receiving explanations regarding the way that the erika has been inspected .
the commission must ascertain whether the relevant community directives were correctly applied in this case , both by the italian authorities , as the port state , as well as the company rina , as the classification society .
these checks , mr president , are essential with regard to perfecting the directives in the future and our ability to improve on the action which is being taken .
however , without pre-empting the results of these investigations - how the sinking happened , what the real reasons were , and how the inspections were carried out , both by rina and by the italian port authorities - , all indications suggest that the erika accident raises a series of questions which merit close attention and require us , in my opinion , to act with the greatest urgency .
the commission was already preparing a communication on safety in sea transport and port safety .
however , these events clearly oblige us to speed up the presentation of this communication and above all to concentrate on the transport of dangerous goods and pollutants , especially oil , gas and chemical products .
this document will be accompanied by a series of legislative proposals intended to improve maritime safety in community waters .
the commission intends to adopt them before june of this year , so that the debates on the proposed measures may begin , both in this parliament and in the council , as from the second six-month period of 2000 , under the french presidency .
as for the content of this communication , we basically intend to tackle the following issues : firstly , the tightening up of controls on ' high-risk ' ships , whatever flag they may sail under , although the statistics speak for themselves : in port inspections , ships carrying the flags of the fifteen member states of the european union show around 5.9 incidences per 100 inspections carried out .
the world average is around 15.6 incidences in inspections carried out in european ports .
in the case of cars , we all know that , after four years , they have to undergo a technical inspection every year .
secondly , in european ports , we should promote the use of oil tankers which respect the environment .
more specifically , we intend to establish a system which will allow us to determine the liability of the owner or forwarder of the cargo and hold them liable - indeed , it is because there are forwarders who show little concern for the quality of the ships they charter that shipowners choose to register their vessels abroad - as well as increasing the insurance premium paid by shipowners in respect of the total sum insured per ship .
finally , the commission intends to continue in its efforts to improve transparency with regard to the quality of the ships sailing in european waters .
in this regard , the commission proposes to speed up the implementation of the equasix system , which must be in place as from may of this year , which is no more and no less than a system for up-to-date information on the situation of the international fleet to which all these ships belong .
the international maritime organisation , as we all know , has the capacity neither for controlling nor for making mandatory the regulations subscribed to by some states who often forget their commitments and close their eyes - to put it mildly - to the obligations they have signed up to in these conventions .
secondly , we must continue to try to achieve greater competitivity in the european shipping sector , which is a sector capable of very high levels of safety , maintaining a high level of requirement , but we must also be capable , with regard to flags of convenience , of combating the abuses which occur in relation to these flags .
finally , ladies and gentlemen , we must combat the irresponsibility of some shipowners , some forwarders , some states , some companies and some operators in the field of maritime transport who , through their irresponsibility , endanger our natural environment and may create disasters such as the one which has unfortunately happened recently along the french coastline .
mr president , i shall be speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group , but also as an elected representative for brittany , and i am therefore directly concerned and shocked by these events .
i am pleased to see that we have today arrived at a compromise motion .
the erika shipwreck is a truly european issue , firstly because it is disfiguring and polluting some of the most beautiful beaches in europe , with extremely serious consequences for tourism , people who earn their living from the sea and environmentalists , and also because the underlying issue is the regulation and monitoring which ought naturally to be on a european scale .
because the americans managed to learn their lesson from the exxon valdez disaster and in 1990 to draw up the oil pollution act , which makes the parties concerned aware of their responsibilities , as it makes it possible to hold the charterer liable , and is more restrictive , and , more especially , more carefully monitored thanks to various regulations and , in particular , the existence of the american coastguard .
firstly , i would like to thank the environment colleagues in my group who approached this particular problem jointly with their transport team .
this disaster is both a transport and environmental one and is not confined to one area .
here we are here again in this parliament discussing yet another maritime disaster .
while i recognise that some progress has been made in areas like port state control and minimal crewing standards , we are still faced with what our late colleague ken stewart used to call ' ships of shame sailing in and out of our european union waters : rust buckets badly crewed ' .
in reality we can never stop accidents happening at sea , but it is incumbent upon us all to learn the lessons whenever an incident of this kind takes place and apply those lessons to reduce risks in future .
the " erika " incident was serious especially for the people of brittany most closely affected , but it was devastating for the wildlife of much of europe .
some say that it is the worst accident that has ever befallen the bird life of this part of europe .
the thought of an incident of this kind occurring in the near future should concentrate her mind and the minds of her officials wonderfully .
but , listening to you , commissioner , we are somewhat frustrated because anyone already involved in these matters knows that in 1992 , i believe , the commission and parliament drew up a very interesting text which already contained all the proposals included in the resolution drawn up by the transport committee .
and , on this subject , commissioner , you did not mention how the commission intends to contribute to the restoration of the natural environment and the natural habitats .
mr president , my group asked that this debate be set up in order to provide parliament with an opportunity to express its solidarity with the people directly affected by this ecological disaster , affected both in terms of their economic activities and in terms of their attachment to their natural environment .
many volunteers from france and other european countries have expressed their solidarity by lending a hand to the victims in the field .
as the european parliament , we can express our solidarity primarily by taking action in order to ensure the immediate release of emergency aid to the families affected by the oil slick and , at the same time , demanding tightening up of the quality criteria , on the european and international scale , of the regulations and standards governing the safety of sea transport , stipulating much more frequent inspection and sanctions that are a far greater deterrent to offenders .
our proposals are particularly concerned with the age of oil tankers .
among those inspected and found to be in contravention of regulations last year , 15 were at least 20 years old and some were 30 and more .
finally , there is the lack of transparency .
i am thinking specifically of total-fina in the present instance .
mr president , commissioner , as a member for the french atlantic coast , for vendee , i should first like to express the disgust of the people who are the victims of the erika oil slick in the face of these disasters , caused not by a natural disaster such as the hurricane which has also just struck us , but by a crime .
what the stricken populations are waiting for now , those who have lost everything , particularly among those who made their living from the sea and from tourism , those people whose businesses have been compromised for several years to come , is not for the polluters to repair the damage they have caused , but for the gears to now be set in motion to ensure that their present misfortune serves to prevent similar crimes affecting other people in future .
so today we find ourselves in a state of utter confusion .
a directive on maritime safety has been in preparation for many years , but it is making very slow progress .
i shall mention three issues that our group feels are priorities .
thirdly , a strict age limit on vessels to be given access to community waters must be established in the near future .
if we do not obtain a framework of community regulations which is sufficiently clear , strict and trenchant , then those member states that wish to do so must be allowed to take the necessary steps to protect their people and their territory , in the same way that the united states succeeded in learning the lessons of the exxon valdez disaster by making double hulls compulsory and banning all vessels more than 20 years old from their waters .
mr president , torrey canyon , olympic bravery , haven , amoco cadiz , gino , tanio , so many names we remember with horror .
twenty one years after amoco cadiz , this umpteenth oil slick , the seventh since 1967 , shows the irresponsibility of our successive rulers .
the erika , a vessel flying a maltese flag , a floating rust bucket , classed amongst the most dangerous type of oil tankers , has contaminated more than 400 km of our coastline , a case of pollution even worse than that caused by the amoco cadiz .
the erika disaster must be the last in the series .
next , reliable technical inspection must be established like the technical inspection compulsory in france for vehicles more than five years old .
we must regulate the use of flags of convenience , make double hulls mandatory for the transport of polluting or dangerous materials , work on technological innovations in order to be able to process or recover hydrocarbons at sea .
non-compliant vessels must be denied access to european waters , the responsibility of polluters , shipowners or charterers must be determined in line with the principle of the " polluter pays " , maritime supervision must be strengthened to prevent any degassing , thorough and reliable inspection of tankers must be required , an appropriate " natural disasters " budget line must be re-established for member states and , in the meantime , community aid released on an exceptional basis and the french departments affected by the disaster should be made eligible for structural funds .
it is particularly bad this time , not least because it has affected a major european state ; an incident which could happen again at any time .
mr president , may i start by saying that i would like to thank commissioner palacio very much for her clear , adequate and , at the same time , very firm response .
this also means that , in any case , i have a great deal of respect for the briefing note which she sent on 10 january but also for the action points which she announced today .
the erika disaster shows that when sound traffic and transport regulations are lacking at international and european level , nature and the environment come off second-best .
mr president , we have already had this discussion so many times in the past .
thirdly , we need to carry out checks on these safety and insurance certificates in the ports , that is in every port of the european union .
we need to be sure that if need be , the country whose flag the ship is flying will accept liability .
in the fifth place , we need there to be a guarantee that these demands will apply to all ships using the ports and waterways of the european union , and incidentally , that includes the candidate countries .
but how do we make use of the sense of crisis to which this ecological disaster has led ?
mr president , we shall vote in favour of the gue / ngl group resolution because it denounces total-fina ' s responsibility in this ecological disaster and i endorse the proposal that flags of convenience and the use of superannuated vessels should be prohibited , or that double hulls should be mandatory for oil tankers .
the crux of the problem is that all governments , and indeed all the european institutions , acknowledge the right of major corporations such as total-fina and its ilk to maximise profits whether it be harmful to their employees or to the environment .
in these circumstances , even the best resolutions will remain little more than appeals to principle which are powerless to limit the great corporations ' capacity to cause damage .
if the member states decide , in agreement with ourselves , that 25 % of ships are to be monitored on the basis of port state control , then they must also make the necessary personnel available .
mrs roth-behrendt , we already have a tuv ( organisation for safety testing ) for ships in the form of the classification companies .
finally , we should make it quite plain to malta that if it wants to become a member of this community then by the time it accedes it must apply a standard in respect of registration and flag state control which completely fulfils our requirements , for the environment is a communal entity and not something that we can divide up !
mr president , commissioner , the erika sank near my home and is still there , with 20 000 tonnes in its hold , the fate of which we are waiting to discover .
my first thoughts are for the 26 indian sailors , who were saved but of whom nothing has been said .
commissioner , as time is very short , i would like to pick out the seven points which we feel , and you have already mentioned some of them , are essential to work on : double-hulled vessels in our waters as soon as possible and the strictest possible state control of ports .
then , sanctions must be harmonised between the 15 member states ; they should not be different , but the same throughout the union .
finally , there must be improvements in the training of crews .
mr president , i welcome the statement from the commissioner .
i would like to express my sympathy with all those who are dealing with the consequences of the breaking up and sinking of the oil tanker erika .
however , before we rush in with a whole raft of new measures and new regulations , let us look carefully at the existing arrangements to be sure that they are being properly implemented .
it is no accident , commissioner , that the affected areas are always those european regions which are least developed , those which eke out a meagre existence from tourism and fishing and which , in the majority of cases , do not have any other resources .
portugal is a country which has clearly demonstrated its sensitivity to issues relating to the sea .
i would ask the portuguese presidency to study the possibility of implementing a complete strategy for the prevention of maritime accidents at european level , using all the means at our disposal - technological , structural and socio-economic - to prevent a disaster such as this from happening again in the future .
we must thank those who , while defenceless and lacking in resources , have battled courageously against the grave effects that this disaster has had on coastal regions , the marine ecosystem and european fishing stocks .
the erika catastrophe comes as no surprise .
i do not know precisely how many , but any number of ships which are practically floating time bombs in european waters , sail every day , and as far as i can see , a catastrophe of this kind could happen again any day .
it always came from the member states , from the council of ministers , where they fought doggedly over every trifling matter , achieving very little in terms of progress .
mr president , commissioner , i believe that the unfortunate incident involving the erika should in fact , as others have said this afternoon , constitute a decisive watershed which will see the end to this type of accident in the european union where , since 1967 , there have been seventeen accidents involving large oil tankers ; more than one every two years .
i trust that these measures will , in a few months , give rise to a clear and convincing legal instrument - a directive , possibly - which will put an end , once and for all , to these 21st century pirates , who deprive us all of the wealth and beauty of the sea .
commissioner , there are many experts who consider that the double hull is not sufficiently safe and propose the so-called ' ecological hull ' in which case , in the event of an accident , the seawater penetrates the containers and , as a result of pressure , the oil is transferred to other tanks .
mr president , commissioner , i think that first we should all congratulate ourselves on the procedure that has been adopted and which will lead us , after each of our respective political groups has rallied together and expressed its feelings , finally to produce a joint resolution .
i think that it is quite obvious , and this is the first conclusion that can be drawn from the erika disaster , that public opinion would find it hard to understand that we regulate chocolate but do not regulate maritime transport .
the commissioner has suggested three main chapters which need to be drafted and brought into line with our legislation , in which we can set standards .
i have also noted , to my great satisfaction , that even the groups advocating greater national sovereignty , or the eurosceptic groups are calling for europe to regulate , and i think that this is in fact the right level to take action .
we sometimes regulate things which could , by and large , remain subsidiary .
i hope that all political groups will support us in our request for a public hearing .
the cause of the disaster must be sought in the weakened structure of the oil tanker .
although britain and france have had their differences recently , i can assure you that there is considerable sympathy in my country for all those affected .
tv pictures of the damage done to your coastline and wildlife , in particular birds and the already dwindling fish stocks , have brought back memories of similar british disasters , such as the torrey canyon in 1967 , and have prompted many british volunteers to help .
instead of allowing the costs of these disasters to fall on the communities most affected and insurance markets such as lloyds of london , we must develop new technologies to retrieve from the sea much more than 10 % of the lost oil .
in addition we must build on the council directive dealing with enforcement of international standards for ship safety and pollution prevention by ensuring that the inspection goal of 25 % of ships calling at eu ports is met and that a high standard of inspection is delivered .
rather than banning flags of convenience , which would violate the right of every sovereign state to have a merchant fleet , under the 1995 eu directive on port state control , national maritime authorities must impose more effective sanctions on flag states which fail to carry out their international treaty obligations .
i sincerely hope that , particularly during the french presidency later this year , the commission and the council will look carefully at all these options , and i heartily commend this resolution to parliament .
this was demonstrated by the americans who , after the exxon valdez disaster , within one year , adopted enormously rigorous and tough legislation , which threatens , as i said earlier , to divert ships unacceptable to american ports towards europe .
in europe , after the amoco cadiz , or the urquiola on the spanish coast , in 1976 , or the torrey canyon , in the same year , or the many other cases there have been , we really began to legislate after 1994 and 1995 , particularly in the last few years .
in my opinion , we now have to make a significant and urgent effort to confront new problems , also deriving from american legislation , which emphasise the safety of the transport of dangerous goods in the maritime sector .
i have referred to a series of issues which i will lay out in more detail , if you wish , in an appearance before a special committee on this matter , or when i present the actual initiatives in the coming months .
malta and cyprus have asked to join the community .
we must be demanding on this issue and we are negotiating to this end .
i believe that this will be difficult but , in any event , we should carry out a review of the registers of the european union countries .
according to the information which the commission services have given me , this legislation is not adequately applied in many member states due to a lack of personnel , means and inspectors .
unfortunately , the 25 % often consists of flags which are expected to fulfil the requirements : in this way inspections are quicker and the work is carried out more easily .
therefore , more than making amendments , we will have to implement measures to control what is already being done , apart from some supplementary requirements with regard to reviews , especially in relation to the age of the different vessels .
but , obviously , as some speakers have said - and i thank all of you for your totally positive and relevant interventions - we cannot allow a situation where , within one , two or three years , we have to say once again that we have not done what we should have done .
we have taken good note of your intentions .
i have received 8 motions for resolution , in accordance with rule 37 ( 2 ) , to close the present commission statement .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12.00 p.m .
storms in europe the next item is the commission statement on the storms in europe .
we are now speaking - and personally , i am very happy that we are - about the consequences of an historic storm , a veritable hurricane which affected france , and also the federal republic of germany and austria in the same period .
this is the solidarity that i would like to express on behalf of the whole commission and , particularly , within the commission , on behalf of my colleagues who have not forgotten their roots or their citizenship : franz fischler from austria , michaele schreyer and gunther verheugen from germany , and pascal lamy and myself from france .
the objective 2 zoning was stopped by the commission after consulting the various governments .
in germany ' s case , the commission ' s decision was taken in december and today , the commission has stopped the objective 2 zoning plan , not only for luxembourg and sweden , but also for france and austria .
in france ' s case , where the damage is objectively the most extensive , the total available appropriations for the new objective 2 are eur 5.4 billion for the period 2000-2006 .
a preliminary study by the commission services shows that on the basis of a financial allocation set up in proportion to the eligible population , 70 % of people affected by the storm may benefit from aid eligible under objective 2 .
the 69 devastated french departments could thus receive around eur 4.1 billion over the next seven years .
for germany and austria , the corresponding total sums are respectively eur 3 billion for germany and eur 600 million for austria .
i would also like to point out that the devastated areas which do not feature on this new zoning plan - and unfortunately there are some - which are not covered by objective 2 , but which were eligible under the previous objective 2 and objective 5b zoning , could also have access to appropriations available in the new programming period as provisional support .
they will probably have new priorities , in order to take into account the consequences of this storm or of the oil slick .
it is up to the governments of the countries concerned to distribute community financial support among the various regions eligible for structural funds , and therefore to propose to the commission plans for action to be carried out at grass roots level .
i know that parliament adopted a previous resolution to this effect , on 16 december last year .
i hope you do not mind if i stress , even though i have already said it twice , that this applies to greece too , with regard to the consequences of the earthquake which occurred at the beginning of september , in accordance with objective 1 of the cohesion fund .
ladies and gentlemen , my colleague , franz fischler , adopts the same approach with regard to rural development .
france will therefore benefit by eur 760 million per year , germany by eur 700 million and austria by eur 423 million .
this aid is available for devastated regions and is not constrained by the zoning which i am bound to apply under objective 2 .
france would thus have access to eur 225 million for the period 2000-2006 .
community aid will thus be able to contribute to compensating fishermen and boat-owners for the temporary cessation of their activities in case of unforeseen events , up to a maximum of two months per year .
it is therefore very important that this house , as well as the commission , passes this information and this practical expression of solidarity on to all partners involved and to the people concerned and affected .
as far as i am concerned , i shall endeavour to do that myself this week , when i visit , the day after tomorrow , two french departments which have been particularly badly affected by the storms : charente-maritime , affected both by the hurricane and the oil slick , and creuse .
tomorrow , 19 january , my colleague michaele schreyer will visit one of germany ' s most devastated regions , the black forest , in the state of baden-wurttemberg .
nevertheless , i think that we must go even further .
this really is an opportunity to create a genuine european civil protection force .
today , we have a long way to go , even if the helsinki european council did take a step forward in this direction and margot wallstrom ' s services are working on extending the role of the ' search and rescue task force ' .
mr president , the last days of 1999 were swept away by an incredibly violent storm , which struck france in the main , but also affected germany , spain , great britain and switzerland .
i am sad to say that it accounted for more than 100 deaths , 88 of which occurred in france .
the human cost has been enormous , but so has the material damage , and both public amenities and private property have been destroyed or seriously damaged .
now that the shock has passed and the authorities ' vital functions have been re-established , i wonder , and i ask the commission and the council to consider as well the opportunity once again to incorporate a budget line for emergency aid into the community budget , in order to address this kind of occurrence .
next , i would like to address the huge problems encountered by one industry that has been particularly badly affected by this storm .
in france , more than 120 million cubic metres of wood were brought down by the wind .
with regard to this , i am delighted at the work that has been done in recent days in this house between the various political groups in order to reach a joint resolution which , i hope , will be adopted tomorrow .
above all , i think that public opinion will see this solution as unacceptable in terms of our political responsibility to europe .
commissioner , i would like to thank you for the ideas you have put forward , particularly on the very specific proposals concerning the people affected and who are expecting a lot from the european union , in terms of the help that we can offer them .
i think that you must have done so , because you have not mentioned it .
you also know that this will not only be a short-term problem , but also a medium and long-term one .
the towns concerned estimate that it will be spread over 40 years .
i think that consequently it will be extremely difficult indeed to compensate these rural towns through subsidies for losses in their financial revenues .
we should therefore review our policies in order to take account of this fact .
mr president , commissioner , france is still in shock as a result of this terrible disaster which has caused the death of dozens of people .
people may have been traumatised in the areas where the damage has been greatest , but nobody has given up in the face of these terrible circumstances .
on the contrary , i think that the situation shows in hindsight the relevance of the proposal my group made to restore a specific budget line for natural disasters in the union .
it would also be appropriate , of course , to increase the structural funds for reconstruction in regions which have been devastated , particularly appropriations for rural development , for agro-food measures and for forestry .
i took particular note of the proposals concerning objective 2 .
if this disaster had taken place in guatemala or turkey , we could have immediately used the community budget to help the victims , but in our own countries nothing of the kind is possible because there is no suitable budget line with which to do so .
it seems quite natural that given such a disaster , national and european solidarity should go to the help of the devastated regions and those people who have been worst affected .
we would understand completely if you were not able to say anything else given the irresponsible attitude not only of the commission , but also of this parliament , and if you cannot do anything because there is no legal or financial framework for doing so .
mr president , commissioner , europe has undergone a tough ordeal at the start of this millennium .
i would first like to express my heartfelt condolences to the families in mourning as a result of the appalling weather conditions that devastated europe in december .
it is europe 's duty to support them and thereby complement the efforts of the governments of member states affected by the disaster .
the community action programme for civil protection , established by a council decision on 9 december , was launched on 1 january 2000 .
our priority , as we wait for community-level funds to be freed up , is for material aid in terms of partnership exchanges between member states .
this is a very sad opportunity for europe to renew its forestry heritage in line with the role that this plays in wildlife and nature conservation and in our economies .
it is therefore a time for solidarity and cooperation between member states in the face of an ecological and economic calamity .
the hurricane of the same name swept across europe claiming numerous victims , mainly in france and germany , but also in switzerland , leaving a trail of destruction in its wake .
mr president , commissioner , permit me , first of all , to make reference to two facts .
the citizens of the european union expect solidarity , also from within this community .
indeed the european parliament must make it its business to uphold this right in hours of need .
the european union needs rules governing environmental liability as a matter of urgency .
we can no longer tolerate a situation where the general public has to foot the bill for damage that has often been caused by individuals involved in criminal machinations .
then , for example , people will think twice before transporting oil in a tanker that is about to fall apart .
when , in 1994 , over five years ago that is , i joined the legal affairs committee in this parliament , i became rapporteur for the environmental liability dossier .
there is certainly a need for european civil protection , and the eu budget must also provide for a budget line covering natural disasters .
secondly , we welcome the solidarity between the french departments and citizens , and the solidarity of other countries with france , which is the country worst affected .
therefore europe must be clearly committed to the kyoto protocol and make specific proposals .
first of all , we would like to express sympathy with all the families and communities that lost members in this terrible tragedy .
i want to thank the commissioner for his comprehensive statement on the subject and his suggestion that we might indeed organise ourselves at european level to give assistance to member states and regions that have tragedies like this .
it was not able to do very much but it was repeatedly abused by members of this house proposing action when the disasters were not even major .
we had floods in ireland also and i want to express my sympathy with the people in ireland who suffered from these .
it is true that there was a joint decision by the council and parliament seeking to discontinue emergency lines .
mr president , commissioner , when we compare the frequency with which storms occur in other parts of the world with our own situation , we see that europe gets off relatively lightly .
nevertheless , the storms that took place in the last week of december showed us what the consequences can be and that there are major problems in store for us .
i would therefore like to extend my sympathy to all those citizens in the regions where the storms raged so furiously , and at the same time , from my position here in this chamber , point to how important it is to support these regions and people .
i thank the commissioner and support him very much in his european protection force .
mr president , commissioner , i second all those who expressed their solidarity with the storm victims .
mr president , i would first like to thank you for proposing to extend this debate in order to see it through .
next , i would like to say that as a commissioner , but also as a french citizen , i have been very touched by the expressions of sympathy and solidarity that i have heard from many european members of parliament from throughout the union .
this money is available now , this year .
if the national authorities do their job properly , and i am sure that they will , we will be able to raise appropriations for specific problems and projects from the middle of 2000 and in the next few years .
this money is plentiful , even if it cannot , according to objective 2 , cover all the areas affected .
finally , i would like to say - or repeat - that not all of these disasters necessarily have natural causes .
i would like to thank you , mr president , and parliament , for giving the commission the opportunity to state its views .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will be taken at noon on thursday .
food safety the next item is the communication on food safety and a statement by the commission .
mr president , i am very pleased to take this first available opportunity of outlining to parliament the main lines of the commission 's white paper on food safety , adopted on wednesday last , 12 january , in association with my colleague , mr liikanen .
the white paper represents three to four months of intensive work since the new commission was appointed last september .
the commission is fully committed to restoring that confidence by putting in place the most up-to-date and effective food safety regime in the world .
between the agro-food sector and the farming sector there are over 10 million employees .
this crisis of confidence has also had the unfortunate but inevitable effect of eroding the trust of consumers in the systems and institutions at national and european level that should monitor and assure the highest standards of food safety .
we will also need the fullest support from the council and other key stakeholders .
all of these measures are designed to make it more coherent , understandable and flexible .
we want to promote better enforcement of that legislation and to provide greater transparency to consumers .
the detailed action plan on food safety in the white paper sets a precise timetable for action over the next three years .
over 80 measures are envisaged .
we are also envisaging the establishment of a european food authority by 2002 as an essential complement to the new food safety regime .
the chapter of the white paper devoted to the establishment of a european food authority is clearly designed to elicit views and comments .
i will return to this process of consultation in a few moments .
we must also ensure excellence and transparency .
we must create a permanent and truly independent , excellent and transparent system of risk assessment .
the key task of the authority will be risk assessment in the area of food safety .
they may not be transferred in their present form or structure - this is an issue on which we will elicit views before making our definitive proposals on the authority 's establishment .
as the white paper makes clear , the new authority must be a value-added structure .
these include a comprehensive information gathering and surveillance function , the coordination of scientific information in the eu , and building up strong networks with food safety agencies and bodies in member states .
there are also those who argue that the commission could effectively ignore the advice of the new authority .
i can assure you here today that the commission , in exercising its risk management functions , will fully take account of the scientific advice of the authority .
i have already said that the authority will be charged with developing networks with national food safety agencies and bodies in the member states .
the authority must become the authoritative source of scientific advice and information on food safety issues .
as an integral part of a value-added structure , the white paper proposes that the authority would have a major role in risk communication : to disseminate complex scientific information in a consumer-friendly way ; to be the obvious and indispensable port of call for the most up-to-the-minute data on risk ; to be highly visible ; to tell the good news story about food ; to be proactive .
the white paper also contains very important proposals in respect of controls .
i want to see a genuine internal market operating in the control arena .
this revised community framework would have three core elements : operational criteria set up at community level , community control guidelines , and enhanced administrative cooperation in the development and operation of control .
as part of our proposals in this area - which i expect to bring forward at the end of this year - i will be examining whether additional powers in addition to infringement procedures need to be given to the commission .
these proposals must be seen as part of our mission to have the highest food safety standards in the world , boost consumer confidence and increase markets for farmers and producers in the union .
in addition to the proposals for a new european food authority and an enhanced control system at community-level , the white paper proposes an action plan with a wide range of measures to improve and bring coherence to the community 's legislation , covering all aspects of food products from farm to table .
it sets out over 80 separate actions that are envisaged over the period ahead and intends to close identified loopholes in current legislation .
i look forward to having a useful exchange of views this afternoon with the members of parliament who would clearly have preferred to do this last week if there had been an appropriate parliamentary forum available .
but i know too that we will have many further opportunities in the coming months to consider the white paper 's proposals on the authority .
parliament will have a key part to play in this debate .
parliament played a crucial role in europe 's response to the bse crisis .
it has especially active since then in bringing citizens ' concerns about food safety issues to the fore .
it is essential that the commission should have the benefit of parliament 's contribution to the shaping of what would be a key component of raising consumer health protection to a new plane and thereby restoring consumer confidence in the european union 's food safety regime .
the european food authority will be a key ingredient in the eu 's food safety regime in the years ahead .
but there is one word that i have not heard you mention here tonight .
some sectors of the food industry clearly need better regulation and that is clear on the issue of feed and animal feedingstuffs .
mrs ahern raised the issue of liability .
the rapid alert system for feed is something that we have identified as a gap in the legislation .
there is a reference to applicant states and that is something that we have in mind .
standards of food safety and indeed other areas of safety are obviously of critical importance in relation to enlargement and this is a matter that i have drawn to the attention of mr verheugen .
of course , we are not in a position to dictate anything in terms of content , but i would insist on parliament retaining the rights accorded it under maastricht and amsterdam , and even extending them .
some may take the view that it would be inappropriate for parliament or members of parliament - or indeed parliament nominees - to be members of the board .
mr florenz also raised the question of anonymity .
consumers in the european union must know of the existence of the food authority .
i suspect that the question is focused on the issue of where the competence of the authority begins and ends and where the competence and authority of food safety agencies in member states begin and end .
there are a number of things that undermine consumer confidence - lack of information is one .
but information which includes a fundamental disagreement between scientists on core issues relating to food safety is also an issue of serious concern .
we must attempt to avoid that and establish the structures so as to ensure that there is a proper dissemination of information between scientists , that there is full consultation and discussion and that the authority at community level has the opportunity and is mandated to seek the advice and opinion of independent scientists in all member states and indeed maybe even beyond , where experts are to be found elsewhere .
i recognise that the feo is located in dublin and , although i come from that part of the world myself , i have to accept that it is not the centre of europe !
the food safety authority 's situation is quite different .
an important part of the communication between the two institutions will obviously be to ensure that those of us who are involved in the drafting of legislation understand clearly and perfectly what it is the scientists mean , what problems they have identified , what legislation is necessary to deal with the issues they raise .
on this occasion we have had six minutes of questions from the floor of the house and we have had 29 minutes of response by the commissioner , and his statement .
that concludes the debate .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0003 / 2000 ) .
the commission acknowledges the fact that turkey has signed and ratified the convention on nuclear safety and recognises that the responsibility for granting licences and regulating the siting , construction , commissioning , operation and decommissioning of nuclear power plants in turkey rests entirely with the turkish atomic energy authority .
the commission does not have a mandate to impose any limits on decisions taken by any country in terms of energy production , including the nuclear option .
as commissioner wallstrom indicated during the hearings in the european parliament in september 1999 , the commission will bring up the issue of nuclear safety and radiation protection in any relevant meeting with the turkish government in the future and i am happy to inform you that i will have a meeting with the turkish foreign minister in a couple of days and will certainly raise the issue .
according to information received from the international atomic agency , the design of the plant takes into account the possibility of earthquakes stronger than any ever recorded in the area and particularly more than ten times stronger than the one registered in june 1998 in adana .
in this sense , all high seismic risk areas must be excluded a priori for nuclear installations such as this .
therefore , and given that the relationship between the european union and the commission and turkey has now changed , it would be a good idea if turkey discussed certain matters relating both to the safety of the area in general and the peaceful development of turkey within the european union .
a couple of weeks ago we had a debate in parliament on the nuclear safety issue with special regard to the candidate countries .
so what we did was use political means to convince some candidate countries that we have to have decommissioning plans for some reactors that are considered not to be upgradable .
if the conclusion is that turkey is planning to build a nuclear power plant that does not meet normal european safety standards is concerned then we would do the same as we did with lithuania , slovakia and bulgaria .
i believe that turkey completely recognises the standards and the criteria of the convention on nuclear safety and the non-proliferation treaty , but there is no doubt that there are concerns in the public in europe and i think it is quite right to discuss them here in parliament .
question no 29 by ( h-0786 / 99 ) : subject : depleted uranium weapons has the commission conducted any studies of the potential effects upon eu states of transboundary pollution arising from the use of depleted uranium weapons in the kosovan conflict ?
the commission has also been closely associated with the production of the recent report published by the united nations environment programme - balkan task force .
the balkan task force was hampered by the fact that little or no information was available on the actual use of these weapons during the conflict .
first of all , mr president , can i thank the commissioner for that very useful response .
clearly the commission has given some consideration to this problem and i am pleased that these reports which have been produced so far have looked carefully at the issue .
that is also mentioned in the report .
it is important to follow up and it gives the member states , as well as the united nations and the commission , something to think about when it is a matter concerning military secrets and their effects on the environment .
it also has a long-term effect on thinking when it comes to the use of these sorts of weapons .
i wanted to ask the commissioner whether it is true that soldiers of the nato armed forces now stationed in that region undergo special controls against nuclear radiation and that the same measures are not applied to civilians living in the area ?
what we know from the environmental side is what i have already mentioned , that there is now an environmental reconstruction plan , but when it comes to medical check-ups i do not have the information about that .
question no 30 by ( h-0793 / 99 ) : subject : appointment of a european union envoy for tibet in 1998 the tibetan government in exile received over 4000 tibetans who escaped over the himalayan mountains seeking freedom and refuge at risk of life and limb .
we are also doing a number of other things : in the european union-china human rights dialogue , we have focused on a number of practical steps , including sending experts on assignment to tibet , planning development assistance programmes and activities focusing on health , education and training for tibetans .
the appointment of an eu special envoy for tibet would be primarily a matter for the council to decide and parliament might care to take the issue up directly with them .
but for my part , i am not sure that it would add much practical value to our efforts .
it would be unlikely to have much impact on the chinese authorities and we already have effective channels of communication with the tibetan community in exile .
mr president , mr patten , of course , you are very well-qualified to comment on account of the time you spent in china , and you are well aware of how hard the tibetans are trying to initiate a debate , something which has always been blocked hitherto .
the possibility of stressing the importance of business and trade in the first place , but also making very sure that we include human rights in the equation , would be a step we should take in tandem with the european commission , rather than saying that it is a matter for the council .
let me make clear to the honourable member what the position is .
i am very much hoping in the next few months that the commission will be able to produce a communication on human rights pointing out , among other things , that there is no disjunction whatsoever between a regard for human rights in china or other places in the world and the trading and commercial interests and other interests of the european union .
during the few months that i have been a commissioner that has happened twice , first of all in new york at our meeting with minister tang and most recently at the meeting in peking and we will continue to make that concern manifest .
we are not just talking about human rights and the environment where tibet is concerned , rather it is about a unique cultural heritage that is also able to communicate important values such as peace , serenity , compassion - as the dalai lama would say - to us europeans .
like the honourable member i have read the autobiography of the dalai lama .
it is an extremely moving account , not just of his responsibilities in and towards tibet but also of his spiritual views as well .
at or around the time of president clinton 's visit to china , the president of the people 's republic of china gave the impression that dialogue was on the agenda .
it would be very beneficial , not just for tibet and for all those who believe in peace and stability in asia , but it would also be greatly to the credit of the government of the people 's republic of china if they were to respond to those attempts to begin a dialogue .
question no 31 by ( h-0795 / 99 ) : subject : commission 's rejection of legislation on proper administration in the eu according to newspaper reports , the commission has rejected the proposal by eu ombudsman jacob soderman for a citizens ?
in november 1999 the commission approved at first reading a code of good administrative behaviour to be incorporated into its rules of procedure .
at the moment the commission is consulting its staff representatives on the document , a process which will be finalised in the forthcoming weeks .
the commission will then adopt the code at second reading .
it should be noted that the new commission gave an immediate follow-up to the european ombudsman decision of 28 july 1999 in his own-initiative inquiry related to the code .
the commission would like to stress in particular that , in the drafting of the code , it has taken on board all the draft recommendations of the european ombudsman .
the code will be a document exclusively dealing with the relations of the commission 's administration with the public .
the document has been drawn up taking full account of the provisions contained in the draft prepared by the european ombudsman 's office .
however , it goes without saying that the commission adheres to the principle of regular political dialogue with the european parliament on all aspects of administrative reform .
mr president , i would like to thank the commissioner .
i want to thank the commission for what i perceive as a very positive answer .
i can go into that in detail if the honourable member would like but there is no doubt that we are on all fours with the ombudsman on this important issue .
as the author is not present , question no 32 lapses .
question no 33 by ( h-0829 / 99 ) : subject : ' mainstreaming ' in eu aid policy in 1995 the council drew up guidelines for integrating the equal opportunities dimension ( ' mainstreaming ' ) into the full range of eu aid policy .
the commission is prepared to look at the possibility of making an introduction to gender and development , part of the so-called induction courses for new staff , something that has been done already but not , i admit , on a regular basis .
the training of staff moving to the delegations in the different regions is another entry point .
the training then would be automatically performed without being compulsory .
we also aim to include training in these issues in the basic training that our officials receive in project cycle management .
as far as possible , we want to see this sort of training automatically built into programmes at the outset , instead of having to be tackled separately and later .
my own view as a former development minister is that these issues should be mainstreamed themselves and tackled at the heart of training and not turned into a sort of optional add-on .
the quest for equality should permeate the work of the directorate-general for development at all levels .
it is not to be brought in as a " sort of optional add-on " .
equality must permeate not only projects and programmes but also all overarching goals , action plans and strategies .
however , responsibility for ensuring that due attention is given to equality lies with departmental and unit managers .
i must not go on about books , but i have just been reading the book by david landis barnhill on what makes some countries prosperous and some countries less prosperous and it is interesting to see there the importance that he attaches to gender issues , in the economic prosperity and political stability of societies , going back millennia .
thirdly , one of the best approaches to this issue is to integrate gender as an important and cross-cutting issue into the most popular courses for development officials and above all perhaps for the project cycle management course which is key to good management of projects on the ground .
question no 34 by ( h-0831 / 99 ) : subject : aid for central asia what development aid and what humanitarian aid does the commission grant to the countries of central asia , and what is its assessment of the impact of this aid ?
the major part of european union aid has been provided under the tacis programme .
in 1998 and 1999 kyrgyzstan , kazakhstan , uzbekistan and turkmenistan received technical assistance of eur 75 million .
this assistance has delivered benefits in all sectors , in particular agriculture , infrastructure development , the private economy and the strengthening of institutions .
in addition to national programmes , the european union has supported important regional actions in the energy , transport and environmental sectors .
these programmes have benefited kyrgyzstan and to a more limited extent , tajikistan .
over the same period , kyrgyzstan received eur 17 million .
since 1993 the commission 's european community humanitarian office , echo , has been active in supporting the most vulnerable groups and sectors in tajikistan and kyrgyzstan .
in 1998 and 1999 eur 3.8 million was granted to kyrgyzstan and tajikistan received over eur 35 million , mainly for food , medical supplies , water and sanitation .
frequent monitoring and situation assessments have shown that european union assistance is contributing to the stability of these countries and therefore the ongoing peace process .
mr president , commissioner , there is a risk of central asia and the caspian sea becoming the balkans of the 21st century .
i can send the honourable member , if he would like , a detailed breakdown of exactly where we stand on the negotiation of partnership and cooperation agreements with each of the central asian republics .
he is absolutely right to say that a union which talks about conflict prevention should be looking at what it can do in these particular areas to ensure that there is not the sort of conflict in the future which has caused so much devastation in the balkans and which has cost us a great deal more than we might have had to spend otherwise , had we taken more pre-emptive measures if those had been possible .
our food programmes are directly related to structural reforms in agriculture as well as poverty alleviation .
those programmes themselves are intended to ensure that agriculture has a more soundly based position in those societies and does not consist simply of raping the land .
question no 35 by ( h-0778 / 99 ) : subject : greek action plan for employment according to the findings of the evaluation of action plans for employment , greece and italy are the main targets for criticism from the commission for not properly carrying out employment support measures and policies .
as far as mr papayannakis ' question is concerned , in the 1999 action plan for employment , the commission proposed certain recommendations for greece with a view to improving the efficiency of the action plan for employment .
the most important recommendations related to the need to improve efforts to reform public sector services , where problems exist , improve the statistical monitoring system and apply preventive policies in accordance with guidelines 1 and 2 of the action plan for employment .
we do not yet have the final results of these programmes and cannot yet tell if the quantitative objectives were achieved .
the greek government acknowledges the problem of its being unable to record human resources entering and leaving work and is therefore committed , firstly , to restructuring public sector employment services in greece , secondly , to setting up efficient employment promotion centres - this programme has already started but has not yet been completed - and , thirdly , to introducing a system of electronic employment cards and using suitable it systems to monitor all these policies .
the commission will keep a close watch on the greek government in order to ensure that it honours the commitments which it has made .
as you know , there are 22 guidelines on which each country is evaluated .
the commission will endeavour , for all these specific guidelines , to quantify the data and to obtain specific information based on the implementation of the new community framework for 2000 to 2006 .
the last meeting on the subject was held in november 1999 and we are waiting for the commission services ' final proposals on whether or not infringement proceedings will be instituted against denmark .
i noticed that the commissioner did not give a direct answer to the question of whether the danish early retirement pension scheme as a whole has been approved by the commission , but it was indirectly apparent that the answer was that it has not been .
the commissioner also more than hinted , of course , that a lot of consideration was being given to bringing the whole issue of the danish early retirement pension scheme before the court of justice in luxembourg , specifically on the grounds that the scheme actually discriminates against non-danish wage earners who are unable to fulfil the conditions , due to the fact that they have not been in paid work for the period required under the danish system .
i should like to ask the commissioner if she can provide any approximate deadlines in connection with this matter , for it is a problem which needs clarification in the context of the danish socio-political debate .
of course it is as you say .
the meetings of the working group are open and the first meeting was held on 11 january 2000 .
this is an important aspect of this initiative .
the last question concerns the amount granted .
mr president , i feel that the guidelines for the community equal initiative , especially the four actions described in it , will result both in complicated bureaucracy and , paradoxically , a non-transparent structure .
for example , one wonders how a development partnership will prove its cooperative spirit or its representative capacity , as required by action 2 in paragraph 33 of the guidelines .
finally , if you consider the overall amount , which is on the small side , - eur 2.8 billion for 15 member states - and how ambitious the objectives are , i am afraid that all we shall succeed in doing is to prove that unemployment is a bad thing .
the ban on discrimination is the rule in the package of directives and programmes which we submitted .
secondly , the leader initiative currently being studied gives special priority to development strategies which aim to give special support to women in small enterprises in the agricultural sector and in rural tourism , with a view to increasing the involvement of women in agricultural regions .
they are areas where there is much need and we have to put them on an equal footing with those areas where we work in cooperation , where almost none exists .
therefore , my question is whether you could examine the possibility that some of the policies on microcredits , which have brought results in cooperation , could be applied to those women in severely less-favoured regions , who have the odds stacked against them .
the lisbon european council is trying to take a new approach to the question of social exclusion and the link between social exclusion and the information society , economic policy and reforms .
these results will be most important in shaping the commission ' s social programme .
i have already told the european parliament that a joint meeting will be held in april between parliament and the commission , after the lisbon conference , so that all aspects can be discussed and the social programme for 2000-2006 can finally be drafted .
where i cannot commit myself is on your reference to legislative work in the social security area which , as you know , is not included in the articles of the treaty and there is no legal basis for social security questions in the treaty .
since the author is not present , question no 43 lapses .
question no 44 by ( h-0819 / 99 ) : subject : opportunities of the disabled to take advantage of freedom of movement within the eu under article 13 of the amsterdam treaty , it should be possible for all eu citizens to take advantage of freedom of movement within the union .
what measures is the commission taking to facilitate opportunities for the disabled in this area ?
as far as the package in question and people with special needs are concerned , there is a directive which concentrates on combating discrimination , especially in the workplace .
the european commission believes that this initiative to combat discrimination will help to increase the level of employment of people with special needs and , in the end , to promote the freedom of movement of these persons .
the european commission has approved a proposal for a directive on special arrangements in buses , coaches and other vehicles , so that people with special needs with mobility problems and people using wheelchairs have access to them .
in addition , you should know that , on 4 june 1998 , the council approved the recommendation for a pan-european type of parking permit to be introduced for people with special needs , the aim of which is to help them travel in all member states with a common permit so that they can take advantage of all organised parking areas throughout europe .
i think that a strategic decision of this sort can be taken at european level .
question no 45 by ( h-0006 / 00 ) : subject : compliance with directive 96 / 71 / ec concerning the posting of workers the posting of workers directive has still not been implemented in denmark , even though the deadline has passed .
however , such use of an agreement outside its specific scope cannot be imposed on the two sides of industry without a legal basis .
the european union posting of workers directive stipulates that the compulsory rules concerning the terms and conditions of employment applicable in the host country must also apply to workers posted to that country .
because denmark does not have a system for declaring collective agreements to be universally applicable rules , provision must be made in the implementing legislation so that , apart from current conditions of employment stipulated in legislation , the hours in universally applicable collective agreements , concluded by the most representative organisations , also apply to posted workers .
discussions are being held between the european commission and denmark , and denmark is expected to notify the commission of the transposition of this directive into its national legislation .
the deadline by which it had to answer the commission ' s questions expired on 6 december 1999 and we have not received a reply .
it is a very clear answer , but it is also an answer , may i point out , which puts danish organisations , the danish government and the danish parliament in a very , very difficult situation politically , for it is a well-known fact that there are a number of basic problems associated with the relationship between the danish model , which is based quite obviously upon collective agreements , and the continental model , which presupposes legislation .
as i said earlier , there are always problems interpreting the directives of the european commission both because they have a very general framework and because systems are very different from one country to another .
what now needs to be done , and this was the reason for the consultations and discussions between the commission and the danish government , and with other governments , is to find the best way forward , so that something which is decided at european level by all the member states , and which constitutes a general framework , can also include workers posted to denmark from other countries .
since the time allocated to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions 46 to 68 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , early last year , the 1997 discharge was postponed because this parliament could not possibly grant discharge to a resigning commission which could not enter into any commitments for the future .
it is an excellent opportunity for this parliament to introduce far-reaching reforms to these plans .
parliament requires a code of conduct for commissioners and cabinets .
parliament asked the commission to waive its excessive privileges .
these are sound , first steps which illustrate that , if this parliament so wishes , changes are not only possible but can also be translated into action quickly .
in the context of providing information , i would like to draw the commission ' s attention to the fact that we are very concerned about the present draft plans on public access to documents .
if the current draft is correct , then this is a huge step backwards in comparison to today .
this parliament has also asked the commission to give an initial outline of the external aid policy reforms on 31 march of this year .
mr president , since 1996 , the discharge has acquired a heavy , political significance .
mr president , the committee on industry decided to go ahead and draw up a report on the discharge for 1997 although we were not specifically asked to do so .
during the course of our work on this report it became clear that there are persistent problems in the spending areas under the control of our budget .
but we need that reform process .
it is an excellent report and we should all congratulate her on it .
there are two issues i would like to draw your attention to .
the committee of independent experts said the commission was not managing this properly .
the second point is about scrutiny mechanisms .
we need proper information , given in a proper way and we all have to take this whole process a lot more seriously than in the past .
it has been seen as a bureaucratic process to be done as quickly as possible in as little time as possible .
i hope colleagues in this house will support the grounds for discharge for 1997 and , at the same time , that the commission will push ahead with the reform process which is long overdue .
mr president , parliament now has to reach a decision , in plenary sitting , on whether to grant the commission the discharge for the 1997 financial year that was refused on 4 may last year .
i have taken note of what mrs schreyer had to say this morning on the complaint against the two banks and the support for creating protection under criminal law of the financial interests of the eu .
in addition , and after all this is important as far as the general impression held by the people is concerned , there is the fact that so far - at least as far as i know - the court of auditors has been unable to deliver a positive statement of assurance since this instrument was introduced .
it is , above all , the forthcoming enlargement of the eu to include the states of central and eastern europe that will produce far-reaching problems and impose burdens on internal structures and administrative developments .
as rapporteur for the 1998 budget , i would like to give advance warning that , in the course of the next few weeks and months , i intend to keep a very close eye on how and whether the commission implements its reform proposals and how it shapes relations with parliament in this very area .
the socialist group will be voting to grant discharge .
too often we have put forward recommendations and they have not been acted upon even though you have said very often that you will act on them .
one issue which is referred to in the van der laan report is the whole question of the gaza hospital .
the situation there is totally unacceptable .
i would like to congratulate lousewies van der laan .
mr kinnock will present his proposal next month .
the previous speaker already said something about this .
finally , mr president , the 1996 discharge was the beginning of the end of the last commission .
the union for a europe of nations group cannot vote for approving the accounts for 1997 .
again , i must say that we are concerned here with an extremely unfortunate confusion of the old commission ' s accountability for 1997 and the new commission ' s accountability for the future .
it was the 1996 accounts which led to the downfall of the previous commission , and the 1997 accounts are just as incriminating .
as far as the decision to balance the accounts is concerned , we shall abstain from voting , and where , finally , the motion for a resolution is concerned , we shall attach most importance to the many correct instructions contained in this and vote in favour of it .
if parliament votes in favour of the committee on budgetary control ' s proposal this week and grants discharge , then the commission must not take this to be a blank cheque .
for it is the third section of mrs van der laan ' s report that is the most important , to my mind , namely the motion for a resolution .
on 7 january 1994 , high-ranking officials in the commission took the decision to largely waive the penalty which the company concerned was actually due to pay and which amounted to almost eur 18 million .
this is also one of those cases that should be referred to the competent judicial authorities since , when all is said and done , allowing documents and minutes to disappear is no trivial offence but is expressly made a punishable offence in article 241 of the belgian criminal code .
mr president , we all recall that parliament decided to postpone the discharge for the 1997 financial year pending commitments from the new european commission regarding internal reform .
however , the reform of the european commission must now be taken in the context of the debate that is going to take place in the run-up to the forthcoming intergovernmental conference and the reform of various eu policies and initiatives .
mr president , the commission is now to obtain its discharge for 1997 , but in reality it does not deserve it . 1997 was a matter for the old commission and , therefore , the new commission does not think that it can accept liability .
mr president , rapporteur , ladies and gentlemen , i hope that i am able to answer the question as to whether we deserve to have the discharge granted in the affirmative .
mrs van der laan ' s report addresses all these instruments .
the report is very ambitious .
i would now like to look more closely at a number of points contained in the report .
we have debated this at great length in committee and also in the framework of the budgetary procedure for the year 2000 .
the commission has promised parliament that it will introduce measures in this regard in the very near future .
my fellow commissioner , mr chris patten , together with the other commissioners responsible for foreign policy , set up a review group , only at the end of last year , which is to undertake a very swift analysis of the tasks performed by the current technical assistance offices and consider which of the tasks should be carried out in a different form in future .
i undertook , back in the debate on the court of auditors ' report , to take up this point , which also features in this report - namely , carrying out a systematic follow-up - because i consider it to be necessary .
i would just like to again mention the staffing increase for which provision has been made in budget 2000 .
as far as the issues surrounding the gaza hospital and the palestinian parliament are concerned , i am able to tell you that the gaza hospital will be open and available to out-patients as of 15 july and to in-patients from 15 october 2000 .
all the reform measures i have mentioned are part of a global approach .
parliament ' s task is to supervise the activities of the commission , particularly within the framework of the discharge procedure .
the commission is very well aware of how resolutely and scrupulously the european parliament is exercising this supervision .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
on 15 march the committee published its first report concluding that : " it is becoming difficult to find anyone who has even the slightest sense of responsibility . "
within a few hours of the presentation of the report president santer announced the resignation of his entire team .
the resignation marked the end of a bitter struggle between an increasingly confident parliament and a european commission mired in allegations of scandal .
in a symbolic but significant gesture commissioners have voluntarily renounced their entitlement to the tax-free purchase of alcohol , tobacco , petrol and consumer goods .
the commission , in my opinion , has shown a clear and unprecedented commitment to change and for this they are to be congratulated .
the overall aim of the reforms must be to create a strong , honest european public administration equipped to carry out its tasks in an effective and efficient manner ; an administration in which officials are provided with the means to carry out their tasks and are held fully accountable at all levels ; an administration that recognises and rewards merit and encourages officials to develop their full potential .
in order to achieve this , action is required in four areas .
a new independent audit system service must be set up .
changes to the financial regulation will be required and parliament must have its say on those changes .
but while the commission must ensure that it respects the treaty and the financial regulation in the transitional phase , this must not be an excuse for inertia .
this requires a clear example to be set by commissioners and senior staff as well as adequate training and secondly , by reinforcing the existing mechanisms for dealing with fraud .
a proposal can be made , a proposal should be made , on the basis of article 280 of the treaty , by the middle of this year .
the european institutions should follow the example of a number of countries , most notably the united kingdom , and institute a committee for standards in public life , with a mandate to give advice on professional ethics and rules of conduct in the european institutions .
finally , the commission 's human resource policy must be modernised .
it is clearly no longer suited to the requirements of a modern , multinational organisation .
the social dialogue has often acted as a brake on reform and its overhaul is long overdue .
too many young , new officials are leaving their jobs after just a few years .
it must become more flexible and more responsible to labour market conditions .
commissioner kinnock will , tomorrow , present his communication on reform .
this communication must contain a clear timetable .
with a new commission and a new parliament up and running the momentum for reform is now as strong as it ever has been and probably ever will be .
now is the time for europe to put its own house in order ; to instil in its institutions - as the independent experts might have said - a sense of responsibility .
there is a very simple way to deal with those stories .
i would point out that there is no european legal system , but that a different legal system exists in each member state .
i agree that an investigation system should be introduced , but i am also absolutely convinced that we must recognise the right to equal respect for dignity and , in any case , the equal need for the right to a defence .
in conclusion , mr president , parliament must introduce a principle of democracy : we must implement reforms which allow parliament to grow and expand its powers , not go into reverse .
this debate on the van hulten report brings to a close one of the most traumatic periods for the european institutions since their creation in 1957 .
the refusal of the european parliament to grant discharge and the definitive refusal for the 1996 budget ; the motion of censure tabled in this house a year ago for differing reasons ; and the first report of the committee of independent experts on the reform of the commission which led to the mass resignation of the commission itself , are now part of european folklore .
now we come to the second report of the committee of independent experts which we already had the opportunity to welcome and briefly debate last september .
the knowledge that the framework relations between the european parliament and the european commission still remain to be negotiated led to our disagreement with the rapporteur when we debated his report in committee .
the less precise , mr van hulten , we are in our resolutions , the more room it gives the commission and your former colleagues in the council to do what they like .
we believe the vast number of recommendations of the wise men ' s report should be implemented .
we have , as the epp-ed group , submitted all the recommendations of the wise men ' s report in committee and many of them have now been put into the report , entirely changing the nature of the van hulten report in committee .
we have resubmitted a few amendments which fell in committee , in particular , our desire to see the codes of conduct revised specifically to include the reference to merit and managerial capacity which you , commissioner , accepted - when we had our hearings last september - should be included in these codes of conduct , particularly when considering appointments and promotion .
looking to the future , we know that we are at the beginning of a long process of continuing reform in the european commission .
but , equally , we will not hesitate to withdraw our support financially or otherwise should steps be taken which do not correspond to the openness promised by commission president romano prodi prior to his nomination .
can i first thank mr van hulten for this report .
it is an excellent report .
i should like to thank commissioner kinnock for all his efforts so far .
it is clear that this needs to be developed at all levels and it needs to recognise the needs of each level within the commission .
it is clear that we need to see a change in the financial regulation .
this is natural elsewhere but it seems to be an extremely radical suggestion when it is put to the commission .
i will give you one example of this .
in the 1998 court of auditors report an exchange rate miscalculation in relation to italian wine cost the taxpayers of europe gbp 8 to 10 million .
but we also recognise that some of the practices are outdated .
the european parliament has not exactly been clean in its approach to things throughout its history .
our own staff policy is outdated .
we recognise that means discipline on the part of commission officials and we recognise also that we have a responsibility within parliament on discipline when we talk about negative priorities .
the fate of the commission , of the whole european union , rests on delivery of this reform .
it is his first report here in plenary .
in my opinion , this is mainly down to the wrangling between the two major groups within our committee on budgetary control .
he went back to work , rewrote his report and took into account the very many suggestions , but had to face nearly another 100 amendments in the second round .
mr van hulten , my group of the greens and regionalists will support the attempts in tomorrow afternoon ' s plenary meeting to embellish this report .
after all , it makes no sense to copy the many sound recommendations made by the committee of wise men word for word in your report .
so tomorrow , if we vote against some amendments or against specific paragraphs , this is certainly not on account of their content but rather to render your report as a whole more readable .
in any case , it should be clear that my group , of course , fully backs the recommendations made by the committee of wise men .
i think that there is a need for this , as public opinion is looking for change and , in any event , my group would like to see a clear change by the end of 2002 .
mr president , this report is positive but , actually , we need more than this .
this is only useful as long as there is a sense of solidarity where rich member states contribute to both the revenue and development of poorer member states .
districts and regional authorities consider this as their own money but they can only get their hands on this by investing vast amounts of money and manpower in lobbying and negotiating .
even the strictest control cannot solve this problem .
it would be preferable if national governments channelled this money directly to their local governments without a european detour .
mr president , a year has not yet passed , but it is already clear that parliament is going to evaluate the first and second reports differently .
reading now what happened then , not even a year ago , it becomes clear that that first report was intended to do anything but serve the cause of truth or reform , as is maintained today , so much so that this second report - which , on the other hand , could have provided much more salient points - was commissioned with the precise mandate not to address specific cases , since there is no intention to follow up the offences detailed in this report .
it is of no concern to the major groups in parliament , nor to the majority of the trade unions , who are busy discussing the defence of european public administration , but , in practice , are occupied with the corporate protection of their own members , putting the wide powers afforded to them to dubious use .
i therefore understand why we are meeting at this time , which is usually set aside for other activities and not for debates , discussions and the exchange of information .
mr president , in the van hulten report , parliament underlines the harsh necessity for a thorough reform of financial administration .
expenditure must be monitored much more closely , both within the commission and the member states .
the committee of wise men ' s report also has some necessary points to make to the council and parliament .
for example , the council should attach far more importance to the commission ' s discharge procedure .
the question arises as to whether parliament is in fact prepared to find a way out of this impasse .
this week , the rothley opinion was discussed within the legal affairs committee and there was nothing to indicate any such willingness .
this may explain why we experienced more difficulties than anticipated in the committee on budgetary control as regards this issue .
as we see it , there will be a dovetailing of three mechanisms in the future : a system of independent prior approval by the financial controller , concomitant and follow-up control by the internal audit service - also known as the audit service - which has yet to be set up , and finally , there will be the targeted tracking-down of irregularities by olaf , the new anti-fraud office .
it is a good feeling to be able to say that he is from our delegation and i am , i think , entitled to feel a little proud of him .
a lack of responsibility , too much ex ante , not enough ex post and , as a result , far too little in the way of a culture of real effective spending .
there are two points which , in my opinion , deserve special attention on the part of the eldr .
this will contribute hugely towards re-establishing the confidence of the european citizens in this institution .
mr president , i also wish to congratulate mr van hulten on this first piece of work which he is presenting to the house .
i do not know your exact view in this respect , mr kinnock , but it is clear that we want commissioners who are politically strong and politically committed .
we have not done this so far , and this is something you ought to be instrumental in changing .
i do not agree with the paragraphs in relation to parliament .
this report is about the commission .
there is no need for us to bring parliament into the discussion on the commission .
most of the report is about financial control .
but we should not create the impression that vast amounts of european resources are being put at risk by carelessness in the european commission .
we have had all that before but some people in this parliament are young and do not seem to understand how small the financial resources of the european union are and that 80 % of these resources are spent by the member states .
that wider responsibility concerns the management of the environment , food safety , foreign trade , the internal market and so many other responsibilities we have given them without the resources to deal with them .
if there is , we have generated it in this house in the past year .
i have been here for 20 years and found absolute trust between the council , the commission and parliament .
the process of reform has been going on for some time , and something like a state of emergency seems to prevail in the commission .
there is too little action and too much unnecessary bureaucracy .
the financial regulation should be amended .
what we need , then , are basic administrative regulations for the eu , for its institutions and for the eu in its relations with the member states .
the van hulten report is a step in the right direction , but it is not enough .
it is the european parliament which is to carry out the political evaluation .
mr president , i would like to extend a warm thank you to the rapporteur for his report .
these two considerations are diametrically opposed to each other , and i really fail to grasp how such a proposal can end up on the table .
the van hulten report started out as a brilliant one and i would like to pay deep and sincere tribute here to what mr van hulten achieved .
mr president , mr van hulten , your work is worthy of being qualified as enterprising , arduous and complex , and i believe this is important in a first report .
please therefore accept what i am about to say as being criticism made in the spirit of honest debate , and i believe that in this way our debate here today will be richer .
clearly we are awaiting this reform from the commission , we are awaiting the proposals which the commission is going to make to us and this parliament will have to express its opinion on them .
i am not going to mention the length of this report .
i do not believe that there has ever been a resolution - and in this parliament we certainly produce complex resolutions - which has had paragraphs of more than 16 lines without a single full stop .
and finally , mr president , frankly , i am not going to give examples , but there are many cases in which legal language is used with an alarming lack of accuracy .
mr president , the scope and highly detailed nature of the proposals for necessary reform measures show just how important these reforms are .
she knows me well enough to understand that at all stages in the five years in which we worked together in this house , there has never been a single occasion on which i have refused to account in full , formally and in detail for everything i have done .
although new to this house he is relatively old in some respects , certainly in his familiarity with the institutions as a former official - and i think that the value of that is shown by his ability to tackle the complex subject which is of critical importance , as several members have said , to all of our institutions .
naturally i will not take up any more of the time of the house than is absolutely necessary .
when this house considered the second report of the committee of experts last september , i pledged on behalf of the incoming commission that the report would be treated as a fundamental ingredient in the commission 's reform proposals .
though time forbids me , mr president , from commenting in this debate on each element in the resolution before the house , i readily give the assurance that the details will be treated as an important input into our reform proposals throughout this consultation and indeed to our work in other relevant areas .
the need for transparency is rightly stressed , not least because greater transparency in the way in which the commission operates will improve the efficiency and will also demystify what the commission does .
as the house knows and has repeatedly said , the scale and scope of the union 's financial interventions have grown immensely in the past decade without a proportionate increase in staffing or an adjustment in procedures .
several members have made that point again in the course of today 's debate .
the means of doing that are set out in the reform strategy and the commission will present its proposals for a radical recasting of the financial regulation in april .
parliamentary support in pursuing that essential course for change will be absolutely vital .
there are preparations which can be made and they are specified and set out with the full reassurances in the reform strategy , but enactment of change in the legislation is obviously of fundamental importance to the operation of the new system .
essentially - and with legal change - the commission will systematically move away from the current centralised system of prior approval of each financial transaction by the financial controller and instead strengthen the internal control systems within spending departments so that directors-general are better equipped to take responsibility for decisions with an impact on the european union budget .
that service will open on 1 may this year .
it will be headed by a professionally qualified member of the audit profession and its independence must and will be guaranteed through a new provision to be added in the financial regulation .
financial control ' s ex ante visa for each spending department will only be relinquished as and when the internal control system in a department is shown to be fully adequate .
i am somewhat surprised that paragraph 10 of the draft resolution does not appear to address the fundamental criticisms of the current centralised financial control function made in both reports of the committee of independent experts .
that committee was very clear about the need to abolish the centralised ex ante visa .
it was clear too on the need to separate internal audit from financial control .
in addition , i do not believe that paragraph 10 fully reflects the opinion of the court of auditors in 1997 .
at the same time , the internal audit function is carried out in an uncoordinated way by several bodies , notably the same financial controller , the inspectorate general and by some units operating directorates-general . " the centralised ex ante approval system was doubtlessly originally designed to ensure carefulness but , over the years , it has had the perverse effect of reducing the extent to which managers feel responsible for their decisions .
i take it from paragraph 10 that the underlying preoccupation of honourable members is that there should be a carefully managed transition .
our objective , the committee ' s objective , the court of auditors ' objective is not to abolish financial control , it is to get rid of and improve upon centralised financial control .
before leaving this area i would add that we agree with the rapporteur that the existing internal audit function must be maintained pending the establishment of the new independent internal audit service in a matter of months .
turning quickly to the section of the resolution on fighting fraud , corruption , mismanagement and nepotism : the major new proposal of the report concerns reporting by commission officials of perceived wrong-doing .
since june of last year , the olaf regulation has given better guidance to staff about reporting possible irregularities .
i am persuaded , however , by the suggestion in paragraph 34 of the report on using external bodies to enforce existing provisions on financial liability .
a communication in june will set out the full proposal for change .
with the introduction of a series of codes of conduct the current commission has begun to develop an explicit ethical framework .
the draft resolution rightly recalls the commission 's accountability to this parliament .
president prodi and vice-president de palacio and other colleagues have demonstrated the commission 's practical commitment to that .
i hope that we will soon be able to agree a code of conduct on relations between our institutions which will include updated rules on access to documents .
the report rightly emphasises the central importance that human resources policy must have in reform .
i also want to move towards a linear career system because the current category system is no longer adapted to the needs of our institutions .
members , who , in the course of this debate , have properly praised commission officials , who in the great majority and typically are of high integrity , hard-working and of great capability , are absolutely right in the comments that they have made .
while the reform strategy white paper will clearly outline our ideas on these and other points , detail and precision are obviously essential .
on this latter point we are reflecting on whether it might be useful to adopt a framework regulation which makes common provision on leading issues like pay , conditions , staff representation rights and so on , but enables the different institutions to operate implementing rules on other matters .
the early thoughts of parliament on this consultative idea would be especially welcome .
i conclude by referring to paragraph 15 of the resolution before the house relating to the resource requirements of our policies for change .
secondly , it is also clear that reform will require some new investment in training for skills and in technology .
it is also clear that if we take on new tasks - which we will surely be asked to do by the council and parliament - we will have to identify so-called " negative priorities " and drop those negative priorities in order to create spare capacity .
a central feature of the reform will therefore be a more rigorous process for tying the process of priority-setting into resource allocation under a system of activity-based management .
the commission therefore welcomes paragraph 15 of mr van hulten 's report .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.15 p.m. )
peace in the middle east concerns us all , however .
the increase in the number of positive results demonstrates the efficiency of the system and there is a continuing increase in the number of reports .
we are also preparing a communication to instigate a debate on means of ensuring greater security in the information and knowledge society and in combating computer crime .
the debate is closed .
i do not know if you are aware , representatives of the council of ministers , of your responsibility over these last few years , and in 2000 as well , for the plight of the families who live on anchovy fishing in the north of the iberian peninsular .
we should , however , also bear in mind , mr papayannakis , that we cannot act in an area which will have such a big financial impact , armed only with the measures a presidency can propose in the space of six months .
since the author is not present , question no 13 lapses .
this is a dimension which it is difficult to go beyond within the framework of the european union , and especially within the framework of the council .
well , i , and my fellow 35 british conservative meps wish it and would like you to please consider it .
after this interesting exchange of opinions , and in accordance with the rules of procedure , i would like to tell you that questions nos 17 to 27 will be replied to in writing .
one reason for the acceptance of this proposal , and of the campaigns by ngos such as attac , solidar or others which have popularised this proposal , is that it would release resources which could be allocated to development programmes in the poorest countries , in areas such as education or health .
it could act as a kind of asset redistribution in a world where there is both increasing wealth and increasing poverty .
many personalities and institutions have come out in favour of this tax such as the brazilian president , fernando cardoso , the finnish government , the canadian parliament last march and also lionel jospin in 1995 .
this question has been debated in several national parliaments of the eu .
europe must play a role in this new international regulation and i am extremely happy that today , with this debate and this motion , this question is now on the agenda of european construction .
madam president , i do not have a great deal to add on this subject .
mr desir too has mentioned this growing interest on all sides .
but if the tobin tax were to be applied unilaterally in order to prevent attacks on a specific currency , then this tax could not be effective and it could harm the internal financial market .
so the tobin tax can only be effective if there is a sufficient number of industrialised countries which are prepared to participate .
at any rate , the commission is against any attempt to restrict capital movement within the european union .
the tobin tax would not have been able to prevent the crises in the eea in 1992 and 1993 or the crises in the south-east asian currencies in 1997 .
madam president , the debate on a tax on short-term financial actions is not a new one .
furthermore - since we are in this european parliament - if we have still not managed the slightest agreement with regard to the package of fiscal measures proposed by the commission within the european union , how can we expect to achieve a fiscal agreement on an international level ?
this is due to progressive opening up and greater freedom in the international trade in goods and services and also a greater capacity for adequate movement of capital .
there should be no confusion in this debate .
as for the argument that this initiative would increase uncertainty , very short-term capital movements are specifically intended to play on uncertainty and to bet on changes between currencies or various short-term financial assets .
however , i would highlight not only paragraph 9 of the motion , but also paragraph 10 .
however , i agree with the previous speaker that , if paragraph 9 were challenged , this motion would clearly lose its substance .
i would point out that the european union is composed of a large number of industrialised countries and , like mr desir and several other speakers , i feel that the european union which we are forming can take the initiative in this respect .
in the last 30 years , the volume of currency transactions has increased by 83 times : firstly , total global reserves of all central banks barely amounts to one day of foreign exchange trading ; secondly , annual global trade in real goods and services equals just three-and-a-half days of foreign exchange markets out of 350 , that is , 1 % of capital movements are for trade in goods and services and 99 % are for speculation .
of course , this cannot be done in one country ; it cannot be done within the single currency area , but it could be done at international level with global cooperation .
europe , japan and the us - the euro , the yen and the dollar , would constitute , in my opinion , such a block .
madam president , commissioner , a compromise resolution on the usefulness of a tax on international financial flows would constitute a first step towards the essential amendment of many international rules .
i have two or three points to make in this respect .
one of the main demands of the demonstrators in seattle was , rightly , the establishment of this type of tax , and this is not by chance .
we need a tobin tax to give us a fiscal instrument with which we can intervene .
article 73 c of the treaty establishing the european union provides scope for taxation on transactions .
the low rate tobin tax would not cause tax-recycling problems .
madam president , i can assure your parliament that my day-to-day work consists partly of attempting , in conjunction with my offices and colleagues , to completely integrate the financial markets within europe , thus enabling financial transactions to run as easily and smoothly as possible .
if we have not been able to reach agreement internally , i wonder whether we will then be able to convince the other trade partners .
so i believe the best way to tackle the causes is by ensuring , on the one hand , that good governance is observed in the countries in question and that , on the other hand , there is more supervision nationally and internationally in order to avoid these lapses .
my reply to this is that , firstly , countries should honour their pledges , namely make 0.7 % of their gross national product available for development aid and cooperation , so that a great deal more money becomes available than at present for such long-term projects and via a route established for the purpose , namely contributions to development cooperation , and not via an artificial and probably harmful route , namely the tobin tax .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday , 21 january 2000 .
madam president , allow me to remind you that tomorrow will be the second anniversary of the cermis tragedy .
two years ago , in cavalese in italy , an american aeroplane from the aviano nato base cut through the cables of a cable car during a low-flying exercise which exceeded safe limits , causing the deaths of more than 20 europeans .
madam president , it would really be very difficult to imagine a debate which is more in accordance with rule 50 of our rules of procedure .
madam president , i shall speak against this proposal on the grounds of a principle which i consider absolutely vital with regard to observance of the treaties , and with particular regard to article 7 of the treaty of amsterdam .
well , patently , if we do open this debate today , madam president , as you are requesting and as the conference of presidents is requesting , on the basis of rule 50 , we shall then be opening up a fearsome breach in the principle of the freedom and sovereignty of the national states and the free constitution of democratically elected governments , enabling some other majority in this parliament , at some future time , to claim the right to interfere in the formation of a government even though it has assumed power on the basis of free , regular , peaceful and democratic elections within a member state .
mr gollnisch , excuse me , you have one minute .
madam president , i thought i had three minutes .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i have been requested , on behalf of the portuguese presidency of the european union , to state our position to this parliament on the current political situation in austria and its consequences for relations between that country and the union ' s other member states .
the text of this joint statement has a clearly defined scope and purpose : the bilateral relationship between each of these fourteen countries and an austrian government which now comprises members of that country ' s freedom party .
let me remind you of what this statement said . 1 - the governments of the fourteen member states shall not initiate or accept any official bilateral contacts at political level with an austrian government which includes the freedom party . 2 - austrian candidates for posts in international organisations will not have the support of these fourteen countries . 3 - austrian ambassadors in the union ' s capitals will only be received in the technical sense .
basically , the view these states share of the political situation in austria led them to conclude that the possible inclusion in the austrian government of a party such as the freedom party could bring about a change in respect for the common values which the member states of the european union are committed to safeguarding .
those elections showed - and this also needs to be emphasised - that the great majority of austrians are still not in favour of mr haider ' s party .
austria has every right to choose the government it wishes , but we also have a right and duty to state our opinion on any political choices which we feel infringe austria ' s international commitments .
today this applies to austria , but tomorrow it could apply to any other country in the european union . ( applause ) let me repeat that point : this applies to austria today and it would apply tomorrow to any member state of the european union .
it already stated yesterday that it shared the concerns expressed by 14 member states of the union , concerns that have been reiterated here by the representative of the presidency .
the duty of a strong supranational institution is not to isolate one of its members , but instead to permanently bind it to its deep-seated values .
indeed , the european union would not survive without the principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights .
these principles form an integral part of the rule of law , and the commission , which is the guarantor of that rule of law , will be relentless in upholding them .
founded over 900 years ago , bologna university , my alma mater , is the oldest university in the world .
in recognition of this , as the first act of my presidency , i chose to visit auschwitz , in order to say loud and clear , in the silence that is proper and fitting for such a place of memory , that europe has not forgotten , and to repeat that the europe of today and tomorrow is , can only be and will always be a union of freedom , law , security and peace .
we condemn the faux pas he has made in the last few days , especially those against the french president , jacques chirac , and the belgian government .
we , the ppe-de group , champion human dignity , the state under the rule of law , democracy and freedom , and we defend these principles and values across the political spectrum . ( applause ) the christian democrats , who form a key element of our group - and a great many people are probably unaware of this - evolved from the opposition to the totalitarianism of national socialism , which was every bit as inhuman , but also to the totalitarianism of those despisers of mankind , the communists . ( applause ) as the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and of the european democrats , we also represent today the values of the founding fathers of european unification - robert schuman , alcide de gasperi , konrad adenauer and winston churchill , and there were many others - and the values of the founders of europe are our values , even today in the year 2000 .
at this point i would say : we have faith in our austrian friends in the austrian european people ' s party . ( applause ) we must not forget that the european people ' s party , together with alois mock and wolfgang schussel - one was the minister for trade and commerce and the other was the foreign minister - was the party that did the most to pave the way for austria ' s entry into the european union .
we anticipate that a government under the leadership of the ovp , if it comes to that , will represent and uphold the values and principles of our european people ' s party , and these principles constitute an unequivocal declared belief in the dignity of all human beings and in tolerance towards all human beings .
we do not want there to be isolation within europe , rather we want to bring the peoples of europe together , so as to enable the future of our continent in the twenty-first century to be one of freedom , democracy and peace . ( loud applause from the ppe-de group ) madam president , president of the commission , president-in-office of the council , the group of the party of european socialists hopes that this debate will send three messages to the european public .
firstly , we wish to express our total support for , and our solidarity with , the statement of the presidency-in-office of the council and the 14 member states , because we believe that this statement is in accordance with the common values , and not just the political force , which we have all built together .
i also believe that the commission , or president prodi , has acted as a guardian of the treaties .
secondly , madam president , we wish to send a very clear message to the austrian people .
therefore , madam president , i believe that it is our right and our obligation to ask the austrians to reconsider and reflect , because this type of menace , which we have suffered before in europe , may not only harm austria , but it may also spread , and i say this bearing history in mind .
we support the council and we believe that it is our right and our obligation to appeal to the austrian people to seriously reconsider this completely crazy option . ( applause from the pse group ) madam president , my group welcomes this debate because it is a defining moment .
that may be , but let me place on the record today a long and difficult experience which we liberal democrats had with the austrian fpo in our liberal international family .
words in politics can be incendiary , can be inflammatory , or can be conciliatory .
we respect the rights of the austrian people to their own democratic process .
we defend the rights and constitutional prerogatives of the austrian people , but we here in the european parliament have the duty to recall our fundamental values as set out in article 6 of the treaty - the values of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights .
every right-thinking person in this house believes that these are universal and indivisible without regard to colour , class or creed .
i share with president prodi a preference for the community method and we must look at article 6 and article 7 of the treaty .
article 7 talks about the possibility of suspension in the event of serious or persistent breaches of our fundamental values .
then we can work together by the community method to root out this cancer within our midst .
mr schussel - you are assuming a very serious , personal , national and european responsibility .
finally , madame president , this is a debate which touches on the heart of our democratic values and institutions and calls to mind that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance .
for the first time , the european union is facing the possibility of having representatives in the council of ministers and here among us of a party which obviously holds views and puts forward legislation contrary to the values of the european union .
i feel , finally , that this is a case of political decline of the european union as such and it therefore also sends a negative message outside the union , when we are speaking in the name of democracy and human rights .
i have heard , mr poettering , that you have been following events in austria .
the european union has certainly previously known situations where there were people in a member state government whose ideas and actions were in contradiction to the guiding values of the union .
the great joining of forces in protest in vienna on 12 november last year must now undergo developments suited to the new situation .
this debate is now before us , but each and every one of us , male and female , is going to assume their responsibilities without delay . ( applause ) madam president , we could have been debating the need to reinforce the founding principles of the union , so that we can uphold them together .
we believe in europe , while it seems that others have started the process of breaking up the union .
if we were to apply the criteria of articles 6 and 7 or the copenhagen criteria to the european union , then , most certainly , this european union could not become a member , although the countries of eastern europe are required to meet them .
we might well wonder why 76 % of belgian citizens have no faith in the justice system in their country or why 56 % of french citizens have no confidence in their country ' s system of justice , and 53 % of italian citizens have absolutely no confidence in italian justice ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) madame president , my group , the edd , and especially my party , are very concerned by this debate .
we also , however , deplore the fact that your parliament should consider interfering in the policies of an elected government of any country , especially one which is part of the european union .
then , and only then , might you consider if human rights are affected .
your parliament may consider measures appropriate to counter that situation and then , madame president and only then , may your parliament consider interfering in the constitutional affairs of a country of the european union .
madam president , as a representative of the freedom party , i respect the concerns some of my fellow meps have with regard to the democratic developments in austria .
the fpo party is established in austria ' s political landscape .
what many austrians are wondering today is why their democratic decision has suddenly been interpreted as an expression of a fascistic cast of mind , and why the campaign did not begin until the freedom party rejected the support of a minority government comprising the spo ?
i am filled with disgust when certain of our opponents get mileage out of the millions of deaths that took place in the gas chambers of the concentration camps as cheap propaganda , as , for example , the italian mep bertinotti did yesterday on italian tv when he accused mr haider of denying the holocaust .
the attacks against austria ' s new government and the attempts to exert political influence in a member state are an insult to the austrian people .
the austrian people ' s party , which i represent here in this parliament , used to be and still is a party that has consistently spoken up for the integration of my country into the eu and feels deeply attached to the community of values that is the european union , and likewise its basic political principles of deepening and enlargement .
a declared belief in human rights , democracy and the rule of law , in an honest reappraisal of austria ' s role in the past , in passing on information on the gravest crime against humanity in the 20th century , the holocaust , will also be reflected in the fundamental accord underlying a future coalition government between the ovp and fpo .
i believe - as do many who for years have campaigned against haider and his brand of politics , and especially my colleagues in the social democratic delegation in this chamber - that the various measures announced by the international community , insofar as they do not have any bearing on the government and its representatives , are grave and also inappropriate .
and that includes their representatives in this parliament .
however , in my view , he will be no more able or willing to be integrated into this , into our political system , and into the europe of today , than any other extreme right-wing movement .
we know that most austrians respect these values .
the fact that we are stressing this is all the more important because , as you know , we essentially disagree with the policies made by europe , with its economic and social policies , its democratic deficit and the member states ' involvement in the terrible war in the balkans .
the position taken by the presidency has shown that it is aware of this tragedy for civilisation .
madam president , despite the fundamental democratic principle of the respect for human rights and the freedom and sovereignty of peoples , which opposes fascism , nazism or communism , both new and old , and despite all the previous speakers talking about the sovereignty of the austrian people , we are today witnessing this sovereignty being denied by parliament .
in the manifesto of the austrian democratic freedom party , there is nothing to justify the accusations that it is attacking the principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights , fundamental freedoms or the rule of law , enshrined in article 6 of the treaties .
we are debating nothing less than the presence in a member state ' s government of a political force whose doctrine and principles are incompatible with the conceptual and moral bases of the union enshrined in its founding treaties .
a simple reading of chapter 4 , article 1 of the austrian freedom party ' s manifesto is enough to make any democratic conscience shudder .
the question is whether the union can remain indifferent to the formation of a government in a member state which includes such a party .
our answer to this crucial question is no .
the one and only significance of the european union is the will to transcend the atrocious history of the twentieth century which gave the coup de grace to any ideal of humanism within the heart of europe , and which is still highly topical today .
of course , the treaty provides us with a barrier when things become intolerable ; i was almost going to say ' irreparable ' .
madam president , i am pleased about the fact that , in austria , the will of the large majority of the people is being respected and that this formation of government constitutes , in my eyes , a huge victory for democracy .
let there be no doubt about it : we decline with thanks a europe which develops into a kind of " big brother " and which keeps watch over left-wing political correctness in one member state or another in a stalinist way and using stalinist methods .
today , we thank the austrian people for this democratic triumph which is important to all nations within europe and to anyone who feels particularly strongly about freedom and freedom of speech .
my delegation of 37 conservative and unionist members from the united kingdom reject absolutely the underlying philosophy , programme and tone of austria ' s freedom party .
madam president , representative of the council , commissioner , a week ago , the big international holocaust conference ended in stockholm .
secondly , i want to say that we must be consistent in our own behaviour and in our evaluations .
it is not acceptable to continue as if nothing had happened .
the austrian freedom party leader , mr haider , has repeatedly repudiated these values .
we keep reminding them about article 6 of the treaty .
first of all , could i express my thanks on behalf of president prodi and my colleagues in the commission for the support and understanding offered by several members of the house to the position taken by the commission in the statement that we made yesterday .
we made explicit reference yesterday morning in our statement , as did the president this afternoon , to the fact that we share the concern demonstrated by fourteen member states in their statement on monday .
secondly , we said , in very specific terms , that we will work closely with all member states in examining the situation as it develops in austria .
and , when i say that the commission took that view , i include my dear colleague franz fischler , who is from austria ; and who , once again , demonstrated his integrity and his independence as a member of the european commission , under oath , in being part of that statement that we made yesterday morning .
i say that in friendship and honour to my friend and colleague , franz fischler .
in order to ensure that the treaty is upheld and that we sustain what was described as the community machine , we are following the course of action which was set down in our statement yesterday .
that is our duty .
and , when we recall that , like many others on all sides of this house , my and my colleagues ' instincts are naturally aroused .
however , the commission has to act on the basis of values and law and not only on the basis of instinct .
thank you , commissioner kinnock .
the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed .
the precautionary principle is not a new concept .
it involves taking action in a given policy area when the science is not clear , but where there are reasonable grounds for concern that the potential risks are big enough to require action .
we also hope that the communication will help to build a better common understanding of how to manage risks and to dispel fears that the precautionary principle might be used in an arbitrary way or as a disguised form of trade protectionism .
the commission ' s starting point in applying the precautionary principle is the need to ensure a high level of protection in the fields of environmental , human , animal and plant health .
as such , while the precautionary principle does not involve the politicisation of science , as some have alleged , it does take us to the crossroads between science and politics .
the initial decision to apply the precautionary principle depends largely on the level of protection sought and the level of risk that decision-makers are prepared to accept for society .
this communication does not pretend to be the final word on this issue ; however , it is the first time that the commission has presented a structured presentation of the principle and its operational use .
mr president , commissioner , thank you very much for your statement .
yes , i would say we already use this way of working with different , difficult issues like a new chemical strategy for example .
mr president , commissioner , regarding the relationship between science , on the one hand , and applying the precautionary principle on the other , the communication states that invoking that precautionary principle always requires a political decision if there is a lack of scientific evidence .
they have to look at , for example , the concerns of people in relation to a special issue , and they have to judge from what is known about the scientific evidence in a certain case .
however , it is true that it does not need a big majority of the scientific community to be able to use the precautionary principle .
it can be used on evidence from a minority or where science is incomplete .
you have to decide whether you want to put people in danger , for example , or if you want to protect the environment ; and you have to look at the science that is available .
mr president , i have a question concerning an actual , concrete case in which it should be possible to apply the precautionary principle .
the first question concerns the implementation of the precautionary principle .
my second question concerns the burden of proof .
the second question concerns the reversed burden of proof .
consideration should be given to what science is offering in the way of knowledge , and this should be used as an important political tool for protecting the environment and people ' s health .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
intergovernmental conference the next item is the report ( a5-0018 / 2000 ) by mr dimitrakopoulos and mr leinen , on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs , on the convening of the intergovernmental conference [ 14094 / 1999 - c5-0341 / 1999 - 1999 / 0825 ( cns ) ] .
the intergovernmental conference that is about to begin is important , both in a general sense and more particularly in view of the imminent enlargement .
this is because the helsinki agenda is limited to consideration only of the three issues that relate in a fragmentary way to the structure and operation of just two of the european union ' s institutional bodies .
granted this , the new intergovernmental conference must not fail to include in its agenda issues which , properly addressed , would ensure the correct operation of all and not just some of the european union ' s institutions .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , in common with my co-rapporteur , mr dimitrakopoulos , i take the view that the agenda agreed on in helsinki is not up to meeting the challenges that enlargement of the eu by 13 new states will bring .
on 18 november 1999 , we named the key points on our agenda for the intergovernmental conference 2000 .
i would just like to reiterate a few points : provisions for reinforced cooperation with these 20 and 25 member states , integrating security and defence policy into the community framework , incorporating the charter of citizens ' rights into the new treaty , constitutionalising the union by dividing it into a main part and a subsidiary part , reforming article 48 so that when it comes to future treaty amendments , parliament will play a real part in the negotiations on an equal footing , and - another thing worthy of mention - a statute for european parties so that the next european elections are actually fought on the basis of european issues rather than taking the form of national debates on domestic policy .
in addition to a wider agenda we also want an improved method for the elaboration of this new european treaty .
in the interests of the citizens , we must provide for greater transparency in the political process during the intergovernmental conference .
all the more reason for the representatives of the european parliament to participate fully in the preparation group , at ministerial level as well as at the meetings of the european council , insofar as this council concerns itself with matters pertaining to the intergovernmental conference .
the national governments decided to open this intergovernmental conference on 14 february .
the opinion we are placing before you is a clear signal to the governments not to miss the last opportunity we will have before enlargement to implement ambitious reforms within the eu and to raise the level of acceptance of this next european treaty , which is more transparent and provides for the full participation of parliament .
i too would like to thank the portuguese presidency and commissioner barnier for their cooperation .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all , i would like to express my gratitude for the confidence the previous two speakers have expressed in the work the portuguese presidency has done on this subject .
i believe that the mechanism we have proposed for this conference has been very well received by the various governments .
i would like to add that our understanding is that they will be able to participate fully , just like any other group member appointed by a member state or representing the commission .
i also consider that in choosing its foreign minister to chair the ministerial group , the portuguese presidency is also trying to give a signal that it wishes to ensure that the president of the european parliament has a sufficiently high-level representative and not one at a level which could conceivably be interpreted as being less worthy of the role of the president of an institution such as this parliament .
we have taken note of the proposals put forward by the commission .
we also hope to be able to hand over to the french presidency something tangible and as representative as possible of the links that may be established between the member states in the course of our work .
mr president , the group of the european people ' s party was not satisfied with the conclusions of the european council in helsinki .
the european council in helsinki itself approved enlargement involving 13 new member states .
we are therefore thinking in terms of the treaty and we want the agenda of the next intergovernmental conference to allow for a deeper reform of the union .
having said this , mr president , this parliament is holding this debate today because we did not want to delay the start of the conference .
however , we did not want to do this because we wish to send a clear political signal to the governments and the candidate countries that we want this reform to take place , precisely in order to facilitate enlargement .
the portuguese presidency shares many of this parliament ' s aspirations and has committed itself to doing everything it can to ensure that the agenda of the intergovernmental conference is widened to include other essential issues .
therefore , the number of issues decided by a qualified majority will increase .
it is already established within the community acquis that those legislative issues which are decided by a qualified majority are also subject to codecision with parliament .
however , this parliament would not be fulfilling its role as a supranational european institution if it did not consider the political design of the union .
mr president , for the socialist group i can say we will be supporting the draft opinion put forward by the rapporteurs on behalf of the constitutional affairs committee .
the amsterdam leftovers is not a very good term , because they are very important subjects in themselves .
these first three subjects are very important but they are subjects which were explored in detail by our member states during the last igc .
there are other issues that should fruitfully be looked at , especially before such a large widening of the union to so many new countries .
they have laid out for the public to see some of the crucial issues that we are going to have to address in this igc .
that is one of the political conclusions that we must draw from the grave decision of 14 member states yesterday virtually to freeze relations with a partner .
another is clearly for national parliaments and national political parties to find a reinforced role that they can play inside european union affairs and to share the shouldering of responsibility to build european parliamentary democracy .
mr president , the group of the greens / european free alliance believes that the european parliament ' s decision to rush headlong into giving its opinion on the intergovernmental conference undermines the political significance of the request for talks with the council , and in the end , makes it rather irrelevant .
we would have preferred to have had greater clarification of the agenda and more guarantees on the method before giving our opinion , and frankly , we did not appreciate the discourtesy the portuguese presidency showed towards the european parliament by scheduling the start of the intergovernmental conference for saint valentine ' s day , the first day of the strasbourg part-session .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , to my mind , it cannot be said often or loud enough that what the council has adopted in the way of an agenda for the intergovernmental conference is completely unacceptable politically and i would add that i consider it to be nothing short of disgraceful .
that is why we as a group are in favour of the intergovernmental conference .
what we are talking about is nothing more and nothing less than the future of europe , and , in particular , a europe that the citizens truly regard as being theirs , because they are instrumental in shaping it and because the cares and concerns , the problems and issues they face on a daily basis are also taken seriously by politicians .
we also take the view that the political decision-makers must at long last change the habit of a life-time and ask the citizens in referenda , once the intergovernmental conference is over , whether or not they go along with the way in which europe is to continue to develop in the future .
of course , we are also talking about effectiveness of decisions and functioning institutions in a union of 27 plus member states .
i would like to thank the commission for the proposals they have put forward and i am certain that comprehensive discussions with the citizens will ensue here in the european parliament , on all the issues you have raised .
it must be adhered to in the interests of the fast , effective work of the conference , prior to enlargement .
we deplore the fact that the commission , in its opinion of 26 january , limits itself to following the routine path of a standardised europe enlarging towards the east , a centralised superstate operating on the basis of majority decisions .
furthermore , the centralised european system , as we can see it developing today and as we can foresee it by extrapolation , erodes nations and , in eroding nations , erodes the national patriotism which forms the basis of our will to defend ourselves .
the europe which results from this is not stronger but weaker , as it no longer knows what it is or what it is defending .
a flexible europe , is a europe which respects its national democracies , which relies on the support of its nations , its national patriotisms , instead of continually persecuting them .
mr president , i am speaking on behalf of the italian radicals and i would like to say to the president of the council that he has seen what parliament ' s opinion is .
we shall give an opinion - which is technically and legally necessary - on convening the igc on 14 february , but we shall give an unfavourable opinion of its content .
we radicals have tabled amendments which we are submitting to the house in order to consolidate this text , and for example , to request - just for the sake of mentioning articles 6 and 7 - that the very minimum be done , i.e. , that the european parliament should also be involved in drawing up the european constitution and that a proposal be made for the european parliament to adopt the amendments to the treaty .
the finance ministers behave as if they were in an intergovernmental meeting , when in the ecofin council and in the euro 11 council , which is an unacceptable way to go on .
the debates we are having these days , on a certain european country ' s government , for example , show , do they not , that we must place the spiritual , moral , constitutional , community and common welfare-orientated leanings of the european union on a firm footing , and that legally binding fundamental rights must also be incorporated into the treaty for the same reason , as this will be a crucial stabilising factor .
if we succeed in making progress here , then we will also be ready for the historic task of enlarging the european union .
you spoke to us about the start of your tour around the various capital cities and told us about the difficulties that some governments have in reaching a consensus in their own countries , and therefore in their parliaments .
i would like you to bear in mind that yesterday we had a very worthwhile day of discussions and dialogue with the representatives of the 15 national parliaments , which were represented by competent and exacting delegations .
however , we shall intensify our collaboration and our dialogue with the national parliaments for the entire duration of the intergovernmental conference .
the finnish presidency only listened to minimalist governments and , unfortunately , turned a deaf ear to this parliament .
it is of the utmost importance that the european parliament and the commission join forces for this igc .
it also means that our parliament president and the two representatives should be able to take part on an equal political footing and , therefore , not only within the working party , but also at the same political level as the commission .
if we allow europe to be watered down as a result of enlargement , we will drown in our own political quagmire .
after having restricted , on its own initiative , its participation in the igc to two minor seats , parliament is now giving up the right to add to the agenda for this igc .
hypocrisy to be regretted bitterly , in our resolution , that the agenda for the igc is not equal to the issues , since in our haste , with blameworthy naivety , we are stopping ourselves forcing through this more ambitious agenda .
whether we want it or not , since parliament itself is going to extinguish the only spotlight capable of shedding a little light on the debates , the venue for decisions is now going to move to the 15 member states of the union .
in order to assert our fundamental values , they need to be laid down in writing , as a matter of urgency , and , beyond this igc , i believe we owe europe a constitution .
the forthcoming enlargement of the union is used as an argument for this .
article 56 of the treaty , prohibiting currency speculation or any interference in the free movement of capital , must be removed so that damaging currency speculation may be checked by means of political control .
it is , however , important to emphasise that the intergovernmental conference is and will remain a conference of the member states .
the union cannot be enlarged to 28 without addressing the matter of whether europe has certain joint principles and values , whether it comes down to an economic free trade area , or whether , on the other hand , it has a greater ambition : the desire to be a supranational union , in ways that have yet to be defined , that wants to blaze a trail for civilisation and democracy in the world .
the amendment of the treaties was , however , limited to a review of some internal rules , which was necessary and important , but did not answer the fundamental question : what is europe , what are its common principles and therefore , its objectives and limitations ?
the council has done well to lay open this subject to europe and to the world and if we do not set down these values in a charter of fundamental rights , in a european constitution , then we shall construct a europe without a solid , lasting base .
commissioner barnier , i know - at least i think i know - that you and the representatives of the portuguese presidency share these values : make the most of the chances you were given by the december conference to include these subjects and principles , because this is the only way we will build a lasting europe .
mr president , i am in the happy position of being able to refer to a couple of striking contributions from a small group of nordic sceptics and opponents of the drastic and growing integration process which , looked long and hard at , threatens the whole of democratic europe .
you can think what you like about mr haider , and i personally consider him to be a very dangerous politician , but you cannot just intervene in an independent and friendly country ' s democratic process .
on 14 february , we will see the launch of the igc which is to be completed by the end of 2000 .
i think it is generally agreed here this afternoon across all groups that the helsinki agenda will not be sufficient to cover the necessary reform to prepare europe for enlargement .
these include the extension of qualified voting - in my country we accept that but not to areas of taxation - the re-weighting of voting in council to favour larger states and the number of commissioners in an enlarged europe .
we are prepared to consider re-weighting the votes in the council of ministers , provided that the larger member states are willing to agree to every member state having a full and equal member of the commission .
at the igc , we would also need a debate on the possible divisions of the treaties into two - into a policy area and an area on the constitution .
the treaty of amsterdam , mr president , has set the number of european parliament members at 700 and a debate is needed in this parliament on how that number will be distributed among the enlarged europe .
the issues to be dealt with at this intergovernmental conference are exceptionally sensitive .
the most important issue with regard to this is internal differentiation within the union .
may i particularly draw attention to one of the implications of enlargement in respect of this parliament .
a ceiling of 700 has been prescribed as the maximum that parliament can safely become and remain a deliberative assembly .
there is nothing new here , apart from one aspect : the fact that with this opinion - assuming it is approved tomorrow - the european parliament is adopting a positive strategy to assist in widening the igc agenda .
this also demonstrates its willingness to contribute , by means of its two representatives and its president , to reaching a more satisfactory final solution to this revision of the treaty .
i also feel , however , that the commission did an excellent job , whether or not you agree with the solutions put forward in the document adopted on 26 january .
that is the debate , and this question must be addressed in any discussion of the intergovernmental conference , its agenda or its method .
the council must realise that , if we want the future of the european union to involve a form of enlargement built on firm foundations , the next intergovernmental conference must go much further .
the council is consulting us and parliament is giving its opinion .
we want an intergovernmental conference , but not this one .
being much more democratic means greater participation by the european parliament and allowing the commission to exercise even more - yes , more - its ability to take the initiative .
i would just like to make a few comments , after reading the draft opinion and after listening to the speakers on behalf of the various groups .
indeed , it is in this spirit and in the framework of this mandate , which the commission framed for its own opinion , but using all the terms thereof , plus everything between the lines .
i think that all of us , the personal representatives of the ministers of foreign affairs , your two representatives , and myself , as a representative of the commission , will be going into matters in detail , but it will be afterwards , at a different level , one in which we will also be participating , that the last trade-offs must be made .
in the coming months , ladies and gentlemen of the house , the commission will therefore be working in close cooperation , on good terms , with your two representatives , professor tsatsos and mr elmar brok , in order to reconcile our points of view , if need be .
finally , i should like to make three additional comments , quite briefly , mr president .
firstly , to congratulate and thank mr napolitano , the chairman , and the committee on constitutional affairs for the extremely original major initiative which it took yesterday in bringing together the competent representatives of national parliaments , the committee on constitutional affairs and the commission for an initial joint debate .
such dialogue between the national parliaments , the european parliament and ourselves is extremely important .
tomorrow , i shall be in london .
we are well aware that they cannot be completed within these six months and that it will have to hand over to the french presidency , in the hope that a conclusion can be reached before the end of the year 2000 .
the handover will have been made , but the conditions in which the handover is going to be made , by yourself , mr president , and by the portuguese presidency , are going to be extremely important , as is the nature of this handover .
it is all the work which is going to be carried out together , under your guidance particularly , in the course of these few months , which is extremely important .
finally , let me repeat , we shall have a very great effort to make in order to popularise the topics of these negotiations .
it has thereby succeeded in closing two serious loopholes in the internal market which are of great significance to the european economy and to 5 million third-country nationals in the european union who are here as workers or on a self-employed basis .
however , the european court of justice did not make specific reference to the issue of visa requirements and conditions of residence and consequently the member states were unable to clarify this issue .
the situation as far as self-employed people are concerned is that current community invested legal rights do not afford third-country nationals the right to provide cross-border services .
i , together with the european parliament ' s committee on legal affairs and the internal market , are therefore of the opinion that the commission has chosen the right legal bases and that the opposite view , as expressed in the report produced by the council ' s legal service , is inappropriate .
i am absolutely convinced that it will be easier for us to achieve consensus in the council on this basis .
however , in order to compensate for this , all possible obstacles must be removed before the service provision card is issued , and as the commission ' s proposal would have it , more stringent conditions must be satisfied before a service provision card is issued .
i would hope that the same holds true for the proposal to reduce the minimum period of duration for a first posting to three months , and to be flexible in adapting the period of validity of the service provision card to the duration of the first posting .
unfortunately i have to say that i am unable to support this proposed amendment because it in fact changes the substance of the outcome that we in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market resolved on unanimously , and i would like to stand by this outcome , which we arrived at together after lengthy discussions .
neither does the commission accept the proposal that legal status in a member state should be valid three months after the card has expired .
that is why the commission supports mrs palacio ' s amendment no 22 in both respects .
i hope that , at the end of the debate , when all the speakers have contributed , i will once again be given the opportunity to elaborate upon the different amendments .
mr president , tomorrow will see a large majority within the ppe group vote in favour of the amendments put forward by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , as well as the amended version .
if we are going to abide by the one extreme , that is the interests of the member states , then we certainly have every reason to make the hurdles that have to be cleared in applying for this card relatively high .
therefore we want applications for the service provision card to be for one or more member states .
consequently , i too have to say that i am in favour of the amendments put forward by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
if a particular member state was to declare that it had suddenly run into problems because the individual concerned had committed a theft and the card was for their country , then this particular member state would be able to revoke this card , as it were , for the reasons cited in this directive , which is altogether a flexible and intelligent solution .
i would urge the council and the commission to move in this direction .
one of the reasons why we are late is because we spent time earlier today rightly stating the rooted opposition of this parliament to any form of xenophobia or racism .
mrs berger , in your amendment no 2 to recital 6 , you mention legal security .
the first point on which we disagree is the duration of three months for the residency permit , since all that does is create legal insecurity .
legal security requires this .
on the other hand , with regard to point d of amendment no 10 , which refers to the first directive , you suggest that , for reasons of public security or public order regulations , a member state may reject the validity of the card .
there are already some ex ante controls laid down in article 4 of the directive .
it makes no sense for any worker within the schengen area , since he or she will already have undergone a screening process in order to enter the first member state , and the second member state would be justified in rejecting ex ante the entry of that worker into its territory .
however , in the case of the united kingdom , we believe they go further than that in a manner which is unacceptable .
if there is to be a change to the present united kingdom border arrangements , that change should be made by the united kingdom government and the united kingdom parliament and not en passant by the european legislative process .
having also studied the amendments submitted , i concluded that we can go along with these concerns to a large extent and that this will be reflected in our voting behaviour tomorrow .
amendments nos 7 and 8 are acceptable too , provided the situation of posting is established in the member state in which the service provider is established .
we also welcome amendment no 13 insofar as , as a result of this , the card ' s area of applicability is extended from one member state to all member states .
in terms of comitology , amendments nos 14 and 21 also apply in part , insofar as the rights of parliament are concerned .
the other amendments are unacceptable .
as amendment no 18 refers to directive 96 / 71 concerning the minimum wage which is already in force , no change is necessary .
as far as amendment no 15 on the definition of the term " self-employed " is concerned , the commission will , as i have already remarked , provide an adequate solution to accommodate the objections lodged .
the commission would like to propose finding a solution to this problem which would then apply to all companies based in the european union which employ staff from non-eu countries .
the question is , furthermore , one of whether the two cases should be treated in the same way .
in my opinion , this is an issue which belongs to the debate on the enlargement of the european union and perhaps not to the present debate .
thank you very much , commissioner bolkestein .
the debate is closed .
proposal for a council decision amending decision 88 / 591 / ecsc , eec , euratom , establishing a court of first instance of the european communities ( 5713 / 1999 - c5-0020 / 1999 - 1999 / 0803 ( cns ) ) , and ii .
proposal for a council decision amending decision 88 / 591 / ecsc , eec , euratom , establishing a court of first instance of the european communities ( 9614 / 1999 - c5-0167 / 1999 - 1999 / 0805 ( cns ) ) .
mr president , there is no guarantee that the forthcoming revision of the treaties at the igc will clear the way for a revision of the community ' s judicial systems .
therefore , the proposed increase to 21 judges is fully justified because , ultimately , it is a matter of increasing the court ' s efficiency and it will enable two additional chambers to be established , in each of which three judges will sit .
the second reform proposed concerns an increase in the jurisdiction of the court of first instance , which , at present , only covers actions for annulment by private individuals but which will then also cover actions brought by member states .
however , this report is based on long and effective work which has already produced certain results , such as the incorporation into the finnish presidency ' s document of 7 december 1999 of the commitment to widen the agenda of the intergovernmental conference to include a study of the future modification of the organisation , composition and competences of the community courts .
mr president , the reform of the community judicial system has become an essential requirement if , in the future , we intend justice to be done within reasonable time scales , and if , in the future , the european union wishes to have a judicial system which is equal to the political project which we have embarked upon .
today - and i must say this with pride and satisfaction - this parliament has had a good opportunity to demonstrate the extent to which we europeans believe that the european political project is much more than just an internal market , and that it is based much more on principles than on economic interests .
i would like to make two observations during this intervention , which stem from the report itself , given this parliament ' s obligation , in accordance with the treaty , to produce a very succinct report , which does not go into depth .
the second is that the translation services of the court of first instance and the court of justice should be separated .
the first concerns this parliament .
above all , we wish to see an extension of the competences of the court of justice , hand in hand with its capacity to fulfil its obligations , in other words , its resources .
mr president , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and welcome the contents of this report .
the first relates to a large suspension bridge and whether or not tolls on it should be subject to vat .
the decision could have huge implications for our local economy .
these are just two examples of real life problems behind delays in europe ' s system of justice .
the proposals in this report are very welcome as an interim palliative , but europe is a legal construction , its courts are central to its proper functioning .
mr president , i too would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report .
mr president , i would like to begin by joining those who congratulated the rapporteur on this work .
it has been said more than once : justice delayed is justice denied .
as your parliament is aware , the commission is convinced that , without fundamental reform , the community judicial bodies run the risk - in the short term - of no longer being able to carry out their task within reasonable deadlines .
the commission is aware of the request made by the court of first instance to increase its number of judges , but at the moment , the former is of the opinion that the proposed transfer of competence should be seen in the light of the study which i have just mentioned .
the debate is closed .
exceptional financial aid to kosovo the next item is the report ( a5-0022 / 2000 ) by mr brok , on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , on the proposal for a council decision providing exceptional community financial assistance to kosovo ( com ( 99 ) 0598 - c5-0045 / 00 - 1999 / 0240 ( cns ) ) .
we have been asked for eur 35 million .
we would like the commission to make commitments on the amendments we are proposing in regard to this .
this is not in order to limit or be stingy with our financial contribution to kosovo but , quite the contrary , to ensure that our contribution is being matched by the contributions of other donors .
from that point of view , the proposed facility is a two-phase aid facility and the second tranche must be released as soon as the donors have made clear their interest .
this is serious , since it holds up the whole process of reconstruction in kosovo .
kosovo has suffered far too much from delays in payment .
administration-wise there are now 34 tax inspectors .
it should also be noted that of the 19 departments , 4 already have administrative leadership , which represents an improvement on the situation there hitherto .
the eu commission cannot pay for everything .
mr president , i would like to offer a few explanations .
the union has decided to assist with a further eur 35 million in additional macrofinancial aid for the reconstruction of kosovo , on the basis of an imf report which estimates that a further eur 115 million is needed for that reconstruction .
this calls into question the agreement which parliament reached , with great difficulty , with the council in december , according to which , when the commission presents a multiannual programme for reconstruction , the financial perspectives would be reviewed where necessary .
i would like to ask the commission - and i am glad that commissioner solbes is here with us this evening - to present us in time with this multiannual finance programme , with the corresponding report , requested by parliament , so that it may be taken into account when the preliminary draft of the next budget is drawn up , as we have been promised .
lastly , i would like to insist that , although we have agreed to eur 35 million now , we know that this is a stopgap solution and that it is not enough , and we should therefore reach an agreement as soon as possible on the multiannual reconstruction programme for kosovo , which is so badly needed .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , please excuse my late arrival , but this other political issue is still on the agenda today , more is the pity .
mr president , when the alliance intervened in kosovo its objective was to re-establish conditions in this province which would enable those who wished to do so to stay there or return , with respect for their own heritage and their own culture .
it is true that economic aid is , in this respect , certainly an essential element to the scope of action afforded those people active at the grass roots level .
in short , we should put our faith in those parties who , in these areas , are better equipped than us to make certain decisions .
some of the amendments in your report pose this question .
for example , amendments nos 1 , 2 and 4 .
the fundamental problem is that , at the moment , the distribution of the burden amongst the different donors has been established in the statements of the high level steering group , but it is also true that they have no legal status .
amendment no 4 is of a similar nature .
on the one hand , we have been asked to provide parliament with information regarding the progress of invitations to tender and , in this respect , i can tell you that the commission was last week able to provide parliament ' s committee on budgets with the latest statement of contracts and payments carried out since the task force was sent into action in kosovo .
thank you very much , ladies and gentlemen , and i hope that , with the final decision of the council , we can release these funds and make a positive contribution to maintaining the considerable effort being made in kosovo by different parties , so that we might achieve that situation of greater coexistence and peace which we all wish to see .
mr president , i am pleased to see the convergence of viewpoints there is between parliament , particularly the committee on budgets , and the commission , and we can assure you that , for our part , we shall always be there to assist the commission in the performance of its duties .
the problem is how in practical terms to implement the compromise which we accepted .
the debate is closed .
the share that renewable energy sources have in total energy production must be increased , but it has to be done in a rational manner .
it is quite amazing as to how doggedly the member states in the council tried to fight this programme for alternative energies and an appropriate level of funding .
the original financial package of eur 81.1 million , as proposed by the commission , was reduced by the council to eur 74 million , unilaterally and without explanation .
it was possible , in the course of the conciliation procedure , to reach agreement with the council on those of our essential demands , one being to examine the possibility of opening the altener programme to the associated mediterranean countries when this programme next undergoes revision .
we were assured that the council will publish a statement on this in the official journal .
we accepted that the funding should be raised to eur 77 million .
on 9 december last year , the conciliation committee adopted the definitive text for the programme , thereby paving the way for the future promotion of studies and projects within the alternative energies sector aimed at tapping into the potential of renewable energies .
in the first place , this new five-year programme will entail extending the actions in the altener i programme .
to my mind though , what is particularly important about the altener ii programme are the new actions for relieving market saturation by renewable energies and those for implementing , supporting and monitoring the community strategy and the community action plan .
the conclusion reached regarding conciliation with regard to the altener programme as put forward by the conciliation committee is , after all the difficult phases it has been through , at least satisfactory .
most of parliament ' s amendments have been taken into account and the fact that the programme has seen its total funding rise to eur 77 million must be seen as positive .
however , in the future , the union will also have to increase its own input in promoting the use of renewable energy and ensuring that renewable energy is launched without obstacles on the market .
in contrast with that , i see the amounts allocated for renewable energies , which are not only an ecological element but which look set to undergo considerable economic expansion .
in order to ensure that at least 50 % of the energy mix comes from renewable energy sources , it is not enough to deal with a few hot spots that will be more profitable in the short term .
the activities of the altener programme will promote renewable energy sources and i believe that such programmes merit financial support at the developmental stage as they offer enormous commercial potential in the future .
as the final text rightly states , actions such as these can play a role in reducing regional disparities .
i can vouch that i have already received significant interest in the altener programme from my own constituency of leinster , a significant portion of which falls within ireland ' s only objective i region .
i support all efforts to close the gap in economic development in infrastructural provisions , including the energy sector .
in short , we face a major challenge in meeting our commitments on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector under the kyoto protocol , while at the same time promoting growth in our economies .
altener will make a valuable contribution to the combined efforts of the member states .
mr president , mr langen , ladies and gentlemen , as our rapporteur mentioned , we are coming to the end of a long and difficult process of conciliation with the council on the altener programme .
mr langen mentioned that the implementation budget proposed by the council was initially ff 74 million , whereas the commission proposed 81.1 million , a figure which the european parliament supported .
an initial conciliation meeting was not successful , because the council would not at that time accept an increase of eur 1.9 million .
a second round of conciliation achieved an increase of eur 1.1 million in order to reach this compromise figure of 77 million .
in spite of an increase of 3 million in relation to the initial proposal , personally , once again i deplore the fact that the funds allocated do not match up to the ambitions expressed and that the concern to save money displayed by the council in this situation is in rude contrast to its declarations in favour of the safety of the energy supply , job creation and environmental protection , challenges that are just as significant which we must face up to .
all of this will provide greater coordination , transparency and efficiency in our energy programmes , into which we will also have to incorporate the save programme , which we will be discussing soon .
the financial amount finally allocated to the programme is also a considerable improvement on the council ' s proposal at second reading which we found completely unacceptable and we have made quite a lot of progress there .
i therefore propose that this house agree to adopt the proposals on save and the conclusion at the conciliation at third reading .
i would like to remind the house that at second reading parliament adopted this report containing eight amendments , including a re-instatement of the commission ' s original budget .
the commission accepted five of the proposed amendments including the budgetary allocation and i thank the commission for their continued support on the budget during the conciliation procedure as what the council had proposed was unacceptable .
the issue of the financial envelope was staunchly defended by parliament in the face of the council ' s very meagre opening offer .
i would like to say however that it is , and has always been , a very modest budget and therefore the funding for this programme is more symbolic than real .
where the community can step in is to put the local activators in touch with each other so that they can actually not re-invent the wheel in every region .
we have an important part to play in the community in the european union in this regard .
save is the only community-wide programme dedicated to promoting the rational use of energy .
it is something that we can all support .
furthermore , behind these programmes , that is to say , the save programme , which concerns greater efficiency and energy savings , and the altener programme , which concerns renewable energy , there lies an extremely important technological challenge , which , from an economic point of view , may offer significant opportunities to industry and also for the creation of jobs in our countries and therefore in the union as a whole .
from the point of view of the commission , in this interinstitutional game , i believe that this is important and i am very happy to highlight it .
the debate is closed .
however , in the spirit of europe ' s founding fathers , we must inevitably bear in mind the model for civilisation which led them to seek to establish lasting conditions for peace .
a europe of national identities can live for a long time in peace and prosperity if this cultural diversity maintains its vitality and eliminates the small-mindedness and aggressiveness caused by resentments which , as a rule , give rise to excessively nationalistic feelings .
if , however , cultural policies cannot give a superior and clearly distinctive meaning to all of this , neither europe nor european democracy will be able to make much progress .
the people of europe whom we represent here have the right to demand a more consistent , effective and above all a more european attitude from the union ' s institutions .
these thoughts are by way of an introduction to this house ' s consideration of the joint text of the culture 2000 programme , which was approved by the conciliation committee on 9 december last year .
let us remember that culture 2000 establishes a unique financing and programming instrument for cultural cooperation .
with regard to the budgetary aspects of this , parliament ' s delegation came up against the council ' s intransigence on the issue of increasing the appropriations from the eur 167 million that were originally earmarked .
i believe that the fact that culture and , fittingly , education and youth now fall within the same commissioner ' s remit , will also serve to guarantee more synergy between these three programmes , which are certainly worthwhile programmes for the citizens of the european union .
if one puts all the money together and creates synergy then one can be a tiny bit satisfied , but then only a tiny bit .
madam president , i agree with the fine words with which the rapporteur began his intervention and i must add that , during the conciliation procedure , i was personally a little disappointed with the council .
it has once again been demonstrated that conciliation is incompatible with the demand for unanimity in the council .
this demand makes conciliation almost impossible and even affects the dignity of the parliamentary institution .
however , madam president , these considerations must not hide the fact that the joint text which we will vote on tomorrow , and which the socialists will vote in favour of , will put in place one of the european union ' s most important programmes .
the impetus given to the european idea by this programme is having an enormous impact , especially on small linguistic areas such as the netherlands which not only has national potential , but is also relying on support from the programme , mainly from a language point of view .
codecision and unanimity do not go hand in hand .
i have always given the rapporteur my backing in this respect .
i too must say that i will be voting for this joint text for a council and european parliament decision with a very heavy heart .
the overall growth of the european union and the awareness of being european citizens : this is why we believe that the culture 2000 programme , albeit with a scarcity of funds , can make a considerable contribution to this great common goal .
the culture 2000 programme was finalised at the end of last year as a result of conciliation between parliament and the council .
the outcome can be considered reasonable , when we take into account the fact that the adoption of the programme called for a unanimous decision to be made in the council .
in this connection , i am very glad to say that soon after the socrates and culture 2000 programmes get under way officially at the meeting of the council of ministers in march in lisbon , the country holding the presidency of the eu is to organise a conference to discuss the situation of public libraries .
i hope that this conference will also encourage the commission to take the issue of libraries into active consideration in the fifth framework programme in respect of the information society .
we have had a great deal to say today about europe as a community of values , about tolerance , human dignity , human rights , a positive approach to the enlargement process , transparency and respect for each other .
youth , education and cultural policies are important tools for creating these values , for giving the citizens confidence in the european union and making it credible in their eyes .
the funding approved by the council for the cultural programme does not do justice to the importance of cultural and educational policy and of this programme to the european union ' s goals .
we want a colourful europe .
we want a europe based on the principle of diversity within unity .
madam president , as we have heard , all the groups have a common political enemy in the council .
the battle for a workable compromise lasted almost two years , and now , at long last , the european parliament can give the go-ahead .
this showed up the weaknesses of the european union ' s cultural policy activities once again .
out of 410 applications in 1999 only 55 projects with a low overall volume of eur 6.07 million could be considered .
the cultural programmes launched in years past - kaleidoscope , ariane and raphael - are being replaced by a single programme , culture 2000 , where - and i must stress this here very forcefully - the rapporteur censures a position which should give the european parliament cause for reflection - as someone said this afternoon - but which still underlines the huge importance of being part of a vast community where cultural interpretation is a democratic factor .
we agree with this approach and despite the lack of funds , this evening ' s result will serve to greatly boost this strategy and this opportunity for europe , which will then give rise to an economic factor and a growth factor ; culture then , and an institutional aspect , the basis for structuring a vast community , a prerequisite for economic growth , and not the complete opposite , as europe , in its cultural habits , has perhaps been used to viewing things in the past .
europe is its people , its history and now its collectivity ; but the reason why culture 2000 is so important to us is for this : i will wager that when we ask the question - ' what is europe ? ' - we answer it by saying , ' it is our art , it is our literature and it is our heritage . ' that is what culture 2000 represents .
following the conciliation stage , our institutions can now formally adopt the new ' culture 2000 ' framework programme .
we shall thus , in the course of the next five years , have a tool perfectly suited to developing clear , well-structured and , i am sure , successful measures in order to promote the cultural sector .
it is with great satisfaction that i today welcome this ' happy ending ' in this house , and i thank you for it .
we now have a framework programme , the first of its type for the cultural sector , and this programme makes it possible for us to plan our action from a new perspective and to work to promote culture in a more comprehensive , but also more thorough and detailed manner .
it stated that on the occasion of the report it must draw up in accordance with article 7 of the european parliament and council decision , it would carry out an assessment of the results of the programme , and this assessment will also cover the financial resources in the context of the community financial perspectives .
if need be , the report shall contain a proposal to amend the decision , and this should be achieved by 30 june 2002 .
all this must lead us to intensify our action in favour of developing a common cultural area , within which our cultures can flourish further in all their unique features , in all their diversity , but may also be mutually enriched and the other citizens of europe may participate fully in them .
i should like this programme to become a practical reality and for culture to be not only a factor of enrichment for our citizens , both in personal as well as in social and economic terms , but a right which it is our job to assert , and also the hallmark of rediscovered interaction within the union .
this is what our european ' culture 2000 ' programme offers .
secondly , encouraging exchanges , mobility and training in the cultural sector .
the new programme will , i am sure , in terms of its structure and organisation based on transparency , efficiency and balance , prove to be an instrument as successful as it is essential to our measures .
madam president , i reiterate my thanks to parliament for its support and for , once again , having shown the importance it attaches to culture in the context of the union .
i am certain that it will not be disappointed , having given us its support , and i personally undertake to keep parliament informed , as things progress , of the various phases of the implementation of our measures and the measures of our citizens , which i hope will be great measures for the future of the union .
the debate is closed .
this will involve , for example , disposing of more than 32 million lots of used oil , removing break fluid , etc .
vehicles already abandoned have also been abandoned by community legislation , in that they are not taken into consideration either in the texts on emissions or in this text on end-of-life vehicles .
the only merit of this directive is that it looks to the future .
such distortions in competition are not about environmental protection ; they simply affect investment potential and the jobs of those building cars in europe .
however , i would ask these colleagues to show solidarity with the more than 2 million people who make a living from building cars in europe , so that these jobs can be secured in the future .
firstly , because it clearly stipulates the environmental objectives .
thirdly , because it sets out a clear procedure to combat pollution caused by heavy metals .
secondly , we need to retain the details as they are included in the common position .
in my opinion , we should not jeopardise that common position , because it is a directive which we desperately need for environmental reasons .
our group will , at any rate , do this as far as possible - for environmental reasons and because we have this directive which is well-balanced and encompasses a whole range of issues and difficulties including , for example , the way in which the costs are to be distributed .
some of the socialists under the direction of mr bernd lange say : yes , we approve of this principle but we need not implement it until 2010 or 2012 according to amendment no 45 .
the common position stipulates 2006 .
i would therefore urge my colleagues not to support amendment no 38 of the christian democrats and amendment no 45 of some of the socialists .
mr president , the waste from end-of-life vehicles is one of our really major environmental problems in terms both of the quantity of waste and of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances .
it is easy to see that the car industry in certain countries , for example in germany , went in for some pretty tough lobbying before the present directive was adopted .
reference was made earlier on in the debate to the fact that some thought should be given to the millions of people who work in the car industry in various countries and to those countries which have large car industries , for example my own country , sweden .
mr president , i am very pleased that environmental protection is now a priority for this parliament , as indeed it is for the citizens of europe .
there is no doubt that abandoned cars represent a serious threat to the visual and physical environment .
car manufacturers , the suppliers of materials and equipment manufacturers must make an effort to limit the use of hazardous substances and therefore must ensure at the design stage that recycled materials can be used in the manufacture of cars .
we know that in the netherlands there are authorised treatment centres in place to collect end-of-life vehicles and this process should be extended across the length and breadth of the european union .
in accordance with new provisions included in the amsterdam treaty all the 370 million consumers within the european union have a right to consumer-related information .
in this regard , we are certainly on the right track , but as some members have already stressed , the real issue here is the possibility that manufacturers ' responsibility will become a shared responsibility .
in italy , we have begun to withdraw and recycle around 80 % of old cars , but there is a market problem which could trigger a crisis - in terms of unemployment given that in italy industry often resorts to lay-offs and redundancies - and cause problems for workers in different parts of italy .
mr president , this directive deals with the comparatively small but growing problem of abandoned cars and the question of a more structured disposal of all cars at the end of their life .
that would mean billions of pounds or euros for each of the major companies in each of the countries of the european union .
the council ' s common position was to say that car manufacturers should bear all , or a significant part , of the costs of recovery and recycling .
the common position puts european car manufacturers in a disadvantageous position in relation to manufacturers which have just come to the european market .
mr president , commissioner , the proposed directive on end-of-life vehicles before us today aims firstly to guarantee a high level of environmental protection in the union , but also to safeguard the proper operation of the internal market in this sector .
the date on which the directive will come into force .
the common position was more feasible since it envisaged 2006 for vehicles already on the road .
it would be shameful to say the least if the european parliament were to draw back from the professions the governments of the 14 member states and the european commission have been making concerning manufacturer responsibility and environmental protection !
another point is that waste should not be incinerated or crushed , not only in the case of lead , cadmium and mercury , but also in the case of waste which contains pvc .
the other question is who should bear the cost .
we are more in agreement with the amendment proposed at first reading .
i come , of course , from a country that is proud of its car industry and of its commercial success both in europe and in third countries .
the men and women on the move throughout europe pay for their car and their catalytic converter , pay their national taxes and the tax on fuel and are therefore already paying a high price for their magnificent machine and their freedom of movement .
i do not wish to alter the text of the common position in any way .
the manufacturer is and should be liable and the last holder and / or owner must be able to hand back the car without any cost .
mr president , the present directive is important in so far as it helps prevent our being faced with hazardous waste from end-of-life vehicles and in so far as it promotes the re-use and recycling of materials from scrapped cars .
if you want the full benefits of this directive use your vote to throw out these amendments .
yesterday we honoured our institution with a political debate .
today , if 314 members of parliament yield to the strength of the lobbying of some car manufacturers , we should be doing ourselves dishonour .
most of the technical issues have been resolved .
there are some details to be finalised but most of the technical issues have been resolved .
i cannot accept that .
the common position is a reasonable compromise .
i cannot accept that and on behalf of the taxpayers and the consumers of europe i am voting against those amendments .
for there are considerably more than two million people employed in this sector .
mr president , we are indeed now in a very rare situation : those who wish to uphold environmental values will take the side of the council in their common position .
mr president , there are two issues of principle in the council ' s draft directive .
mr president , the common position is sound , but it is up to parliament to improve the common position on end-of-life vehicles .
the common position stipulates that manufacturers should not only bear the cost , they should also take back end-of-life vehicles .
the european consumer organisation , which has asked us to support the common position on this point , is to my mind letting the consumer down .
mr president , commissioner , i have asked to speak again so that i can say a few more words at the close of this debate .
you will also find that these cars are suitably disposed of , that new material flows have been opened up in order to recycle materials , that 85 % of the weight of a car is recycled and that 92 % of all cars in the netherlands are recycled .
i will only give the example of my own country to illustrate how this system functions there without any problems .
some businesses have become hi-tech businesses , because they managed to recycle certain materials , even materials which are not yet included in the directive .
what we are discussing here is the fact that close on ten million cars are scrapped every year in the european union , resulting in approximately as many millions of tons of waste .
the first question , then , is about who should pay .
we have what we require in order to deal with end-of-life cars .
after the first reading in the european parliament in 1999 , the commission ' s proposal ended up in an awkward political situation in the council .
a total of 48 amendments have been tabled .
this applies to amendment no 5 , excluding section 1 ; 8 and 9 , section 1 ; 10 and 12 , section 3 ; 15 , 16 , 20 , 22 , 24 and 25 .
amendments nos 6 and 21 are new ; the commission can approve these .
amendments nos 4 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 28 , 30 , 32 , 37 , 42 and 48 concern the phasing-out of heavy metals .
amendments nos 13 , 28 , 32 , 37 , 42 and 48 involve introducing unnecessary conditions and exceptions .
amendments nos 4 , 11 and 30 mean that heavy metals have to be separated from the waste before recycling .
amendments nos 17 , 18 , 27 , 34 , 36 , 38 , 44 and 45 relate to the manufacturer ' s liability .
amendment no 23 involves the commission ' s having to adopt quality standards for reusable components .
finally , the commission cannot approve amendments nos 1 and 33 for reasons to do with legal clarity ; nor amendment no 19 , which the commission considers to be unnecessary at this stage .
the debate is closed .
there is an error which has still not been corrected and that is on amendment no 4 .
the draft council decision amending decision 88 / 591 / ecsc , eec , euratom establishing a court of first instance of the european communities ( 5713 / 1999 - c5-0020 / 1999 - 1999 / 0803 ( cns ) ) and ii .
thank you , mr van velzen .
madam president , the socialist group proposes the following oral amendment .
expenditure on research and technology actually forms a sizeable part of the budget of the european union , after agriculture and the structural funds .
the various framework programmes have enabled not only high quality scientific work to take place but also innovative cooperation between researchers in various member states .
the fact is there are too few women involved in research work in the european union .
having said this , some of our fellow members clearly have qualms because the report by the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities which we have voted on contains one point which may lead to confusion and is interpreted by some as a quota stipulating that there must be 40 % female participating in research in europe .
they are involved in low-profile work of valuable cultural importance . - ( sv ) the parliamentary process concerning this question has been confusing , to say the least .
the directive concerning end-of-life vehicles will stand as an example for future legislation .
so let us vote for these amendments in order to preserve these gems of the automobile industry .
the precise wording of texts provides a guarantee and legal certainty for those people who will have to apply or live by these texts on a daily basis .
the directive remains in place .
thus , a more appropriate way to encourage recycling is to tax manufacturers who do not increase the amounts of recoverable material in their vehicles , to encourage private sector recycling companies , through a package of tax incentives and assistance on complying with environmental requirements , and to incentivise the use of recycled materials .
berger report ( a5-0007 / 2000 ) this proposal for a directive attempts to establish conditions for the posting of workers who are third-country nationals , for the provision of cross-border services .
basically , these proposals introduce the eu service provision card which will in future enable almost 5 million third country nationals legally resident in a european union member state to provide services in other member states , a phenomenon currently obstructed by problems such as the need to obtain visas and work permits .
the first proposal for a directive will authorise businesses established in a member state which employ workers who are third country nationals to assign such employees to another member state on a temporary basis to provide services there .
that is why i am voting in favour of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur .
marinho report ( a5-0003 / 2000 ) : we have serious reservations about the council ' s proposed amendments .
some people will say that perfection is not a realistic aim , but a brief look at the background should make our reservations more understandable to them : on 1 january 1995 , the council went back on the decision to increase the number of judges laid down in article 17 of the accession treaty of 24 june 1994 .
dimitrakopoulos and leinen report ( a5-0018 / 2000 ) - ( sv ) the most important task of the approaching intergovernmental conference is to reform the eu before the accession of the new member states .
incidentally , the french will probably be interested to learn that the commission is asking for article 67 of the amsterdam treaty to be amended in order to establish majority voting and codecision with the european parliament .
the french must be made aware not only that the purpose of all these operations is to eliminate their country as a responsible centre for decision making , but that furthermore every means will be used to extract their consent .
it is crucial for us that it should be possible for this intergovernmental conference to be concluded before the end of the year 2000 so that there are no remaining formalities , such as the weighting of votes in the council of ministers and the composition of the commission and the european parliament , which place obstacles in the way of the enlargement of the eu .
in other words , fifteen people are going to have discussions and decide , behind closed doors , on the fate of more than 350 million individuals .
unfortunately , in the issues covered by the resolutions on future subjects for revisions to the treaty on european union , nothing has so far been stated about the need to review article 7 , which deals with suspending a state in the event of a serious and persistent violation of the " founding " principles of the union , as laid down in article 6 .
the european parliament and its committee on constitutional affairs ought instead to have been more specific and concentrated on just a few points in addition to the council decision in helsinki , so stating what it considered to be the most pressing matters for discussion , including the question of establishing a public prosecutor to deal with crimes against the institutions of the european union and their financial interests .
i also refer to my explanation of vote of 18 november 1999 which clarifies my attitude towards supranationalism and common defence .
joint resolution on austria madam president , the union for a europe of nations group did not associate itself with the joint ppe / de-pse resolution on the political situation in austria following the formation in that country of a coalition government between the conservatives and jorg haider ' s freedom party .
in our opinion , it is clear that the left wing in the european parliament , in association with the austrian left wing which was defeated in the electoral arena , have mounted a petty political campaign resorting to the memory of a sinister but fortunately bygone period .
i also wonder about the wisdom of the eu and its reaction to the formation of the government in austria and how that is going to affect public opinion there .
there is the tragic monument of the holocaust , the death of 6 million jews , to those who argued the same case with respect to germany in the 1930s .
madam president , we have just passed a resolution which condemns the racist and xenophobic record of jorg haider ' s freedom party in austria , which has welcomed action by our governments to cut off political relations with any government of which he is part , and which sends our support to anti-racist groups within the democratic majority of the austrian people .
this european parliament requires the european commission to be vigilant of any racist action in austria , and threatens to suspend austria from membership of the european union if this happens .
our vote in no way constitutes an endorsement of the signatories to this compromise resolution , their present policy or their future attitude should the threat of the extreme right become more serious .
however , as it lacks the legal instruments to support this political will , since the sanctions stipulated under article 7 of the treaties are virtually impossible to apply , will it be able to keep its head high in the face of the threat of the systematic blocking of its entire institutional structure ?
it is our responsibility as a parliament , particularly as the democratically elected voice of the european union , to comment on current political developments in austria which are in conflict with the policies of this parliament .
that is why the european union must make its position clear regarding the current situation in austria . - ( sv ) we have voted in favour of the common resolution in order to express our solidarity with all those who are exposed to xenophobia and racism .
we are nonetheless very critical of the methods which the 14 member states have employed on this issue .
the resolution makes no clear reference to respect for the member states ' national identities and constitutional traditions in accordance with article 6 of the treaty .
a radical policy to promote security and justice in each country is the best guarantee of democratic development in europe . - ( de ) i am making this statement on behalf of the csu .
it is intolerable that the eu should involve itself in the formation of the government in a member state .
however , as politicians we must ask the question why 27 % of the austrian population voted for a party such as the fpo at the elections in october 1999 .
for these reasons the csu european delegates are against this resolution .
for the first time since the second world war , a party which is openly pro-nazi , racist and xenophobic has gained access to power in a european country .
it was only after they unsuccessfully solicited the fpo to tolerate a minority government and , obviously in vain , offered the freedom party ministerial posts , that the spo begin its massive campaign against haider .
the council has become prematurely involved without waiting for the results of the coalition negotiations or a programme of government .
any interference by the european institutions in this country is therefore unacceptable ; it is in violation of the european treaty ( article 7 of the treaty of amsterdam ) .
i believe there are circumstances when the question of principles and institutional regulations is obliterated .
personally i argued in favour of a rather harder line , and i supported amendments nos 1 , 4 , 6 , 7 and 8 , as well as the oral amendment tabled by the socialist group .
including jorg haider ' s party in a coalition government makes the presence of the extreme right an everyday fact of life in europe , and sets an extremely dangerous precedent which may generate a serious aftermath in other union member states or in candidate countries .
the austrian people ' s party must accept some historical responsibility for this .
i condemn jorg haider ' s racist and xenophobic policy .
i cannot therefore accept paragraph 4 in the joint resolution , and i cannot vote in favour of the resolution , even though it would be a vote against the extreme right . - ( sv ) obviously , the political leaders of europe have a right and a duty to react against mr haider and his party .
the political leaders of europe are entitled to express their view of political developments in another member state , just as a prime minister can express his opinion about racist politicians in a local authority .
the treaties do not authorise this reaction by the 14 member states .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 3 february 2000 .
madam president , since these matters are currently being considered by the quaestors , may i ask you to use your influence both to ensure that the register of interests is brought up to date and modified to cover instances of this kind and , above all , to ensure that the register is not only available for inspection by this house , but is also published on the internet ?
thank you , mr davies .
i would urge members to sign up to the commitment made today at the winning hearts conference that every child born in the new millennium has the right to live until the age of at least 65 without suffering from avoidable cardiovascular disease .
i would welcome an assurance from you that you will order an investigation to ensure that the two members who were named in this particular bbc interview are not running their companies from this parliament or from parliamentary offices , because that would be a very serious matter indeed .
thank you , mr murphy .
thank you , mr wurtz .
agenda the next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the conference of presidents , pursuant to rule 110 of the rules of procedure .
is there anyone who wishes to speak on behalf of these groups in favour of this proposal ?
i think that we , as a parliament , even now have to assume our responsibility and speak out on the situation in cambodia . ( parliament gave its assent ) president .
madam president , it is remarkable that the european parliament has not yet adopted a position on the possible release of mr pinochet , despite the fact that international arrest warrants have already been issued .
madam president , this matter is far too serious to be dealt with by means of an urgent procedure at this time .
the first is that this matter is sub judice in several european countries , and i would like to remind members that there is still no european judicial area nor a european legal system .
we believe that justice should be done in this case , but this is not the most appropriate procedure . ( parliament rejected the proposal ) president .
we consider the matter to be important enough for the commission to react swiftly to this situation , and i think that parliament must make its position clear and vote on a resolution on the subject . ( parliament gave its assent ) president .
madam president , with apologies to my friend , enrique baron crespo , i should like to speak against this proposal .
deciding upon future policy lines , with a view to a new directive , rather hastily , without having had time to consult the trade unions or have discussions with all the social partners , i feel , runs counter to the spirit we wish to inject into the debate on matters which directly involve the social operators .
madam president , this afternoon , in this chamber , reference was made to a series of reports on the bbc today programme this morning , which claimed that certain of my colleagues were running personal lobbying companies or somehow misusing their position as members of this house .
upon referral to committee , we examined over a hundred amendments and , so far , 17 amendments , some of which have already been presented in committee , have once again been tabled .
the interreg initiative , created in 1990 , is built upon the wish to make the regions of europe ready for a ' europe without frontiers ' in the context of establishing the great single market .
at the time of the reform of the structural funds in 1994 and 1996 , the interreg cip has incorporated new strands contributing to the development of trans-european transport and energy distribution networks .
these programmes promoted cross-border , transnational and interregional cooperation within the european union by encouraging balanced development of the community area .
the interreg iii programme , for which we have before us today the guidelines issued by the european commission , pursuant to the terms of european community regulation no 1260 de 1999 laying down general provisions on the structural funds , continues these measures .
the european commission draws up the list of eligible regions for strand a and strand b .
the commission draws up a list of priority areas and eligible measures which for strand a is not comprehensive , but is comprehensive for strand b .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the conference on rural development held in cork from 7 to 9 november 1996 set rural development as one of the european union ' s priorities since it is essential in order to maintain the existence and continued development of agriculture , to provide farmers with an environment containing the necessary infrastructure and services , and to ensure greater respect for the environment and a better quality of life , diversification and job creation .
an integrated development policy for all rural areas in the european union is therefore needed , consisting of the following elements : an integrated , multi-sectoral approach , simplification of administrative procedures , improvement of the partnership between european institutions and national and local actors and protection of the environment .
the leader community initiative was launched in 1991 to promote a new bottom-up approach to rural development and to diversify measures by adapting them to local needs .
leader i applied to the rural areas covered by structural fund objectives 1 and 5b , and 217 local action groups participated in it , with financing of eur 1 155 million .
for the 2000-2006 period provision has been made , unfortunately , only for a total contribution of eur 2 020 million , and an indicative allocation for each member state has been set .
it is an important community initiative which , together with the three other initiatives , urban , leader and interreg , is financed out of the structural funds .
this has meant a reduction in the number of amendments - from over 100 in committee to 22 for the plenary - which has also created numerous opportunities for compromises .
madam president , it is in itself an achievement that we are having this debate on the new urban community initiative and it is an achievement that i am here tonight because air france cancelled my flight at 2.10 p.m .
yet we as politicians knew that there was a groundswell of support for continuing this initiative into the year 2000 .
for example , in my own region , in manchester , the urban community initiative has been a tremendous success .
the millennium youth park project is helping to get young people re-engaged in regenerating their own community and in addition to support for small businesses and social policy we are beginning to see a turnaround of a very deprived urban community .
all these complex problems undermine the quality of life for our urban residents , yet we have the potential in these areas to create growth and prosperity .
it is better to have quality projects with the active participation of community groups than to have projects delivered on time but without local participation .
the commission must of course provide full disclosure and transparency concerning the selection criteria used for the new urban initiatives but it must also disclose the consultancy networks which are being used to deliver the exchange of good practice .
as we have heard , the objective of urban is the promotion of innovative strategies to promote economic and social regeneration in urban areas , bearing in mind that 80 % of the population of europe lives in cities .
however , we must remember that , in addition to urban , a number of other community instruments are also available in the social sector : innovative actions under article 6 of the esf regulation , pilot projects , particularly the new preparatory action for local commitment to employment that has just been introduced by the european parliament under the 2000 budget and the equal and interreg initiatives and mainstream esf activities .
not only is this coordination essential but , as we stated in our opinion , exchanges and the dissemination of expertise and good practice must also be essential .
mr president , our committee welcomed the priorities proposed by the commission for the urban programme of better integration of local communities and ethnic minorities and improved security and crime prevention .
we would particularly like to stress that there must be balanced representation between men and women in all of these bodies .
we would also like to stress that the main objective is the promotion of strategies for sustainable development , whose positive effects would extend to a broader geographical area than the local community itself , and we therefore feel it is appropriate for the projects to be integrated into the development programmes , included in objectives 1 and 2 , and into the regional planning of the regions and countries in which they are located .
the committee believes that projects financed under action 1 should place value on the potential of endogenous development , in particular based on local traditions , techniques and practices , on specific production and on the management of sustainable energy .
we believe it is necessary to coordinate the development objectives and management mechanisms of actions 2 and 3 , financed by leader , with those of other actions financed by other community programmes relating to interregional and international cooperation and partnership , such as interreg , sapar , phare , tacis and meda , in the same areas . . ( it ) madam president , i shall speak for two minutes on behalf of the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities , and for the other two minutes on behalf of the socialist group that i represent within the committee on employment and social affairs on the equal report .
we have put a lot of time into coming up with a definition of ' asylum-seeker ' because it is difficult from a legal point of view , but i think that we have now achieved a compromise with the rapporteur - at least i hope we have - and the silence on the report on asylum-seekers , which parliament is going to put to the vote must be seen as parliament supporting the commission ' s position .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism adopted this opinion on the equal report at its concluding discussion with no votes against and one abstention .
the committee based its conclusions on these critical comments .
dovetailing the activities under the community initiative with the european employment initiatives is an essential requirement and a crucial prerequisite for attaining the objectives of the equal programme .
we fully support the innovative approach towards setting up development partnerships and organising the exchange of experience at european level as an integral part of the equal programme .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it has already been mentioned today that the first urban initiative was an unqualified success .
to increase the effectiveness of individual measures the number of projects for urban ii has been limited to 50 .
in any case it is necessary to ensure that in small member states in particular it is not only areas of large cities which are again in receipt of the support .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to thank the rapporteurs , who have managed to produce excellent reports in just a short time .
the reports are late , and , in addition , they were very hastily discussed by the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
our group would once again like to raise the issue of the practical monitoring of funds and emphasise the importance of better coordination of the interreg , tacis , ispa and phare programmes .
we here in parliament are waiting for the commission to give the committee a more detailed explanation of the issue as soon as possible .
it is of decisive importance to get local business , organisations and other players involved in the practical implementation of programmes .
i would like to mention here again the urban report , in which the rapporteur , in the explanatory statements , has dealt admirably with the issue of the minimum sum of eur 500 per inhabitant as per the commission ' s guidelines .
mr president , a third of eu money is invested in funds for all kinds of development causes .
in some cases , i get the impression that it is not about solidarity or alleviating the most desperate problems , but about propaganda and upholding vested interests in exchange for the european union ' s blessing .
after the planned accession of new member states with their 100 million inhabitants , the prosperity level of which is at one third or two thirds of the average level of the current eu member states , this squandering will generate even more protest .
a second point where we need to focus our attention is the possibility of nepotism and abuse of power within regional and local councils .
so , really , these bodies should already provide for a balance , and take into account the wishes of the union movement and environmental movement in the process .
some areas within the european union are economically very strong and heavily exceed the average income per capita .
the core aspects of this debate this evening relate to the operation of the eu initiative programmes , namely , the new interreg iii initiative , equal and the leader + scheme .
this is why it is useful for the european union to continue to support the member states and , if necessary , give additional support under urban .
over the next seven years , the commission ' s proposals concerning urban will entail a reduction in both the community budget and the number of areas standing to benefit .
consequently , we cannot support amendment no 2 of the greens , as borne out in the committee meeting .
i would like to finish off by making a general comment on interreg .
hence our amendment in order to prevent contradictions between general policy and actual projects .
the preservation of this community initiative in particular , in the form of a new version - leader + - is therefore greatly to be welcomed .
it is important for there to be coordination between leader + and the other support initiatives in the european union , but coordination with other national support schemes is also just as important .
leader must now move into the implementation phase .
we must create joint , interregional and transnational management bodies , in which all local and regional authorities , as well as economic and social operators , play an active role .
during debates in committee , we have also pointed out the difficulties involved in coordinating interreg with other annual or biannual financial instruments , such as meda , tacis or phare .
this parliament ' s motion for a resolution has been very attentive to these difficulties , making proposals capable of solving them to the commission and setting reasonable deadlines for making the necessary changes .
even in member states and cities that are extremely wealthy we have large numbers of people living in ghettos , in situations where there are inadequate facilities , where schooling is very poor , where the physical infrastructure is under-developed and where drugs and other phenomena are rife .
it seems to me that in order for the european union to demonstrate that it has a role in helping the citizens of the european union it must give assistance to member states to demonstrate that the union works for these citizens and their families .
it is important that they use their initiative and their own local expertise in developing this initiative .
the development partnerships are a very clever idea , even though they are experimental .
i am glad to see that this was accepted into the report , but i cannot agree with amendment no 9 because that amendment really is not expressed in simple language at all .
although i am not in favour of those refugees who have been refused refugee status and threatened with repatriation , having access to equal , i would support the possibility of access for all other asylum-seekers and refugees .
this does not happen all that often and it is gratifying , especially as the leader programmes have been key elements in the union ' s rural development policy .
it must be pointed out that these programmes have not only been instrumental in structuring regional planning , but have also been vital instruments for economic and social cohesion in often vulnerable areas such as , for example , areas experiencing depopulation .
so , the concept for leader + should retain all the positive aspects of previous programmes .
a better solution would be , as indeed the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism suggests , strengthened coordination between leader + and the community cooperation and partnership programmes , such as interreg , phare , sapard or meda .
mr president , i have a few very brief comments .
for example , adapting equal to the objectives of employability and the flexibilisation of labour relations transforms this initiative into a new version of local employment contracts .
the interreg initiative must include eligible areas with special emphasis on border areas , islands and both mountain and non-mountain areas , such as the prefecture of arta in greece , whose omission from annex i of the commission ' s communication is ill-considered .
the voluntary participation of people in development programmes is something that is not always fully appreciated .
yet , through leader , there can be no doubting its effectiveness as an integral part of broader eu and national policy .
i should also like to give my considered support to the comments of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , particularly and primarily in deploring the failure to integrate the most remote regions into strand a of the programme or in commenting upon the lack of precision in the selection criteria for the implementation methods for strand iii c and , finally , in requesting that members of the european parliament should be involved in the european observatory for cross-border , transregional and interregional cooperation .
i should further like to express major reservations with regard to the exaggerated tendency which , in the commission communication with reference to interreg iii and iii b , involves associating environmental protection exclusively with the development of natura 2000 , which i think is often an excessively abstract means of safeguarding ecosystems , from which users are in danger of being excluded or severely restricted .
it would be even better if they were involved to a greater extent in the processes of framing and implementing the programmes concerned , otherwise it will be difficult to determine and defend their role in relation to the local and national authorities and even the citizens .
only , the number of people affected by these programmes has not really dropped .
this is why it is so hard to strike a balance , not only between the different countries or the different components , but especially between the different groups listed in the programme , and in fact this is what has preoccupied us to date .
although a few other groups have been mentioned , it is the member states , in particular , which are on the lookout .
as far as the commission is concerned , i hope it will be able to join in the compromise that is being concluded here in this parliament , mainly with a view to reaching a balance .
the position of parliament in this whole procedure is somewhat unclear .
so far , some balkan countries have received aid from the phare and obnova programmes , while others have not .
during the new programme period , in view of enlargement and bearing in mind that funding has been provided for from new financial instruments and regulations , such as ispa and sapard , it is considered absolutely essential to coordinate the funding of all three strands of interreg with other financial aid to third countries .
accordingly , we welcome the related references in chapter 7 of the european commission ' s proposed general guidelines for interreg .
the efforts to coordinate the planning and so make it more effective must extend to all the programmes equally , and i say that because in the meda programme during the last period some problems arose which have to be overcome , so that we can have equal treatment for all the third countries participating in that programme .
only if the population can stay in the countryside will the quality of life in the countryside also be permanently assured .
mr president , during the last eu financial perspective from 1994 to 1999 , when there were 13 different initiatives in operation , the interreg ii cross-border programme was an important initiative .
the interreg i programme between 1989 and 1993 and the interreg ii programme between 1994 and 1999 have proved an absolute success in terms of bridging closer social and economic development between bordering member states .
coming from the border counties in the north-west of ireland , i have seen over the years the important role which interreg i and ii have played and i am delighted to welcome interreg iii .
the commission is allocating 67 million pounds towards the interreg iii programme , which will be spent on continuing the development of cross-border economic projects between the republic of ireland and northern ireland .
the european union is the single largest contributor , with 80 million pounds to the international fund for ireland .
this is in line with ongoing discrimination , which ignores article 158 of the treaty on island regions with regard to cohesion policies .
this has given rise to the proposals we are making to at least extend the regions eligible to include the nuts iii sicilian provinces which have a frontier with malta and to include all the regions of the adriatic which share a frontier with balkan regions .
for a long time , probably a survival of our colonial heritage , our regions have fixed their attention on the european mainland , ignoring and even scorning their closest neighbours .
interreg appropriations may be used to make our regions into veritable european union bridgeheads into these geographical areas , giving it worldwide scope .
mr president , commissioners , i greatly welcome the possibilities for increased trans-european cooperation under interreg , but my concern is that the proposal offers fewer opportunities in this respect for maritime than for other areas .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i shall confine my observations to mr decourriere ' s report .
interreg must , therefore , be an instrument promoting territorial cohesion throughout the union if we do not wish to see a two- or even three-speed european territory .
it is obvious to me that the regional and local authorities , and their representative bodies , the committee of the regions and , of course , the european parliament should have been involved in the clearest way possible and at the earliest possible opportunity framing this programme .
indeed , i am forced to observe that this was not the case when the commission drew up its communication , published on 13 october last year .
the most remote regions , particularly the four french overseas departments , must be able to coordinate interreg iii and the edf in order to fund , in turn , cooperation projects with their acp neighbours in their respective geographical areas .
it is essential for these regions to be able to benefit fully from interreg iii , just like all the other regions in the union , especially now that the regis programme dedicated to such isolated regions has been dropped .
mr president , my starting point is the equal report and equality between men and women , although i must admit that it is sometimes hard to talk about this issue , which has a feeling of deja vu about it when you are my age , in any case .
that is why , where the good leader projects are concerned , we need to ensure that those which have proved to be outstanding are not suddenly discontinued ; instead the ideas which have proved to be worthwhile need at some stage to be transferred into the standard programmes as a reliable , positive component of our support to rural areas .
there should be no attempt to have one or other organisation , which is just being formed with a view to contributing a new idea and is not yet so well known , pushed a little on to the sidelines , say because of official local or regional policy .
my group will be supporting amendment no. 22 .
mr president , commissioners , ladies and gentlemen , leader i was an outright success due , in particular , to the great flexibility of the administrative management between the commission and the local operators .
i am pleased to see , however , that under leader + , new resources have been allocated to helping rural territories to develop their potential and to implement the objectives of local and sustainable development .
i feel it is important to put special emphasis on trying out new ways to raise the profile of the natural and cultural heritage and to strengthen the economic environment , in order to promote employment .
it is interesting to note that all rural areas may be eligible for leader ii .
nonetheless , if the opportunity for member states to determine the areas , within the scope of this initiative , remains available , then the commission will have to ensure a certain focusing of resources and prioritise projects in the less prosperous areas .
mr president , as a member from one of the outermost regions , i must point out that this is a very special afternoon as far as regional policy is concerned , because of the debate on two community initiatives , urban and interreg .
i would like to remind you that these initiatives are aimed , firstly , in the case of urban , at improving the quality of life of the citizens who live in the poorer parts of various european cities , and , in the case of interreg , at facilitating cohesion and recognising the diversity and potential of the regions of the european union , particularly by including the outermost regions in strands b and c .
it is a fact that we are debating this programme today because the european parliament insisted that this initiative should be maintained .
the commission proposed removing it and other initiatives , but parliament ' s proposal and the sensitivity of the commission itself at the time led to the urban initiative being retained .
today the programme is in place and therefore i believe we have achieved something important , that distinguishing mark of the european union called the urban programme .
the urban dimension must be incorporated much more deeply in all the structural funds .
the amount of budget required by our cities - where 80 % of the european population live and which increasingly represent both the best and the worst of what we have in europe , i believe , clearly indicates that the european dimension should be taken into account and that this urban programme should not be used as an excuse not to analyse in detail , not to prioritise and , therefore , not to introduce an infinitely greater budgetary contribution into programmes which affect the cities , by means of european funds .
in welcoming the cross-sectoral approach embodied in the new equal initiative , it is crucial that the programme addresses the distinct forms of discrimination which militate against disabled people in particular : physical barriers in the workplace affecting those with limited mobility , visual information systems which exclude blind workers , working systems which effectively close the door on people with learning difficulties or with mental health problems .
that is why this parliament has put forward paragraphs 10 and 15 of the resolution , to ensure that member states cannot ignore any one target group .
because disabled people do not form one homogenous group - for example many deaf people see themselves as a linguistic minority denied respect for their own language and culture - it is necessary as stated in paragraph 9 to enable some partnerships to be defined which are specific to a particular disability or other group .
finally , a word on interreg .
it really is quite nonsensical that partnerships set up in 1994 are being rolled over now to the exclusion of new inter-regional links .
it will therefore be necessary to increase the quality of the programmes because the eaggf is supposed to be an effective financial instrument .
it is good that urban is to continue , as it has had good results at local level .
the majority of the population of europe live in cities , and their problems are among the most pressing within the context of regional policy and very complex matters in themselves .
we always come back to the same basic problem in europe : our economy does not support the individual sufficiently , nor is it sufficiently dynamic .
mr president , with the implementation of interreg iii , european cooperation policy is entering a new phase .
in the context of globalisation and cultural openness which characterise the current situation , the european union needs instruments that will allow it to strengthen its links and communication channels with neighbouring regions , particularly in eastern and southern europe .
by means of amendments adopted in committee , parliament has tried to supplement the commission ' s work , by including new elements in the list of areas targeted for aid , and in particular external border areas and maritime border areas in southern europe .
as president prodi too mentioned when outlining the strategic objectives for the period 2000-2005 , boosting the barcelona process is a priority for the union , and the interreg iii initiative will be able to make its contribution to the pursuit of this strategic objective .
the commission cannot therefore be relieved of direct responsibility or the task of carrying out inspections under equal either .
mr president , i want to refer to the commission proposals on the budget line to promote the cap .
on 26 october 1999 the european commission adopted a proposal to ensure that a legal basis is given to the budget line informing the public about the cap .
this proposal will remove the current budget line b2-5122 and create a new budget heading b1-382 .
actions which promote understanding between young farmers and the eu and also create stronger links with eu candidate countries and the outside world are important .
regarding information and training , in the past this budget line has been allocated for information , communication and training .
these people live in areas which should benefit from these projects .
if we have success in this threefold sense , i believe that these families , these people , these european citizens , will believe more in europe , and this seems to me to be very important because , ultimately , the cities will increasingly come to play a leading role in european life .
the recently published 6th periodic report on the european regions demonstrates this clearly by revealing that the 25 most heavily agricultural regions in the european union have the highest rate of unemployment , in addition to their traditional problems of an ageing population and desertification .
i am mindful of the fact that it was in fact the european parliament which made the political decision and supported the continuation of this initiative for the regeneration of urban areas in difficulties , in favour of sustainable urban development , involving at the same time this integrated approach , which we value , to handle the economic , social and environmental aspects simultaneously .
having mentioned the fundamental points of agreement between the commission ' s proposals and parliament and , having stressed my great interest in hearing the various contributions , i should like to answer a few of the criticisms and a few of the suggestions which have been made , with apologies if i cannot attribute each of the questions to the speakers by name .
i have therefore asked my services to be willing to consider a reasonable increase in the number of towns eligible under the urban programme conditional upon certain guarantees , firstly on concentration - i am thinking particularly of the target areas which must have a minimum of 20 000 or , in exceptional cases , 10 000 inhabitants - and also upon the critical mass of funding : we must keep to eur 500 per inhabitant so that the european union action may be both effective and clear , and so that it does not resemble a sort of scattering of resources which would have no real impact either for citizens or for municipalities .
third point : specific measures in favour of some social groups - some speakers mentioned them - women , but also immigrants and refugees , must be envisaged .
but , as for the future , since we must look ahead , i am extremely concerned to see how urban is going to be implemented in practical terms , and also to see what our experience will be and what lessons we can learn , because plainly these urban issues are going to be the focus of what may be , for future financial perspectives , a new european regional planning policy .
i am not forgetting , and we cannot forget , that 80 % of the citizens of europe today live in towns and that is why this urban instrument is extremely important .
you comment that these guidelines were adopted at too late a date , stressing , particularly your rapporteur , the risk that the previous programmes will be interrupted .
i note , however , that the member states and the regions are already actively preparing the programmes for interreg iii and indeed the guidance project was distributed over three months ago now .
i also note that eligibility for expenditure shall be accepted from the date that programmes are presented and i can confirm the possibility that they may be available retroactively back to 1 january , if the programme is presented before 30 april .
as to the second comment : regarding the non-comprehensive list of measures eligible under strand b , i wish to inform you , to confirm , that i have asked the commission to accept the inclusion of other specific subjects , particularly in favour of small- and medium-sized businesses and of cultural heritage , in the list of schemes eligible under strand b and that therefore this list must no longer be considered as a comprehensive one .
as you requested , i have decided to remove all references to the use of a technical assistance office in the text until the outcome of the debate in progress within the commission on the service outsourcing systems .
but , ladies and gentlemen , if we do remove every reference and any recourse to a tao at a later date then this will have a consequence and that will be an increase in the number of officials ' jobs needed to do this work , because somebody will have to do it and i cannot keep redeploying the same staff indefinitely , at a time when our duties are increasing with the pre-accession structural instrument ( ispa ) and in order to ensure that , the community appropriations for which i am responsible , often in partnership or on terms of coresponsibility with member states , are monitored better , with discipline and transparency .
in addition to this one overture there is a second which we have already suggested to the member states : greater financial flexibility between strand a and strand b .
thanks to these two overtures , especially the first , i can say that the commission is willing to examine the case of italian regions and regions of third countries around the adriatic in order to promote the most appropriate cooperation under interreg , and with other instruments too , as soon as they become available .
i have decided , in the end , that the most remote regions , to which i attach particular importance , will be given special priority in the context of the transnational strand of interreg , with a cooperation strategy which will aim at improving their links with their neighbours and other member state regions .
all this should make it possible for us , apart from the objective 1 appropriations and also with them , to confirm the role of ' active frontier ' of the union .
another point : the coordination between interreg , phare , tacis and meda .
an initial joint phare / cip committee is to meet in february to assess this coordination , and let me confirm my attentiveness and availability with regard to this , together with my colleagues and fellow commissioners verheugen , patten and poul nielson .
according to the general regulations , however , any technical assistance scheme which can claim a connection with a community initiative must be proposed under article 20 , and not article 23 .
this means that the ceiling of 0.25 % mentioned in article 23 does not apply with regard to this type of technical assistance .
i remain at your service in order , when the time comes , to present the report of previous planning which you request , but also to keep you informed regularly as to the implementation of these initiatives in the course of the new planning .
repeating my thanks to each and every one of you , and also particularly to arlene mccarthy and francis decourriere , i should like to point out that these two initiatives lie within a financial framework with which you are familiar : only eur 700 million for urban , but this is better than nothing ; eur 4 billion 800 millions for interreg .
on the subject of these two initiatives , then , with the light they cast on future strategic and political thinking regarding regional planning and on future financial perspectives , let me express our great interest in this constructive dialogue with the european parliament and its committees .
as far as the possibility of having projects containing training initiatives is concerned , i might point out that this is precisely a point which we have now integrated into the new rural development policy , which means , in our view , that it is no longer necessary to do this as part of leader .
i should simply like to point out that this does not make very much sense at the present time because , as you know , it is still possible - and in fact will be until the end of 2001 - for leader ii funds to be disbursed .
it has already been compiled by the commission and i can make a copy available to any member of this house who is interested .
in point 21 , parliament stresses that the guidelines in leader + now need to be adopted quickly so that the programmes can start .
for all programmes submitted before 30 april of this year it will be possible to backdate the beginning of the period of eligibility to 1 january .
finally , under point 20 the motion for a resolution contains seven specific proposals for amendments to the guidelines .
the proposal in paragraph 6 will also be partly accepted because it reaffirms that the time allowed for approving programmes under leader + is a maximum of 5 months .
the amendment proposed under paragraph 1 has , in our view , been overtaken by events because , following consultations with the representatives of the member states in the star committee , this point has already been reworded along the lines proposed by parliament .
i must add , however , that cooperation between our action groups and similar groups in third countries went too far for the member states .
i will comment briefly on the 13 amendments tabled .
it is worth stressing that both parliament and the commission must put forward specific policies .
i agree that article 13 contains something we have expressed our disagreement about , but that is how the treaty stands right now and among the categories of types of discrimination , discrimination on the grounds of gender holds equal place .
i would like to remind you , however , that there is a special axis for the employment strategy which relates to women and that a special programme is being prepared , the fifth programme for equality between men and women .
approval of the minutes of the two previous sittings the minutes of the sittings of thursday 3 february and monday 14 february have been distributed .
if air france insists on boycotting the european parliament , we should take measures to prevent this occurring again .
thank you , mr medina ortega .
madam president , i had the same experience as mr medina ortega yesterday .
thank you , mr lannoye .
madam president , i should like to make a request in connection with today ' s vote which i started to make yesterday during the debate on the equal report .
mr corbett , i have not received any notification .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , a five-year programme is an extremely important undertaking , and this is why i preferred that you be given the unabridged text of the speech , which is available in four languages .
to respect my speaking time , i will confine myself to referring only to the broad outlines of my programme : a programme for the dawning of a new legislature and a new century , when it is right and proper to see europe in a broader perspective , a europe which is currently in a paradoxical situation .
let us remember that for half a century , europe has provided us with peace , security and freedom and a united europe has also contributed to giving us a period of unprecedented prosperity .
the crisis in the commission was , in fact , a crucial point in the relationship between europe and its citizens , and the low turnout at the european elections was a worrying indication of this .
even stronger still , however , is the sense of insecurity , the feeling of being unprepared in a new world that is moving forwards , a world which is completely changing , where globalisation will even end up changing our points of reference .
some countries - such as france and spain - managed to meet the challenge , giving rise to great nation states ; other countries - such as italy - did not meet this challenge and lost all the headway that they had accumulated during the first part of that millennium : headway in science , technology , economic progress , defence structures and military organisation , philosophy and literature .
but more vital still is a europe that feels strong in the political arena .
in years past , the single market and the single currency have been the pivotal point of our actions , the mainstay of european life .
today , the new frontiers of european integration are political frontiers : common foreign and security policy , justice and internal security , and - to a lesser extent - the crucial question of the fundamental political values on which our coexistence is based .
the commission has therefore adopted the strategic programme for 2000-2005 , a programme that was immediately sent to the european parliament and with which you are already familiar , so i will not go into detail about it now .
we must govern europe in such a way as to make us more efficient , to bring us closer to the citizens and to encourage everyone to get involved , starting with the important issue of the involvement of women .
one of the main differences in the comparison made recently between europe and the united states was not so much job mobility or risk capital , as women ' s involvement in economic life , an issue that has much more prominence in the united states than in europe .
the commission must define what its fundamental activities are , what it must concentrate on and shed its non-essential activities , thereby freeing up new resources and ensuring a more correct and co-operative relationship with individual countries , regions and local communities .
when that time comes , when we have used up all our resources , i shall not hesitate to come here before you to request further resources , but what i am saying now is that if we are not given these necessary resources , we shall have to refuse to take on any new duties because the available resources will not be commensurate with the new tasks that we will be taking on .
if we do not do this , we shall have failed in our duty .
remember that the marshall plan was not effective simply because of the scale of its resources : it was even more effective because it made us europeans work together towards a new horizon ; it gave us a fresh outlook in terms of our politics and our economy .
europe must prove - in the balkans and the rest of the world - its ability to extend the area of security , peace and freedom and its ability to take a leading role on the international stage .
we have made many promises in this regard , but i believe we shall succeed in keeping our promises even though we have a very delicate path to tread .
indeed , enlargement , which will be with us for our five years in office and beyond - i am referring to the aspirations of applicant countries - must hinge on concrete , objective criteria , and also on reassuring public opinion in the countries involved and , to an even greater degree , public opinion in our own member states .
i repeat : we must reassure public opinion in those countries that wish to join but we need to provide public opinion in our own member states with even greater reassurance .
we therefore have another duty at international level , which has already been proposed by the commissioner responsible for trade : the undertaking to relaunch the millennium round and to take on some fundamental problems affecting the poorest countries , not just in terms of writing off debts , but also via the unilateral opening-up to trade with the poorest countries in the world , with a great deal of willingness on our part , which we had already proposed prior to seattle but which we could not put into practice .
all over the world , europe ' s actions must be guided by a deep respect for the principles of freedom and respect for the rights of individuals and minorities .
we should remember that we , the european union , are a union of minorities : we are all a minority within europe .
this is what we wish to do : maintain our role as a supranational structure , maintain the role conferred on us by the treaties , but also be unwavering on principles and make judgements based on facts .
i would ask the council to adopt it swiftly and i would ask parliament to help us with this action which will further strengthen the fundamental bases of our social cohesion .
i will quickly conclude by mentioning the last two points of our programme : the economy and quality of life .
i have already talked about the economy : we well know which basic ingredients will set europe on the path towards a lasting recovery which will in turn create more jobs .
the forthcoming lisbon summit on these issues - dissemination of technology , employment - will be a decisive summit .
it has taken four years for us to be in a position to hold a summit of this kind .
the erika oil slick and the contamination of the danube demonstrates the pressing need for european scale intervention to safeguard the environment .
if it is higher than at the previous elections , it will mean that we have successfully met our challenge .
madam president , mr president of the commission , the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats welcomes this debate and we welcome the fact that the commission submitted a document so that we could prepare for the debate .
we read in the conclusions in the document that the five-year term of office of the prodi commission will be a time of major changes .
europe will press ahead with integration ; at the same time the union will start an enlargement process which will , in the end , reunite our continent .
however , we consider that the present is the basis of the future and we shall only be able to shape the future if we prove our worth in the present .
mr president of the commission , you have represented and defended the european parliament time and again over recent weeks .
you spoke in your paper of decentralisation and subsidiarity .
however , there is a current trend - the " fauna , flora , habitat " directive was quoted as an example - which , in my country at least , creates the impression that associations are bypassing national and regional institutions and submitting programmes to brussels and that brussels is then making decisions affecting the property of countless agricultural holdings in the countries of the european union .
we must preserve this law and peace in the european union if we are to be able to go forth as peacemakers in the world . ( applause ) madam president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i would like to welcome the presentation of , and the first ever debate on , the commission ' s programme for government - the word president prodi is so fond of ; as i am -for the whole legislature .
i am pointing this out because i believe that our support for the commission also has to lead to continuity in the work carried out throughout the legislature .
last week , the new minister for finance of the austrian coalition described the austrian parliament as a farce and a theatre .
we understand that the first priority is the economic and social agenda , which also includes what is known as ' quality of life ' priorities , that is to say , the rights of citizens as consumers and as people , in relation to those questions which we always talk about , but never give sufficient priority to , that is , the european social model and its adaptation to the new circumstances , consumer rights , respect for the environment and sustainable development .
the issue of taxation also seems to us to be absolutely essential .
i would be clearly in favour of subsidiarity .
in all other areas , i believe that subsidiarity is also relevant to this discussion .
not only should the commission discuss this , but also our states , our parliaments and our civil society .
madam president , i would like to refer briefly to the last objective , which seems to us to be absolutely fundamental : the stabilisation of the continent and the strengthening of the europe ' s role in the world .
we must not forget africa , a continent which has been forsaken , not only by god , but also by europe , nor our important contribution to cooperating with development .
the challenge of enlargement is political .
the means of achieving this are difficult but they are real .
my group is especially attracted to the creative possibilities you signal in regard to the prospect of a white paper next spring addressing the issue of governance .
that could convince people that europe , in its governance , is not something run exclusively from brussels , which concentrates and soaks up more powers , more decisions , more authority .
for my group , enlargement is the first priority against which all the other possibilities for reform must be measured , be they governance , be they the intergovernmental conference , be they reform of the institutions .
the strategic paper emphasises the global role of the european union .
our central aim must be to give the union a weight in global affairs commensurate with its weight in terms of aid , trade and finance .
we need to open that debate .
madam president , mr president of the commission , i greatly admire the openness with which you admit that the european union must change fundamentally .
do please raise this issue at the intergovernmental conference .
in this respect , parliament will definitely defend , along with yourselves , the importance of supranational decision-making .
you must embark on a dialogue with the international community .
the european union could be critically important in a process in which the united nations and the wto really do become subject to democratic monitoring .
madam president , my group was one of those which wanted to have a document allowing an exchange of views on the commission ' s strategic objectives within the group before this debate , instead of being reduced to an on-the-spot reaction in plenary .
a more balanced and more rigorous diagnosis would be welcome in my view .
for example , at least in the countries which i know well , i doubt that the intention , repeated three or four times in the commission document , to reform ' europe ' s social protection , health care and pension systems ... in a climate of more cautious public spending ' will meet the needs of those whose confidence we apparently want to win back .
this is a starting point and we have five years to succeed , provided that the political will exists and is expressed with sufficient force and clarity .
we await the white paper on the governance of the european union dealing with the issue of balance between member states ' governments and the european union institutions which is to be published this summer .
on this specific point i think it is important that we address the reform of the internal decision-making procedures of the commission .
this is a scenario whereby the european union has a membership of over 25 member states .
i believe this would fly in the face of the spirit and objective of the treaty of rome and all subsequent treaties .
i would like to remind those who seek to eliminate the right of small member states to nominate a european commissioner that the united states of america gives smaller states the same recognition as larger states in the united states senate .
more or less each of the 50 states in the us has two elected positions in the united states senate , regardless of its population .
it would be very difficult for those who propose a ' yes ' vote in any such future treaty to win the support of the irish people if we lose our right to have our nominee to the european commission .
undoubtedly , reform of the european council is also going to be included in this white paper on the governance of the european union which will be published this summer .
i do not believe that there is broad support in europe for the introduction of qualified majority voting on taxation , justice and home affairs , and foreign affairs at european union level .
at present , under article 99 of the treaty of rome , decisions taken at eu level concerning tax changes must be by unanimity .
i support the enlargement of the european union .
i support institutional changes so as to ensure that enlargement of the union takes place in a streamlined and structured manner .
president of the commission , a short while ago you said that no political structure sets out five-year plans .
there was only one point that you really stressed - too much in my opinion - and that was that it looks almost as if the highest priority task that you are setting yourself is to cease " unnecessary " activities .
we should be careful , though , mr prodi , because we had a crisis of confidence in the previous commission and backed this commission - at least a parliamentary majority backed this commission - precisely because , first and foremost , the reform of the commission would bring consolidation , a new identity and a new awareness of being guided by a firm hand .
it seems that you are proposing the same old menu , but with more unsatisfactory implications , restricting the commission , so you say , to the task of drawing up a few white papers , as you proposed .
the same goes for enlargement as an end in itself , without it being linked to a reform to make the european union and its structures much more efficient , and to proposals that the commission could have made at the igc .
madam president , mr prodi , i should like to applaud your proposal for a radical decentralisation of the union ' s activities and ask why , then , you are proposing a legislative programme which would lead to centralisation .
madam president , this morning the commission president , mr prodi , has set out ambitious goals for the european union for the next five years , laudable aims indeed , to make a strong and effective european presence felt in the world : succeeding with enlargement , meeting the challenge of selling e-europe , introducing better principles of governance .
but how are we to succeed when the resources available are limited and the credibility of our institutions is not very high ?
here there are three elements i would like to contribute .
we must not fear globalisation , but we must also make sure that we understand its political impact in the network society .
we will be looking at this closely when we come to the annual programmes of proposed legislation .
we must establish priorities and make sure there is value for money in each of these programmes .
lastly , we need to ensure that there is proper , genuine reform of the european commission .
yes , the commission - guardian of the treaties - is meant to be an independent body , but it also has to be accountable to european citizens through our parliament .
the commission does not reflect the majority in this particular parliament .
we in parliament have a major role to play in the shaping of governance in europe .
this governance therefore needs to be a sensitive governance so that we can actually work together and understand that each of the institutions in the european union , has its relevant role to play .
madam president , mr president of the commission , numerous steps have been taken in the past to strengthen the european union , from the euro to resolutions on a common security policy ; even to the response by the 14 , the commission and parliament to the new coalition in austria .
the union professes its faith in its fundamental values in the treaty of amsterdam and the institutions of the eu confirmed this faith once again when the new coalition was formed in austria .
however , the full potential of these values will only be realised if they are set out in comprehensive detail in and form part of the treaty and , in the final analysis , represent legal claims on the part of individual citizens .
in this sense , the commission must insist on building up the common area of freedom , security and justice and in this sense i disagree with the last two speakers .
we are in the process of building a house but too few of our citizens really feel at home in our house .
that , as you have said yourself today , means that you must also identify tasks , policies and programmes which are peripheral or irrelevant to the commission 's main vocation .
many existing european union policies and programmes may simply have passed their sell-by date , or have been proved unwieldy or ineffective when administered at european level .
if we are to succeed in persuading a sceptical european public of the merits of further european integration , we must be able to demonstrate that we are as active in the devolution of unwarranted eu powers as we are in the evolution of new eu powers .
it must be shown to be a two-way process in which existing eu policies and programmes , which are not clearly justified on the grounds of subsidiarity and proportionality , are devolved and repealed .
madam president , mr prodi , i fully support the thinking of the proposals made by my colleague , mrs hautala , on the commission ' s strategic objectives for the coming five years .
rather , i want to start by welcoming certain proposals which you have made in this programme for 2000 .
the commission should react quickly in this respect .
for example , in the social area , it is not enough to announce a communication on a programme of social action .
on the environment , you have announced a proposal for a decision on a sixth action programme on the environment .
the commission has a role both within the eu and throughout the world .
madam president , you spoke about fundamental political values , and one of the fundamental political values , even more important than democracy , is respect for others .
we therefore need resources available to spend before proceeding to enlargement , so that we can at last establish a european monitoring body responsible for monitoring quality of life and living conditions , with the aim of creating a new world where such tragedies will no longer occur .
we live in a world of rules and regulations : let us regulate the internet too and give our fellow citizens rules and hope for the future .
madam president , mr president of the commission , members of the commission , five months after its coming into office , the commission committed to paper the direction in which it aims to steer the european union .
moreover , europe as a continent is a great deal more than just the fifteen eu member states .
you stated that the new european government requires strong institutions , while the commission wants to focus at the same time on its core tasks .
in the tradition of our continent , this realisation is an important one which merits recognition .
the european commission will need to play an important director ' s role in this , provided that clear and attainable objectives are in place .
clear priorities , focus , and , above all , communication with society to inform them of what we are up to , are the key goals .
but then i wonder : if there is talk of a real common policy , of a system of crisis prevention and crisis control at community level , where are the actual proposals then ?
indeed , at the end of the day , we need these in order to verify whether we can realise our objectives in this area .
madam president , words are essential , but we can only judge the commission on its merits .
secondly , the new " in " word is flexibility .
however , increasing flexibility can or quickly threatens to turn into intergovernmentalisation .
it is too high a price , not only for the member states already in the union but also for the states which want to join the union .
that goes far beyond your new economic and social agenda or a new , better quality of life .
the commission must carry on negotiations that are a decisive attempt to have each applicant country join the union as soon as possible .
madam president , mr president of the commission , commissioners , your inspiring speech , mr prodi , has quite won me over .
it raises expectations , but it can also lead to disappointment .
regions which , culturally and economically , sometimes match the interest of some member states .
the new europe should not only expand horizontally , but also vertically , by living by our values in practice and by developing a democratic structure of a real community .
so , in the first part on the new forms of european governance , the words ' federalism ' and ' superstate ' are not mentioned at all .
these ambiguities mask many misunderstandings , primarily about our values .
in the union for a europe of nations group our principles are rather different .
clearly we want to defend the countries of europe but we also want to respect the autonomy of nations .
madam president , mr prodi , you claim to be shaping a new europe yet you are lacking one basic element : confidence .
yet at the same time you are supporting communist china and trading with countries which have openly violated human rights for decades .
you will cynically and hypocritically use austria as a convenient threat to further strip the member states of any real powers in the construction of the european union .
your commissioners are clearly not solely responsible for this .
the governments which , through spinelessness or ideology , support you are also responsible .
the archbishop of milan , monsignor carlo maria martini , is calling upon all politicians , in particular those like you and me , president prodi , for whom the cultural and historic principle behind their presence in politics is the principle of the active involvement of catholics in politics , to reconsider a development process , which , in addition to economic profit , takes the marginalised and those left behind by society very much into account .
the fundamental element for the development of each person - his freedom , which comes before economic gain - is thus enhanced .
this social freedom , which becomes manifest in initiatives favouring the poor , gives excellent results in terms of social justice and stability .
madam president , president of the commission , this is a vital document for the future and fate of europe .
however , out of all the points , two specifically require our attention , and they are closely linked : peace and stability within europe and outside europe .
for some time , we have all agreed on this notion , but we must also clearly affirm that these objectives will not be achieved without enlargement , even if this comes at a price .
these goals will be more easily obtainable only if the intergovernmental conference , which will draw to a close within the year , results in constitutional reform , providing the commission with real and adequate powers so that it will no longer merely implement council decisions or parliament ' s codecisions but will have to perform the role of a real european government .
in essence this means applying the principle of subsidiarity .
precise application of this principle can only reinforce the actions taken and give our citizens a clear view of each level of competence .
in 1998 , 123 referrals were made to the court of justice for non-application or non-transposition and 25 % of environmental directives were not applied or transposed .
recent events have shown us that these regulations are essential .
you have not highlighted the ageing of our population which will fundamentally alter the structure of our society , not only economically but also in terms of public health .
finally , you do highlight european research as being at the heart of our future .
madam president , we can only endorse the general guidelines of the five-year programme and of the programme for 2000 , set out with so much enthusiasm by president prodi this morning .
in the two documents , strong emphasis is placed on the need to define new forms of european governance and , to this end , to introduce a new agenda for the commission , establishing more stringent priorities in the pursuit of the goal of full employment , through more efficient coordination of the economic and social policies of the states , and , primarily - allow me to stress this - of the nations that have joined the monetary union and which must be enabled to become the first example of closer cooperation .
to this end , i shall confine myself to stressing , out of all the choices available , the importance of three priority decisions which should , in the drawing-up of action programmes for the government of the union , be the basis for both the commission ' s agenda and the actions of the european union in the coming months .
secondly , the approval of investments - where the parameters are binding when drawing up action programmes on employment - to be made in individual countries via community projects in the priority sectors of research , innovation and training .
i feel that these parameters - particularly those of a qualitative nature , resulting from investments in continuous training , refresher courses , adaptability and retraining of older workers - are considerably more significant and binding owing to their lasting effects over the medium term than the simple drawing up of annual quantitative objectives , that are always debatable , regarding new employment or employment cuts .
you say that you will not hesitate to come to this house to request more resources for the commission , but the commission must be aware that we are walking on thin financial ice .
madam president , the commission communication is well written but sufficiently vague to allow any interpretation whatsoever .
we socialists applaud the commission for wanting to fight against social exclusion and poverty .
everyone knows that quality of life and full and better employment depend on sustainable economic growth .
the union is currently restricted to a policy of stability which is certainly necessary but insufficient .
in the world of new technologies , the main danger remains that access to information will be easier the richer you are .
the gulfs which are opening up everywhere are the main problem for our era .
to conclude , the next five years will be crucial .
madam president , mr president of the commission , commissioners , in my view , this strategy paper has two clear weaknesses .
that makes sense from an economic and an ecological point of view .
our citizens cannot understand that we are deregulating air traffic , but leaving 15 different sectors in the skies which are under national control , which have an adverse economic impact on the airlines and which pollute the environment .
commissioner , far too little is said in your paper about regional policy .
if we fail to complete it , citizens in less favoured regions will dread enlargement .
madam president , mr president of the commission , commissioners , the fact that we are formulating new programmes does not mean that we should neglect those older programmes which are at implementation stage .
the agenda 2000 issues are , of course , ones that relate to your third and fourth strategic objectives , the economic and social agenda and a better quality of life .
this is because it is essential to achieve two things : the european model of multifunctionality in agriculture must be secured , and this must be done in a way which facilitates the liberalisation of world trade in agricultural products , mainly to the benefit of developing countries .
as for fishing , there is nothing in your programme to tell us that the predatory exploitation of fishing grounds , which has gone as far as to wipe out entire species of fish , will certainly prove fruitful in the future .
madam president , mr prodi , ladies and gentlemen , at the time of our vote on your appointment we invited you to come here today .
the interlinking of the eu institutions , the responsibilities of the member states and the local and regional authorities is all very well .
our people expect more europe , but not just any europe .
they are expecting us not to fall in with globalisation but rather , on the basis of our social model , to be able to organise globalisation .
in this respect i must say that , in terms of your commitment to a political union , to which we are favourable , this cannot be achieved unless it is based on our social model , on our originality and our capacity to better regulate the business of this world .
madam president , mr president of the commission , commissioners , i should like to start with a quote : " the commission will continue to work towards establishing a european charter of fundamental rights and draw up proposals to bring about an ambitious programme .
we here in parliament want to hold a serious discussion about the future development in this policy area on the basis of a programme .
madam president , i would also like to welcome the commission ' s initiative of presenting us with a report on its strategic objectives for the next five years , although i hope that it intends , in subsequent documents , to avoid the excess of generalisations and the vagueness of the text which we are examining today .
it is really surprising that the commission does not treat the revision of one of its common policies as a strategic objective for the coming years , in view of the reform which must take place in 2002 .
there is no doubt whatsoever that this revision process will be the most important thing to affect the fishing industry for many years .
however , it seems that the commission does not share this view , although it is the commission which is obliged to present the council and parliament with a report on the functioning of the common fisheries policy over the last decade before the end of 2001 , and it is on this basis that the council will have to make the appropriate decisions with regard to its modification .
in fact , the revision process has already begun for many bodies and institutions , such as the european parliament , which in 1998 already issued and adopted a report pointing out all the current problems and deficiencies of the common fisheries policy .
less than two years is not much time if we bear in mind also that the fishing policy is anomalous with regard to the internal market regulations and that such anomalies should be resolved within the framework of this reform process .
madam president , i should like to add my congratulations to commissioner prodi 's programme .
full employment is the best way to generate social justice for our citizens .
yes , e-europe will be the future for us because it will help us create new prosperity and new jobs .
i welcome the commission initiatives now and in the past to support our small and medium-sized enterprises and i would like to congratulate our portuguese presidency for its initiative on having a charter for micro-businesses .
there is still more we have to do , and the lisbon summit will become part of that .
madam president , mr president of the commission , i should like to focus on two points which are not mentioned in your programme .
i am talking about the integration of the policies of the culture industry in this area of training and culture ; they create jobs .
you say in your five-year programme that the people of the european union rightly expect food standards to be higher and better foodstuffs legislation .
i feel duty bound to publicly denounce the fact that fishing is absent from the programme which you have presented to us .
not a single line , nor a single word , refers to fishing or the cfp .
you have made an explicit reference to the cap for the coming years , but you have not done so for the cfp , with regard to the double adaptation of the internal market which is necessary to prevent exceptions - as has already been said - and in a global context , in the context of globalisation .
this house has expressed its opinion on the first issue and it will also do so on the second .
on behalf of the socialist group , i would like to focus on the point of internal reform .
at the same time , we are aware that this is a massive programme and that , during the overhaul in the next couple of years , it will be necessary to keep the actual results coming in , as before .
this can be prevented if a european social model is drawn up and if results are achieved in all these concrete areas .
because this citizen - one in five globally - still has no access to elementary social provisions , such as education and health care .
madam president , mr president of the commission , i have read and re-read the commission ' s document setting out the strategic objectives for its term in office .
we should take into consideration the sixth periodic report on the situation of the regions in the european union , for which the commission is responsible .
this report confirms that whereas an average level of development is given a rating of 100 , the ten so-called " strongest " regions reached an average of 158 , and the ten so-called " weakest " regions reached a figure of around 50 .
i am waiting for the commission ' s report on the ultra-peripheral regions , which the council decided should be drawn up by december 1999 .
firstly , mr president , although your two predecessors concentrated on developing an internal market and establishing the single currency , it has been left to you to develop this whole value of citizenship which is at the heart of european construction .
your action programme and your objectives are reserved , even silent , specifically on the stimulation of public investment which is needed .
this is an absolute priority if you are to reconcile europe with the people and ensure that the people choose europe rather than jorg haider .
the recent dioxin scare in belgium , prior to that the bse crisis in britain , and the continuing controversy over the safety of genetically-modified foods , have all contributed to undermining consumer confidence in the safety of the food they eat .
if the commission can indeed restore confidence in the food production chain it will simultaneously restore confidence in the european union institutions themselves and demonstrate their ability to protect the rights of eu citizens .
i therefore welcome the fact that the issue of food safety , public health and consumer confidence features prominently in the commission 's work programme for 2000 .
however , i was disappointed with the nature of the proposal for the establishment of a european food authority in the recent white paper .
furthermore , future legislation must address the modus operandi of the relationship between the european food authority and the authorities of national member states , for example the food safety authority in ireland .
this body , for example , alongside the recently established cross-border body in ireland for food safety , is already doing good work .
we will be looking for the detail year by year , for example in the social action programme to be unveiled this year .
within the social dimension we will be looking for a deepening of the internal market with a social aspect .
mr prodi , you set great store in your reform efforts on introducing a forward-looking employment policy throughout europe .
we must reduce protective tariffs in order to safeguard effective capacity utilisation in undertakings in the processing industry .
however , i am sure that i do not need to remind you of the importance of a branch of the economy which is both an economic and a social factor , which affects not only germany but all the coastal regions of europe .
madam president , many of the speakers from the socialist group have already identified key areas where there are gaps in the commission ' s statement .
one area that i want to focus on , in addition to those already identified , is that of cultural diversity in europe .
but there is nothing in the statement which indicates that the commission intends to take any steps to deal with the issue of cultural diversity .
if we are to ensure that we defeat the fear-mongers amongst us - those seeking power on the backs of anxious citizens - then we must seriously address the question of how we can live together and how we can dismantle the negative stereotypes that we have of each other , both within the present european union and among those who seek to join us and , indeed , among those in other parts of europe and the world who want to come and live and work in europe .
it has been a calm debate with broad agreement over the basic points , but also where there has been a marked reassertion of parliament ' s rights and of the need for cooperation and dialogue between parliament , the commission and the council .
it has been a constructive debate for europe .
mrs hautala , i think you were almost right in saying this , because it is indeed a political manifesto .
cast your minds back - i recall this because it took place in this very chamber - to the speech given by the president of the french republic on the issues of reinforced cooperation which reopened a dialogue that appeared closed prior to this .
i hope that globalisation will continue to have this positive aspect in the future , but - and this is going to be one of our major commitments in the future - it leads to problems in poor countries and in our countries , problems that we must address .
and it also leads to problems in the weakest sectors of our countries .
clearly , when our young graduates notice differences in salaries , small or large depending on the type of employment they are in , and when the financial sector pays wages that are x number of times higher than someone working in research , for example , all of this creates problems relating to the organisation of our future society .
i started to respond in lisbon , by attempting to reduce the marginalisation of an entire age group , that is , to provide all the young people of europe with new instruments for communication , broadly reunite all the european schools and create new opportunities to prevent geographical and social marginalisation in europe .
too often , subsidiarity has been lauded in theory but has not been understood in practice .
we must give subsidiarity a material body and a political soul : this is the aim of the white paper , which must put value back into europe and recommend what practical action to undertake .
let us remember how often we have been made into a laughing-stock because we deal with things that are absolutely ridiculous , which defy common sense and conflict with the interests of our population .
regarding this matter and this transformation , the commission can and must be a real leader , relieved of useless burdens , given more credibility because it takes tangible form in its " core business " and because it does not make requests but instead rejects unnecessary tasks and powers .
the commission must become a driving force .
we have done the same thing in the white paper regarding the food sector .
just as enlargement is a difficult challenge , this is too because it has never before been attempted .
at the time of the actual decision , here , we shall all have to be united in order to demonstrate that enlargement is in the interests of peace , prosperity and is taking place by way of a guarantee , as i said before , for our people , in addition to a guarantee for the countries which are attempting to enlarge .
i have just been to lithuania , slovakia and romania , three countries where we have had to request nuclear power stations to be closed .
if we do not act in these sectors of civilisation , it will be impossible for africa to act .
i did not mention it because i believe that the five-year programme must set out the major policy lines regarding general development , but i am convinced of its enormous importance for cohesion and european solidarity .
it is precisely with these essential functions , with which we must ensure respect for our irreplaceable , political and moral role at europe ' s helm , that the commission must strive to show the advantages and costs of our policies and to be very clear for a population that asks us for clarity , that asks us to be absolutely transparent .
it reassures me because i have perceived a broad consensus on the basic lines of our programme and because i have the impression that its true substance has been understood .
it emerged clearly , but forcefully that the challenges before us are the great political challenges that we must tackle together .
this makes close collaboration between parliament and the commission even more important .
in any case , this debate has further convinced me that the major challenges that lie ahead are political challenges .
and mr baron crespo , we cannot forget that the five-year programme was unable to exert any practical influence in the world ; it disappeared from political manifestos when siena 's role in the world weakened .
mr president , first of all let me say that i am in full support of a statute for assistants .
yesterday when i arrived in parliament i was handed a document relating to a proposed demonstration by the assistants outside the doors of parliament .
as all colleagues will know - and many of you have approached me over the last six months - all exhibitions and such like are filtered first of all through the comart committee of parliament .
following a letter i received yesterday , i immediately informed the assistants that we would propose that they be allowed to hold a meeting or demonstration , probably in the near future and possibly in the next month .
but all exhibitions must be carried out in a way that do not interfere with the orderly running of parliament .
but all exhibitions are in fact looked at first by the so-called comart committee .
thank you , mrs banotti .
the combination of these two positions makes for a mixture which could be disastrous for the future for europe .
i counted no less than seven calls in the resolution , at different points , for equal rights for european citizens and legal immigrants .
this has become a real obsession .
finally , the european parliament calls for a review of immigration policy in view of the population situation .
for these areas , the intergovernmental conference must devise new cooperation procedures based on the political role of the council and interparliamentary control exercised by the national parliaments .
however , we have voted against paragraphs 2 and 6 , because they seem to us to be legally incorrect .
on the other hand , we have voted in favour of recital j which , in fact , is in line with what i , as draftsperson of the opinion of the committee on citizens ' freedoms , proposed to that committee , with a view to the intergovernmental conference .
for similar reasons , we have voted in favour of paragraph 14 which , with the oral amendment , dealt with certain very justifiable concerns about the question of subsidiarity , since political rights , not just voting in local elections , but political rights in general terms , form part of the sovereignty of member states .
the europe of schengen clearly finds it much easier to hound the persecuted from the south than dictators , even though the un estimates that we will need 159 million immigrants to maintain a stable population between now and the year 2025 .
mccarthy report ( a5-0026 / 2000 ) mr president , i would firstly like to point out that i was mayor of bilbao during the nineties , which gave me the opportunity to present one of the first urban pilot projects to be subsidised by the commission .
thirdly , we have to bear in mind the synergies generated by other community programmes , as well as the opportunities for sustainable development in the location or region in question .
lastly , in today ' s vote on our four amendments , two have been approved and the other two rejected .
this has obliged us to abstain from the final vote , because we do not understand how we can ignore the environmental question when deciding which projects must be financed and we do not understand how we can reject the idea that each member state can dedicate , to urban projects , that portion of the structural funds which it has not spent in accordance with community programmes .
mr president , i would like to point out that i voted for this report on sustainable urban development , known as urban .
as with all other community initiatives , this is very positive .
there can be no worse situation than that of an elderly person living in a city .
at a forthcoming review of these programmes , it ought to be established that the eu ' s efforts are to be concentrated upon cross-border tasks and adapted to the possible enlargement of the eu . . ( da ) we have voted in favour of the report on the communication from the commission concerning the guidelines for a community initiative relating to the economic and social regeneration of cities and neighbourhoods in crisis and designed to promote sustainable development ( urban ) .
with some 80 % of the population of europe living in an urban area , cities are at the forefront of economic , social and cultural change in europe .
at the same time , the social and economic problems facing european society are more pronounced in urban areas .
the concentration of economic and social problems in certain urban areas calls for targeted intervention taking full account of the complexity of the problems involved .
this is why the european parliament successfully called for the urban community initiative or cip to be extended during the reform of the structural funds .
the success of urban during the 1994-1999 programming period is indisputable .
the results are clear in terms of the improvement of the quality of life in the target areas .
the new initiative will continue to pursue these goals by reinforcing them , while particularly promoting equal opportunities between men and women and integrating socially marginalised and disadvantaged groups .
this reduction in funding has led to a reduction in the number of programmes in the new urban initiative .
so far , portugal has had six projects financed , on behalf of the municipal authorities of oporto , gondomar , lisbon , odivelas , oeiras and amadora .
although we welcome the determination to create a system of exchanges between successful enterprises , the problems specific to each urban area cannot be dealt with in the same way .
the urban community initiative is helping to achieve the european union ' s desire to communitise urban policy .
it would be more appropriate for the eu to concentrate its financial efforts on pre-existing european policies .
finally , the report specifically highlights actions in favour of ethnic or sociological minorities .
decourriere report ( a5-0028 / 2000 ) mr president , the interreg programme is particularly close to our hearts .
the answer is quite simply because the projects currently being submitted are still too often damaging to the environment due to the way they are submitted .
we know that some member states are still wavering , for example , between rail and road for routes through vulnerable areas such as the pyrenees , as in the aspe valley .
however , i am also thinking of my own region where my government is still debating whether to route the railway or to build a second motorway , the a32 .
in this respect too , i would ask the commission to be particularly attentive about ensuring that there is real cohesion between the various policies , specifically in the interreg programmes which are being submitted .
this is why the interreg community initiative was launched in 1990 .
this programme was designed to encourage cross-border , transnational and interregional cooperation and to promote balanced development of the community territory in order to enhance economic and social cohesion in the union .
i must stress that interregional cooperation significantly encourages the involvement of local and regional authorities in the process of european integration .
more active participation by these authorities in community initiatives should be promoted , bearing in mind that in many cases they have a very limited capacity for cooperation because of the different legal frameworks and different levels of development on either side of the border .
in the same respect , given that structural unemployment is responsible for 50 % of all unemployment , the interreg funds made available must be sufficient to supplement national measures promoting employment .
i hope that the projects included within the programmes can help to provide solutions to these problems and to implement in practical terms the principle of free movement of workers which is in a bad way in my region !
interreg resources must also contribute to the development of a european research area .
between 1994 and 1999 , our regions annually received an average of ff 15.4 billion but will receive only ff 14.7 billion between 2000 and 2006 .
my region of nord-pas-de-calais will be particularly affected with french hainaut losing the aid paid to objective 1 regions .
this loss is unjustified in a region whose main activities have been ruined by free-trade europe .
the european regional policy also reinforces the centralism of brussels with which the regional authorities are invited to negotiate directly on the use of the structural funds .
the interreg initiative , launched in 1990 to prepare the border regions for a europe without borders and therefore without nations , sits comfortably within this philosophy .
i want to defend an amendment tabled by my group on the maritime aspect of this community initiative .
this does not involve the concerns about the future of the atlantic arc but rather the need to integrate the principle of maritime borders into strand a on cross-border cooperation .
in the commission guidelines , few maritime areas are eligible for interreg iiia .
interreg iii , strand a , would allow the regions in this area to advance a number of structural projects needed to develop small and medium-sized undertakings and to promote research and technical development through knowledge transfer .
the european commission should therefore be able to participate in the construction of port and airport infrastructure to provide links between regions .
this policy would have important economic consequences for the fishing industry in brittany in that catches could be unloaded at irish advance bases in order to then be transported to the breton agri-foodstuffs industry .
the integration of the maritime border into strand a would finally allow the western periphery to be recognised as a unique and important economic area which is confronted by the ' continentalisation ' of the european union .
we therefore must not leave it out of innovative and pilot community programmes which will allow the new geographical and economic map of europe to be defined . . ( da ) the european project began as a partnership between states .
the eu should be prepared to meet that competition .
it should not be about greater integration of the eu countries in the form of a federation but about using our economic potential across national borders .
nonetheless , the french delegation in our group was unable to accept the fact that the commission and the federalist faction have diverted the interreg initiative from its original purpose in order to detract still further from the political role of the nations .
we have no intention of giving brussels the job of regulating regional planning in the member states , as suggested in recital of the report .
we are therefore unable to approve the development of strand iiic of the community initiative encouraging interregional cooperation under the responsibility of the commission and sidelining the member states .
this infatuation with strand iiic is all the stranger in that the rapporteur himself acknowledges in his explanatory statement that ' the draft guidelines do not provide any indication of possible fields of co-operation ' ( p.17 ) and that ' the responsibilities are diffuse and vague ' ( p.18 ) .
calling under these circumstances , as he does in paragraph 20 , for the budget for this strand to be increased is another example of the irresponsible and ideological outbidding tactics which are customary in this house .
it is up to washington , not us , to assume responsibility for a conflict which was triggered merely to serve its interests .
the french delegation in our group is therefore unable to support the decourriere report and will choose to abstain during the final vote .
procacci report ( a5-0025 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the procacci report on rural development , not only because i endorse the major policy lines of the leader programme , but also because it complements the urban programme , which i spoke about earlier .
i therefore believe that it is very important for everyone to back this european union plan and for it to be further developed .
however , first i should like to take this opportunity to express my full support for the focal points of the commission ' s new programme .
that applies in particular to the integrated , multisectoral approach which is gaining ground in the agricultural sector and which is highlighted time and again by national agricultural ministers in the member states .
and greater emphasis on environmental protection in connection with rural areas in general is extremely important for the future of all of us .
our position on leader is a product of our more general assessment of the eu ' s overall agricultural policy .
both leader 1 and leader 2 , which were implemented in the 1990s , were ingredients of the new cap that emerged after its review in 1992 and , along with other respective measures , they constituted the so-termed second pillar of the eu ' s rural development policy .
the present cap , however , is worse than its predecessor and it also starts from a worse basis , granted that the 1992 cap review and the gatt agreement in 1995 have created serious problems and impasses for the agricultural economy .
in no case , however , are they programmes for the integrated development of the selected areas and they do not create permanent jobs in the countryside because most of the activities there are not productive in nature .
the actual appropriations available for leader + compared with leader 2 are smaller despite their increase by 15 % ( from eur 1 775 million for leader 2 to eur 2 020 million for leader + ) .
this is because the 15 % increase is nominal and not real , granted that average yearly inflation in the community during those years was approximately 2 % .
however , we amended the draft report adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development in order to clarify certain points which will make this community initiative more effective .
it was also essential to ensure that better account is taken of the development priorities of local operators and that the benefit of leader + funds is not limited solely to agricultural regions with a low population density .
amendment no 10 which i tabled on behalf of my group refers to the concept of ' economic and social cohesion ' rather than ' regional development ' as the european union does not have any recognised competence in this area .
amendment no 11 replaces ' government or municipal officials ' with ' government officials ' .
it specifies the necessary coordination between leader + and community cooperation and partnership programmes such as interreg , phare , sapard or meda .
in the territory of member states of the european union , applicant countries or member states of efta , there may be interrelations between the various community initiatives .
in essence , we are , of course , in favour of this leader + community initiative .
the conference on rural development held in cork from 7 to 9 november 1996 set rural development as one of the european union ' s priorities since it is essential to preserve the integrity of our agriculture and the whole rural fabric , including infrastructure , public and private services and so on .
in this context , in committee we regretted the paltry funding allotted to rural development and supported the amendments calling for an increased budget for this community initiative so that it matches the previous leader i and leader ii initiatives .
this is unacceptable given the importance of rural development and the consequences for farmers of the fall in prices and aid specified in the reform of the cap following the berlin agreements .
as far as we in the committee on agriculture and rural development are concerned , so far so good .
we asked the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , which pointed out that , as far as approximating laws is concerned , article 37 is adequate in this case .
we negotiated with the commission for two years on the seed directive and came to a compromise regulating the release of genetically-modified organisms in the directive , taking the text on which directive 70 / 524 is based as a starting point .
the commission pointed out in committee that it plans to present a novel feed directive in the future .
we are therefore assuming that you will accept our proposed amendment with regard to genetically-modified organisms .
directive 70 / 524 still contains the old text because the seed directive was submitted to parliament in 1986 and we then negotiated with the commission until 1988 , while the report on this directive was dealt with in 1994 and parliament obviously did not accord genetically-modified organisms the same importance then as it did later when i was rapporteur .
we therefore assume , commissioner byrne , that you too will accept our proposed amendment of the legal base .
mr president , commissioner , does regulating additives in feedingstuffs come under competition or consumer policy ?
food safety must take absolute priority over feedingstuffs in all our discussions .
mr president , this proposal to amend the 1970 directive on additives in feedingstuffs is the first in a whole series of proposals on the subject of feedingstuffs .
however , the committee on agriculture and rural development has voted unanimously on some important amendments to the commission proposal .
it is therefore only logical that we make provision for genetically modified feedingstuff additives in this case , just as we have in regulations already passed in other areas , such as forest reproductive material , to mention just one example .
however , there is another environmental principle at stake , namely the exchange principle .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the report on additives in animal feedingstuffs concerns the technical and economic problem of restoring the competitive balance between different additives in feedingstuffs and between producers of these additives .
yet after the serious dioxin crisis which affected belgium and other european countries last summer we cannot just view this issue in terms of competition .
in any case , the precautionary principle requires these products to be clearly traceable at all stages of their marketing .
also , amendments nos 4 and 5 to the new article 2a must be approved as these will ensure that genetically modified additives are clearly identified as such , thus allowing users to make fully informed decisions .
mr president , because of the availability of high-technology additives in the feedingstuffs industry , detailed information on their use is needed from the actors , and as we know there are a lot of them , so that we can put a stop to practices which infringe community law .
this directive on additives in feedingstuffs cannot achieve this on its own .
it reflects the views and concerns of all eu citizens in the area of food safety and quality .
the events of the past couple of years have certainly created an awareness and concern about the real threat to food safety and public health .
the swift action taken by this parliament must be seen by all citizens as their greatest guarantee for the future , for you have set an agenda on food quality to which member states must conform .
but even in this crucial area of administration , parliament reflects its commitment to subsidiarity by encouraging member states to take on and to face up to their responsibility .
in agenda 2000 , we have in my view prioritised policies that are of direct concern to citizens : food safety , water quality , environmental protection and rural development .
i compliment the new commissioner responsible for food safety , mr byrne .
i am particularly pleased that my own country , ireland , is to the forefront in the implementation of new food regulations based on the principle of traceability .
a coherent legal framework must be re-established .
i am sure that the commission can accept the report which , as you know , was approved unanimously in the committee on agriculture and rural development .
mr president , we have said in this house time and again since the bse crisis that feedingstuffs are one of the first and most important factors in safe food production and in consumer health and protection .
we therefore welcome the commission ' s proposal on additives in feedingstuffs .
the committee on behalf of which i am speaking , namely the committee on the environment , public health and consumer protection , decided in december , on the assumption that the chairman of the committee on agriculture would draft such a good report , that we could waive our opinion .
nevertheless , i should like to say a few words on the report and express a view on a number of points .
even if we have new rules of procedure in parliament , and it may well be that , with such an ambitious chairman in the committee on agriculture , problems of legislative competence will arise more and more frequently between the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment , one thing is always crystal clear for me in this sort of conflict : cohesion in this parliament is crucial and the legal basis of a question is crucial as far as i am concerned .
the treaty of amsterdam states quite clearly that , where people ' s health is concerned , article 152 is the correct legal base , and may i say to our own committee on legal affairs and the internal market that it is simply not good enough to look at the commission ' s proposal and say , there is nothing in it about health and consumer protection , so it has nothing to do with health and consumer protection .
mr byrne , i ask you to accept and agree to the change of legal basis for the sake of transparency and good cooperation .
what has happened in recent years has brought to our attention the tremendous problems facing not only to the producers of food but also the consumers .
we must resolve this issue , because it is important that consumers should regain confidence in the food they eat .
gmos are the new challenge facing us .
but i think we should not allow our concerns about gmos to overshadow our concerns about growth promoters used in animal feed or antibiotics used in compound feed .
one factor behind these developments that has been referred to in this debate is competition - competition between member states on the cost of the production of food .
the main problem is a financial one , namely who bears the cost ?
the commission proposal is , as some of you have said , rather technical .
the purpose of the commission 's proposal is to harmonise procedures to ensure that no such difference exists .
i would simply point out that the commission proposal makes no reference to health or consumer protection .
the proposed amendment is technical and cannot be interpreted as having as its primary objective the protection of public health .
i note that parliament 's committee on legal affairs and the internal market also accepts that article 37 is the appropriate legal base .
i remind parliament that in article 152 the primary objective is the protection of health .
amendments nos 2 and 3 go much further than the commission proposal since they aim to introduce additional provisions on genetically modified additives .
the commission is of the view that it is premature to amend the rules currently laid down by directive 70 / 524 on genetically modified additives at this stage .
instead it is appropriate to await developments in relation to the common position on the amendment to directive 90 / 220 , which is currently in second reading in parliament .
i can also assure parliament that i will ensure that the pertinent provisions of directive 90 / 220 are included in the proposal for a recasting of directive 70 / 524 that the commission has proposed in the white paper on food safety to present to parliament before july 2001 .
amendments nos 4 and 5 are also unacceptable because they give undue preference to copy products by granting them authorisation to be placed into circulation even before an application for authorisation has been submitted .
i can only ask you again to bear in mind the technical nature of the commission proposal and to wait for the substantive proposal for a new directive on additives in feedingstuffs to address wider issues .
first of all , this matter has been in the pipeline since 1993 , so it has not really been sprung on any other commodity producers .
as an overall comment to the suggested amendments here , particularly in relation to the legal base issue , it would be inappropriate , in my opinion , to change the legal base to article 152 in these circumstances , as it would be very likely to fall foul of the objective criteria that have been laid down by the court .
directive 70 / 524 foresees the issue of labelling in the genetic modification of additives .
commissioner byrne , it appears that you want to engage in a test of strength with parliament .
i would also say in relation to the questions surrounding labelling that this is a complex issue .
i would assure mr graefe zu baringdorf that it is by no means my intention or wish to have any clash or test of strength with parliament on this issue .
it is my intention , as it has always been , to work in cooperation with parliament , to ensure that the results we achieve are the very best results .
the best way of dealing with this issue is through the draft legislation before parliament at the moment , as well as the legislation in the pipeline , rather than in this technical document and in circumstances where the questions that are set out and to be debated in directive 90 / 220 may not be fully taken into account .
all of these matters will be addressed in that legislation .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
i am therefore in complete agreement with the commission ' s proposal on scrapie .
i should , however , like to add that it only makes sense if we ensure that the new tse regulation allows a reasonable symbiosis between consumer protection and practicable suggestions .
we therefore need to take consistent account of six or seven points in the coming debate on the tse proposal , and that of course includes scrapie .
when we discuss the tse regulation , commissioner , we must also clarify that we shortly intend to discuss separate proposals under article 152 as the corresponding legal base for products excluded from this regulation , such as cosmetics , medicinal products or animal feed .
i would be grateful , commissioner , if you would take these passing comments on board in the report on scrapie and in the general report on the fight against tses and bear in mind that we shall be calling you to account on these points .
my task as draftsman of the opinion of the environment committee is a very simple one .
i agree with the rapporteur and am able to say that the environment committee has asked the committee on agriculture and rural development to agree to the commission proposal .
i have yet to submit my report on tses to the house .
finally , just one more brief comment , mr byrne .
we have a new commission .
the european parliament has already taken a clear stand on bse and i think that we should do likewise on all epidemics in animals .
and i should point out that , for the first time in history , a case of scrapie was detected in austria about four weeks ago .
i therefore welcome the commission ' s initiative to create a new legal base for combating scrapie .
there is no doubt that mr boge and the rapporteur for the committee on the environment are now tremendous experts in this field .
it is very good that they are continuing to monitor this issue on behalf of parliament because it is extremely important .
it is quite clear that the incidence of scrapie in sheep has been a contributing factor to the overall problem .
i do not want to point the finger at any particular country , but many countries are now facing similar problems to those we have had in the united kingdom .
if we are not able to achieve that then we will have tremendous trouble in the future .
considerable progress has been made on our proposal for a european parliament and council regulation under article 152 of the treaty on the prevention and control of tses .
i am here today to listen to your opinions on the first step in this process of establishing a truly comprehensive community system for the control of these diseases .
i have proposed in the proposal at hand to delete all currently existing community rules on scrapie in sheep and goats and to transpose them to the framework proposal for a regulation .
i look forward to receipt of that document , which will be taken into account in all further considerations in relation to this issue .
finally , i would say this in relation to the observation about including legislation in annexes and the observation that we must achieve an effective balance between parliament having a full say and yet at the same time our having speedy resolutions , speedy legislation and speedy amendments to existing legislation .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
we will either be able to restore water quality to suit the planet ' s ecosystem or we will experience a whole range of adverse events which will threaten the development of certain regions , the living conditions of the inhabitants of other regions and even , more fundamentally , the global balance .
yet we also know that the deterioration of the oceans will significantly destabilise whole areas of our planet .
in this it said that in a few years ' time we must have stopped dumping pollution and halted the increase of pollution and we must have reached a near zero level of toxic and dangerous substances .
the european union ' s water policy is not starting from zero .
however , at first reading this house insisted that the current directive should not only be compatible with the commitments made , like ospar , but should allow us to reverse the course of affairs .
for despite these directives and frequent declarations about the effort which must be made in terms of water protection , when we look at the state of the environment in europe we can see that the objectives have not been achieved .
in many cases the situation has deteriorated and we therefore cannot settle for just rationalisation of the texts .
it is also clear that if we do nothing , our agriculture will continue to develop in a very unbalanced manner .
we have been working on this subject for ten years and a comprehensive approach was only made possible as the result of a hearing arranged and held by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy in 1994 .
we reduced the 243 proposed amendments in the environment committee to 77 , but another 30 have been added .
our line is to work towards realistic objectives and practicable solutions .
in this sense , the proposed amendments tabled by me and other members on behalf of the group represent an improvement on the demands set out in the common position .
i should like to stress quite particularly here that we have already made considerable progress under current national and european water protection laws , however imperfect they are and however little they are complied with in the member states .
the framework directive on water is a necessary initiative .
nevertheless , given that the idea of solidarity is central to the process of european construction , this directive must take into account the fact that water resources should be seen as a factor in social cohesion .
however , in spain and the other southern countries , which have an unusual climate , the management of water resources require political action in order to rationalise their use and other cooperative measures .
therefore , we believe that this framework directive should advocate a use of water which allows us to overcome territorial imbalances and , to this end , i ask that you support amendment no 95 , which has been presented by our group .
with regard to one of the most controversial points of our debate , the application of tariffs , the spanish socialists have been arguing , in accordance with the principle that the polluter should pay , that the directive should propose policies on accessible prices for all levels of consumption .
we want to build a europe with a sustainable and healthy environment .
however , an environmental europe cannot , in any circumstances , be built at different speeds , but must be built from a point of view of solidarity .
mr president , the ecological disaster in the danube reminds us of how closely linked all the countries of europe are and how important water is to us all .
it is important for us to remember that this is a framework .
it is easy for individual countries , for individual sectors of industry , to escape the effects which have been painted to us in recent days .
there are many opportunities to hide .
the reality is that the details of this legislation will be set out in daughter directives in months and years to come .
the principle also concerns water charging .
the common position has weakened the stand taken by parliament at first reading .
we have seen vote after vote lost .
our attempt to improve the environment of europe has failed .
the unanimity principle was at the root of this debacle .
some seven years ago , it still looked like the european water policy was going to be sacrificed on the altar of subsidiarity .
this is unusual , but most of these amendments are desperately needed to plug the holes .
the chemical industry and , unfortunately , the european commission and the council of ministers too want to draft a separate risk analysis for each dangerous substance .
this is very time-consuming , and , more importantly , there is no acceptable level of pollution for dangerous chemical substances .
this is why it is so important that the european parliament declares itself openly in favour of the ospar objective of close-to-zero by the year 2020 .
the chemical industry and society as a whole have to learn to replace these dangerous chemical substances by harmless substitutes , and if this is impossible , to apply them in closed systems .
the council 's common position is totally inadequate in a number of areas .
we therefore support the proposal to reduce the time allotted for implementing different parts of the directive .
however , some people in our political group think otherwise .
the recent disaster on the danube serves as a reminder that our rivers are the lifelines of our planet and that pollution does not respect borders .
we have therefore tabled amendments to highlight the importance of the special relationship between agriculture and water , given that water is an essential factor in the occupation and development of the land .
agricultural needs are clearly much greater in the south and this specific point must be taken into account in the framework directive .
however , we are in europe experiencing droughts and desertification in certain regions and also floods , which the directive underlines .
we need this framework directive as an essential element of a sustainable development policy which must make the various uses of water compatible with each other .
yet we also need to integrate the protection and conservation of biodiversity into this new management of water .
the committee on the environment ' s present proposal to reduce discharges to close-to-zero is , in my view , to be welcomed and worthy of emulation .
we need to rethink and recognise that water is our most important asset and that our responsibility towards it goes far beyond the present generation .
mr president , it must be some six years ago now that mr karl-heinz florenz , assisted by mrs ursula schleicher , put in a request and managed to overhaul the water policy in its entirety .
the decision-making process concerning this framework directive on water has reached a crucial stage .
the topic has been brought under the codecision procedure and as a result , we have been able to draft important , more stringent legislation as early on as at first reading .
a very important component , to wit , one third of our drinking water , is extracted from surface water in the netherlands .
the netherlands is located downstream , in a delta , which means that the quality of the surface water which heads our way is of key importance .
everyone should have clean water at their disposal but the availability and good quality of water is not so self-evident , as many have experienced in southern europe and are experiencing now in the danube countries too .
water is often a source of conflict between countries and peoples .
too little operational capacity upstream or , in fact , excessive use , can cause problems downstream .
the problem of water is becoming increasingly topical .
in march , the second world water forum will be held in the hague .
this vision must translate into regional action plans for sustainable water management and water control .
the european parliament must now opt for a sustainable water policy as a starting point and remain realistic at the same time .
the common position is not ambitious enough .
the ospar objectives are now being drawn up .
a list has been compiled , containing 400 substances which produce clear risks for the environment .
quality has a price , but pollution could well have a much higher price tag in future .
mr president , commissioner , my compliments to mrs lienemann on her excellent work on the water directive .
ladies and gentlemen , the proposal for a directive does indeed , as many speakers have already said , represent an historic chance to simplify and improve the jumble of piecemeal eu regulations and directives and achieve a high level of environmental protection in europe .
however , i have the impression that the policy in the water framework directive is geared towards deregulation and renationalisation .
we know that the commission proposal does not go far enough ; unfortunately this also applies to the proposal by the committee on the environment .
but i think that this is exactly what we have to make up for here in parliament , in order to demonstrate that we will not allow the credibility of our policy to be lost or compromised .
mr president , in the small amount of time allotted to me , i would like to welcome the mrs lienemann ' s report and remind the house of three principles , to which all other principles must be subordinate , which are clearly expressed in the rapporteur ' s amendments : water is not a commercial product , but the property of all the peoples of the union ; the ultimate objective is to eliminate all pollutants in surface water and groundwater , and to inform the public so that it can participate in the recuperation of water and not use water excessively given that it is such a precious commodity .
the situation in the north is different from that in the south , and different from the situation in those countries which have the problem of desert areas .
however , there are some amendments which attempt to help the countries of the south , specifically amendment no 43 which , with regard to the recuperation of costs , also indicates that member states must take into account the social and environmental conditions of the countries when it comes to decision making .
we cannot allow our european water to be polluted , mr president , and we must produce a directive which will strengthen the political will of governments to preserve the resource of water , which is so precious to all of us .
as an irish member of the european parliament , coming from a country which has large reserves of rich water , i support the vast majority of the proposals included in this directive .
however , i would now like to look at the areas of difference between parliament 's committee on the environment and the council .
the latter has already brought forward its common position on this matter .
according to the council the objective of achieving good surface water status should be secured no later than 16 years after the directive enters into force , whereas parliament 's committee on the environment would like to see this deadline shortened to ten years .
i see no reason why european union member states cannot work to implement the key provisions of this directive in as short a time as possible .
i now turn to the amendments to be tabled before parliament tomorrow concerning the principle of the recovery of cost of water usage .
the council in its common position states that the european union governments must take account of the principle of recovery of the cost of water usage .
no specific target date for the implementation of this principle was included in the common position .
amendment no 43 seeks to ensure that by the year 2010 water pricing policies in europe must provide adequate incentives to use water efficiently .
this is politically impractical from an irish perspective , as indeed it would be from the perspective of other eu member states such as portugal , greece and spain .
in this connection , i would ask parliament to support amendment no 108 , in which the words " water pollution caused by individual pollutants " are replaced by " prevention of water pollution through the continuous reduction in discharges " .
the eu ' s ministers for the environment must therefore stand by their affiliation to the ospar convention , which now already defines what is hazardous to the environment .
the treaty of amsterdam reiterates the priority criteria for prevention , for the implementation of the ' polluter pays ' principle and for sustainable development through an environmental impact assessment .
clearly , the importance of recognising the economic value of ecological factors in setting prices and making operators accountable through the adoption of incentives for non-polluting systems , seems unquestionable in the light of events that characterise the relationship between economic development and the protection of our environmental heritage , particularly our water resources .
this situation is loudly echoed in many sectors of the economy , and especially in the agricultural sector .
the obligation to develop and consolidate a strategy for integration derives from this notion , with the aim of keeping the management of water resources at the heart of the sustainable economic production model in the light of current conditions .
we must not , with this in mind , pursue a strategy of separating the objective of preventing a deterioration in the state of surface water and groundwater from the objectives of protecting , improving and restoring their quality , as this would create a superfluous hierarchy of priorities detrimental to the overall functioning of interventions and specific measures that target a combined approach and the use of the best available techniques .
finally , we need to set up a system which prepares an objective list of potentially dangerous substances , using the increased information available on their chemical , physical and biological properties , in such a way as to create an integrated model for intervention at a range of strategic levels in order to protect our water heritage , which is fundamental to us all .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , if we are to take the principle of sustainability enshrined in the treaty of amsterdam seriously , then our long-term objective must be to achieve zero inputs in our water because we need to safeguard water so that future generations do not pay the price for our water consumption .
i am firmly convinced that we need a strict , tight timetable in order to work towards our long-term objective .
may i take this opportunity to remind you that previous resolutions concerning the nitrates directive have still not been implemented in all member states , in spite of the fact that there is a common eu resolution .
adopting this report would have serious consequences for agriculture in the eu if concentrations of , for example , phosphorus and nitrogen could not exceed the background values for these substances in the aquatic environment and if a limit of zero were to be established for pesticides in the aquatic environment .
as a result , agricultural production would move to other countries outside the eu , with consequent high socio-economic and employment costs .
the capitalist world too sends out its pawns in order to gain maximum control over water reservoirs .
what was remarkable about this dossier was the enormous pressure from the council of ministers .
they have opted for the weak common position in favour of our parliament ' s more drastic positioning .
we must also now explain what we are doing together and what we want to do together in the future , particularly with the countries which will be joining us .
we hope to conduct this initiative in cooperation with the member states and in conjunction with the european parliament .
the commission will propose that the member states become involved in this exercise either as part of ad hoc cooperation or a more structured partnership .
we will launch this dialogue on 8 march in brussels in the presence of 700 young commission stagiaires .
mr president , i think i also speak for the committee on constitutional affairs that i chair , in expressing my appreciation of this commission initiative .
moreover , this initiative is consistent with recommendations made by parliament itself in its resolution of 18 november .
mr president , commissioner , it is music to my ears to hear you use the word ' citizen ' so often .
as you know , there are problems which not only concern this house but also the european officials who are also european citizens .
mr dupuis , first of all i attach a great deal of importance in my public life to the word ' citizen ' .
it is one of the most wonderful words in a democracy and must be used .
the story went that an official in the commission had apparently told an austrian businessman that , because he was austrian , he would possibly be excluded from being able to participate in a scientific development project together with businesses in other countries , including denmark .
generally speaking , there are other lessons to be learnt from what is happening in austria .
i firmly believe in the democratic force and value of debate , particularly to fight against demagoguery .
commissioner barnier , you laid great stress in your statement on the importance of dialogue with the citizens of europe .
mr beazley , my answer is clearly yes but that is no surprise .
mr president , firstly i would like to compliment the commission on its approach .
my second question is of a critical nature .
the european commission has just issued a proposal on transparency .
if i compare this with the transparency proposal which pertains to legislation in the netherlands , then the european model is vastly overshadowed by the dutch model , and that proposal has met with a lot of criticism in the netherlands .
the group of representatives is currently meeting in brussels and i will try to join them as soon as possible .
the documents will in the main be open working documents .
however , i believe we must also make the effort to get as close as possible to the people .
i would like to invite him to my own region of yorkshire , a major european region that is a full participant in the single european market and a major recipient of european structural funding .
in some member states it is not just a matter of providing information to a public that is not as well informed as it might be .
i forgot to mention my intention to go before the national parliaments , as i have already done , not only by meeting their representatives here but by going to see them in situ .
with regard to the dialogue with our citizens , it is not a question of propaganda or marketing , nor even of communication .
i hope that in his pursuit of dialogue around the regions of europe , commissioner barnier will expand upon that thought and learn from what he hears .
in your country , mr bonde , like everywhere else , i believe people are keen for the internal market to work properly under the fairest conditions of competition and movement of goods and people .
we are proposing that decisions on certain policies or measures involving taxation or social protection and social security should be taken by qualified majority voting when there is a direct link with the proper operation of the internal market .
we will therefore conduct this dialogue with the towns and regions .
mr berthu , the helsinki mandate is clear and we are working within this .
in the context of the humanitarian aid provided by the union and the efforts of its envoy bernard kouchner , will the commission say what measures have been taken to safeguard the women of kosovo 's right to motherhood and the health of pregnant women , women in childbirth and babies ?
mr president , the commission is conscious of the very difficult situation concerning health and health facilities in kosovo , not just for pregnant women but across the board .
however , the situation is hardly better for other parts of the population .
however , efforts are increasingly oriented towards the establishment of a self-sufficient healthcare system in the province .
unmik has already taken a significant role in this field .
secondly , under the reconstruction programme , urgent intervention at the hospital in mitrovica has already been initiated with a eur 1 million rehabilitation programme .
however , the commission is maintaining its efforts with the support of unmik for this project .
under the european community ' s damage assessment , estimated costs of the reconstruction of healthcare facilities and provision of equipment to dispensaries and health houses amount to eur 4 million .
as a result of that , a parallel health care system was put in place through the mother teresa society .
those were cases in which women who during the hostilities , or before the hostilities , tragically killed their own children .
commissioner , i would like to thank you for your response to the member ' s first question and the supplementary question .
however , i still have some contacts in kosovo who have informed me that food packages which are distributed by echo , among others , are often of inferior quality .
my second question pertains to the reconstruction of the hospital in mitrovica .
the particular difficulties in mitrovica - for example , it is not just a question of albanian patients having difficulty getting to hospital , albanian staff have had difficulty working there - are particularly acute problems .
question no 37 by ( h-0029 / 00 ) : subject : turkish blockade of armenia given that the european union is actively promoting social , economic and political relations with armenia through the partnership and cooperation agreement signed on 12 october 1999 , what steps is the commission taking to persuade the turkish government to lift the economic blockade of armenia ?
the commission supports any effort aimed at the settlement of the disputes between turkey and armenia and regrets that there has not yet been any normalisation of relations between these two countries .
in the present political circumstances it is however unrealistic to imagine that the border between armenia and turkey , as well as the one between armenia and azerbaijan could be opened without settlement of the nagorno-karabakh conflict .
my question therefore is this : will the commission make this one of the conditions in order to improve future discussions ?
the key issue is to support the efforts of the osce minsk group to find a settlement to the nagorno-karabakh conflict and we stand ready to help in any way we can .
let me relate my answer specifically to the question of turkish accession to the european union .
the situation of turkey 's relations with its neighbours will , as the honourable member asks , be closely examined in the framework of the pre-accession strategy .
question no 38 by ( h-0040 / 00 ) : subject : implications for human rights of the construction of the ilisu dam in turkey given that turkey has recently been granted applicant country status , what is the commission 's view of the implications for human rights of the construction of the ilisu dam , given the massive displacement of the kurdish and the other people of the region that will result ?
the commission has no information regarding the impact of the construction of the ilisu dam on the population of the region .
we will , however , consider raising the matter with the turkish authorities , together with other issues concerning regional development policies in the framework of the new pre-accession strategy for turkey .
we thank mr patten for having replied on behalf of the commission .
as i have said before in this house , the commission is convinced that the convention must be able , if necessary , to adapt and develop these rights in view of current circumstances , particularly technological and social changes .
however , given the mandate and the final objective of the text to be submitted to the heads of state and government , this power must be exercised with caution and on a case-by-case basis .
it may also be envisaged that some economic and social rights could be guaranteed only for citizens of the european union and third-country nationals meeting certain conditions .
it is not possible at this initial stage of the process of drawing up the charter to prejudge its content in more detail .
as i have also said before to this house , the commission is favourable to inserting the charter in the eu treaty .
however , we are fully aware that the final decision on this matter will fall to the heads of state and government .
in its opinion on the holding of an intergovernmental conference to amend the treaties , the commission noted that the european council must decide during the year 2000 on the inclusion of certain items on the igc agenda , in particular the european charter of fundamental rights .
commissioner , it is quite significant that at the beginning of this new century people in europe , men and women , are being called upon to redefine their rights and obligations .
i listened to your general guidelines and i would like to ask you what is the position of children , as entities in their own right , in the commission ' s plans for the new model of society in the twenty-first century .
mr president , mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou , in my opinion , and as mr prodi said this morning , the drawing up of the charter is an exercise with great political significance .
i understand your concern about the rights of children .
many elements of our work , and particularly of my work as commissioner for justice and home affairs , involve protecting the rights of children .
this is an area in which the principle of subsidiarity applies fully .
each member state is principally responsible for defining its responsibilities towards children .
as for the eu ' s responsibility , the rights of children must be recognised in the charter according to the areas in which the union can give added value to the promotion of the social and economic situation and even the citizenship , in its broadest sense , of children .
mr president , i have had the privilege of hearing the commissioner a number of times on this issue and i very much agree with his approach .
it is very important that the people feel engaged in this process .
it is the policy of the commission to promote an open and wide debate on the charter of fundamental rights , not only with non-governmental organisations but also with the citizens in a project as far-reaching as the charter is .
question no 40 by ( h-0095 / 00 ) : subject : articles 6.1 , 7.1 and 7.2 of the treaty on european union article 6.1 of the treaty states that the union is based on principles of liberty , democracy , respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
it is clear from statements over the past years that jorg haider and the freedom party do not respect human rights and fundamental freedoms with respect to third country nationals and minority groups living in austria .
therefore , will the commission state when they intend to propose under article 7.1 that there is ' the existence of a serious and persistent breach by a member state of the principles mentioned in article 6.1 . ' , and urge the council acting by qualified majority to suspend certain rights deriving from the application of this treaty to austria including the voting rights of the representative of austria in the council ?
the commission confirmed then , as it does today , that it shares the concerns underlying the portuguese presidency ' s statement of 1 february 2000 .
secondly , the commission reiterated and reiterates again its commitment to continue fulfilling its duty as guardian of the treaties , specifically with regard to articles 6 and 7 of the treaty on european union .
i think that it is obvious that conditions have not been met which would apply to the current situation in austria .
as a matter of fact i think that i am right in saying that we all hope that these conditions of a serious and persistent breach of human rights and of democracy are never fulfilled , either in austria or in any other member state .
i would like to assure you of my personal commitment and of that of the commission , as stated once again by president prodi this morning , to doing everything to ensure that we do not have to apply the mechanism stated in article 7 .
on the other hand , the new austrian government ' s programme reaffirms its commitment to defend democracy and human rights .
i am referring to the position the austrian government will adopt at the council with regard to the commission ' s proposals for the establishment of an action programme to combat discrimination and for two directives .
these are significant texts , adopted in accordance with article 13 of the treaty , which gave the community jurisdiction to fight discrimination on the grounds of race , ethnic origin , sex etc .
therefore i am fully confident that the commission will be able to follow very closely the evolution of the situation in austria , as in any other member state .
if any concrete case of persistent violation of human rights perpetrated by the government of one member state occurs , we will be entirely capable to react and to act accordingly .
i also rely not only on the cooperation of the members of the european parliament , but also on the cooperation of non-governmental organisations , which have always made an important contribution to the anti-discrimination policy of the commission .
the protection of ethnic minorities and of minorities that speak a specific language is an element of the programme and of the two directives that the commission has put before the council .
i sincerely hope that all member states will take the opportunity of this action plan and these two directives that the commission has presented to the council to reiterate in clear and concrete terms their approval for the action plan and for the directives and their commitment to fight against discrimination , racism and xenophobia wherever it might occur .
the environmental problems stemming from the incineration and the dumping of such waste are mainly attributable to the presence of hazardous substances ( lead , cadmium , mercury , hexavalent chrome , pvc and halogenated flame retarders ) .
consequently , the commission decided to prepare a proposal on the subject and , since 1997 , has been involved in discussions with the parties concerned .
i should just like to add that my intention is that the commission should be able to present a proposal on the dumping of electrical and electronic waste before easter .
my question specifically concerned the reaction of the us government to the text of the preliminary draft .
i note in particular that when you talk about the international law with which the text would not be compatible , you are referring in fact to the rules of the world trade organisation .
it is important for me to have a chance to answer it .
it is clear that in a process such as this , where we are discussing the disposal of a considerable stream of both electrical and electronic waste in europe , there is an on-going dialogue between the different parties concerned .
however , i do want to listen to all the points of view .
question no 42 by ( h-0026 / 00 ) : subject : gender and environment practically all the contributors involved in the rio and kyoto processes - individual organisations , civic action groups , governments , the world bank , the un and relief organisations - believed that women should take a greater part in decision-making on the environment .
through the current programme , which covers the period 1997 to 2000 , we are endeavouring to encourage a workplace culture in which the value of both men and women is integrated and where gender-specific needs are taken into consideration .
the new commission 's own objective is to double the number of women managers before the end of its term of office .
the same line is being pursued with particular vigour in the directorate-general for the environment , where nearly 60 per cent of directors and 20 per cent of unit heads are women .
our policy is to encourage the recruitment of women to administrative posts in order to create a reserve of suitable candidates for future promotion to managerial positions .
with respect to the general principle of incorporating a perspective of equality , as you know , this principle is included in the treaty of amsterdam .
article 3 of the treaty states that , in all the activities referred to in this article , the community shall aim to eliminate inequalities , and to promote equality , between women and men .
question no 43 by ( h-0045 / 00 ) : subject : the boyne estuary and the drogheda port company the boyne estuary is designated a special protection area ( spa ) under the wild birds directive and is under consideration for designation as a special area of conservation under the habitats directive , as it is an area of international importance .
the boyne estuary is designated a special protection area under the wild birds directive .
that means that any development that takes place in or near the boyne estuary and that is likely to affect the special protection area must take account of the protection criteria for the area laid down in the community ' s habitats directive .
even the area designated by the commissioners as a special protection area has been destroyed .
the first legal challenge followed the start of work on the port of development in early autumn 1999 without the compensatory habitat improvements being in place .
as meps are well aware , in the course of last year a joint text was issued by our predecessors in the commission , ritt bjerregaard and monika wulf-mathies concerning the relationship between the structural funds , money from the structural funds and protection under the habitats and birds directives .
the involvement of regional and local authorities in the community ' s action is , as you know , one of the essential elements of the new post-berlin structural funds regulation .
as for the monitoring and management of these programmes , i have not yet received the national provisions proposed by the greek government pursuant to article 8 of the new regulation .
in the current negotiations on this third community support framework , i have asked for the provisions on the partnership principle to be fully respected , with regard to both regional and local authorities and to non-governmental organisations and associations .
having said that , i thought your question related more to the partnership issue .
however , turning to the substance , i should like to ask the commissioner to bear in mind the following : that for all national and regional programmes , greece is regarded as a region which expresses itself - at the level of its partnership relations with the european union - via its central administration , its central government .
mr theonas , i can only repeat what i said to mr alavanos .
on mrs isler beguin ' s first point i must remind her that the improvement of the scientific basis and technical capacities of the regions in order to increase their competitiveness was one of the community ' s priorities during the previous programming period .
the support allocated by the structural funds for technological cohesion , or research and technical developments , within the community support frameworks for that period is estimated at approximately eur 7.5 billion .
with regard to your specific concern , i can say that , as in the previous period , the commission does not intend to directly finance through the structural funds research and technical development in the area of nuclear fusion or fission .
consequently , even though this is not a community priority , a member state can decide to finance research and development projects in the civil nuclear technology area , provided that these projects contribute to regional development .
i was able to verify this , for example , during a visit i made to the azores in portugal a few days ago with regard to a natural source of renewable energy .
as a result , the commission services are not systematically informed of all projects selected .
as has happened in the past , the member states are required to provide answers when the commission questions them or asks for clarification .
mr maccormick , the commission has no plans to amend the rules concerning additionality which were stipulated , for the 2000-2006 period , in article 11 of the general regulation on the funds .
provided that the member state does not reduce all its own expenditure , the structural funds are added to the national expenditure and the principle of additionality is therefore respected .
as for the budgetary provisions within the member states , between central government and internal autonomous regions or countries , these are determined according to exclusively national considerations and are therefore not affected by additionality within the meaning defined in the rules .
we are left with article 11 ( 1 ) which says that the appropriations of the funds may not replace public or other equivalent structural expenditure by the member states .
if mr maccormick would be satisfied with my partial agreement with his reasoning , i will give him a full answer in writing by restating the legal bases of both article 11 in general and article 11 ( 1 ) in particular .
i also know the particular problems in your constituency in scotland where disputes and discussions are occurring on these subjects .
i would point out to the commissioner that mr aznar is the president of the spanish government .
as i did not have an answer , i wrote to the minister for economic and financial affairs on 14 december .
i do believe it is important to say that andalusia is going to receive 50 % more within the community support framework and that spain also holds the record for the use of the structural funds , which means that the distribution is based strictly on the implementing regulations and is decentralised by means of the regional development plans and different community support frameworks .
having said this , we must accept that elections are always taking place in the countries of the european union .
questions nos 48 to 50 will be replied to in writing .
question no 51 by ( h-0049 / 00 ) : subject : new premises for the ohim at present the office for harmonisation in the internal market ( ohim ) is still operating from the same temporary premises , even though its new building was opened in june 1999 .
the honourable member asked a question on this topic in november 1999 and i would like to refer him to the answer given at the time .
furthermore , i have asked the president of the office for harmonisation in the internal market , that is to say the office in alicante , to comment further on this new question and i can , as a result , inform the honourable member as follows , on behalf of the office : the office is not yet ready to move into the new building .
if you had been there , i am sure you would have been ashamed .
the opening of a building which was not finished , in the middle of an election campaign , which eight months after the opening can still not be occupied , makes the spanish government look ridiculous .
i am not worried that the spanish government should look foolish , because at the end of the day it was their responsibility , but it does worry me that the commission should look foolish by endorsing , through its presence , this absurd event .
what i can say is that i hope that this building will now be occupied as soon as possible .
i hope that this building will then be occupied .
we do not intend to go in the direction of what is termed in french un proces d 'intention .
as far as i am concerned , all expenditure is real .
as the author is not present , question no 52 lapses .
as they deal with the same subject , questions nos 53 and 54 will be taken together .
question no 54 by ( h-0117 / 00 ) : subject : alcohol monopoly and the internal market what action does the commission intend to take in order to prevent the extension of the state alcohol monopoly apparently being planned by sweden , and the associated import restrictions , and to ensure that the rules of the single market are applied ?
this derogation from the principle of the free movement of goods lapses on 30 june of this year .
sweden now wants to extend this measure by another five years , as this would be necessary to protect public health .
sweden has now had sufficient time - since its accession to the union - to adapt its policies to a situation where such import restrictions do not exist .
this certainly does not mean that i do not share the concern in sweden surrounding the possible health problems which can be caused by alcohol abuse .
my second question concerns the whole policy on alcohol .
if we had considered these aspects in their overall context , then it might have been easier to carry on a dialogue with sweden .
these countries are in the process of taking measures in preparation of free access of alcoholic products in the year 2003 .
however , in the case of sweden , the situation is different .
but in that case , not only sweden , but all eu countries , should then be subject to a total ban on alcohol .
i gather that mr posselt has hinted at the fiscal aspects of this matter .
i also happen to know that the high tax on alcohol products in sweden goes back to the year 1638 and that since then , the sale of alcohol products has accounted for a significant portion of the state ' s tax revenue .
the commission has to take a decision on whether the matter is closed or whether it should refer it to the european court of justice .
my reply is perhaps not satisfactory right now , but i would like to assure the honourable member that the commission will take that decision within a matter of weeks .
it will no doubt engage in a discussion both with parliament and the council on this state of affairs , which indicates that there are quite a lot of differences in excise rates between member states .
for example - i believe the honourable member referred to this - no excise taxes are applied on wine in france , whereas they are applied in the united kingdom .
the question specifically refers to the relation between excise taxes and the alcohol content of the goods subject to excise tax .
although this leads to a disparity in excise taxes between sweden and other member states of the union - and that by itself increases cross-border smuggling of alcoholic products - it is a legitimate instrument to decrease the consumption of alcohol .
may i assure mr maccormick and other members of this parliament that the present situation where excise taxes differ between member states is indeed something which is not conducive to the proper functioning of the internal market .
if one looks at petrol , for example , one sees that excise taxes in germany are different from those of holland , and consequently dutch motorists cross the border and fill up their tanks in germany .
this is an area of unanimity , as mr maccormick knows , and unless all member states agree on the equalisation of excise taxes , it will not happen .
once again , towards the end of this year , the commission will forward a report on the state of affairs on excise taxes , and i am obviously available for any discussion with parliament on that report .
since the time allotted to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions 55 to 114 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , the situation regarding fresh water in europe is not as serious as in other parts of the world but , in general terms , it is a fact that the demand for water has continued to grow and its quality has continued to decrease .
to this we must add the water pollution problems which afflict the potential new member states in the east .
i believe that no country , no government and , of course , no member of this parliament can fail to recognise the need for this directive in order to end the current fragmentation of water policy and facilitate the implementation of a programme of specific measures for each river basin .
the development of this directive has been difficult and complex , involving diverse interests and divided opinions .
however , it is almost impossible to understand and correctly assess all the different situations and expectations .
therefore , it seems essential to us that the directive complies , in practice , with the obligation laid down in article 164 of the treaty on the need for community legislation to take account of the diversity of its regions .
in accordance with this principle , the spanish delegation of the european people ' s party will oppose amendments nos 4 ( recital 21 ) , 13 and 49 ( article 11 ( d ) ) , since they imply a serious limitation in an area of management exclusive to the member states , that is , the regulation of water resources .
it would be very difficult for the community to determine the conditions for the regulation of water in the different regions , given the different internal balances which are always in play and which require profound knowledge of the different areas and the relevant interests .
we must clearly set water prices which promote its efficient use but which , at the same time , safeguard the competitivity of the producing industries in the less-favoured regions and do not hinder their legitimate development .
i would lastly like to refer to the amendments on dangerous substances which establish that we must achieve a zero , or close to zero , degree of pollution .
i hope that , once again , this house will vote with a sense of reality and respect for the principle of subsidiarity , seeking a suitable balance between the environmental objectives and economic and social considerations , the three essential elements in achieving the sustainable development which we all wish to see so much .
mr president , commissioner , this is a very important directive .
but the key issue is , in my opinion , planning how to restore water tables , the natural flow of rivers and the natural content of lakes , which must be carried out within the ten year period we have in mind .
mr president , here we have what is basically a good measure .
the prevention of pollution and water deterioration has to be right as well as the ability to manage water in times of drought and flood .
the concept of continuing reduction as in amendment no 58 is much better .
it is also a point of departure because a new framework of reference has been created , into which future european legislation on water will converge and flow .
the rapporteur ' s proposal is one which , on the whole , i would wish to support but i would like to express some praise for it and then two concerns .
my first concern is about the timetable laid down in the directive : it may prove to be a straitjacket although i think that it also represents a powerful challenge .
paying a fair price for water may also result in injustices .
the recent catastrophe on the danube has illustrated , as in a nightmare , that a long-term policy and strategy for the ecological protection of our water , however much it may cost , is not a luxury of the rich but a necessity for civilisation .
mr president , first of all , we want to denounce the fathomless hypocrisy of those who claim to be concerned about the environment and water , but whose criminal activities such as the attacks against yugoslavia , aside from leaving thousands dead and wounded , have also brought about huge ecological disasters for water resources too , making them not only unusable but even extremely hazardous .
that is not only because it is about guaranteeing sufficient water resources but also because it is , to a large degree , about safeguarding water resources against pollution so that we can also have clean drinking water in the future .
we are all entitled to clean drinking water .
i also think it is important that we should put pressure on the member states to devise the necessary action programmes more quickly than is proposed in the common position .
in this regard , too , i think that the 2010 deadline is appropriate .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur for some excellent work in drafting this important directive .
the event proves that in some countries applying for eu membership the environmental norms and environmental thinking are still light years behind the eu .
in finland surface waters are very clean .
the production of so-called artificial groundwater is an ecological means of filtering a clean supply of fresh surface water through to the groundwater reserves .
the directive must not be allowed to endanger this work .
deviating from the council ' s common position , the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy is also attempting to restrict further the facilities for the transfer of water .
mr president , commissioner , water is a precious natural asset , a vital necessity , and it is our duty to protect it .
i think it essential to have a framework directive on water policy in the european union , which will be the basic legal instrument for improving the quality and proper management of water resources , and i congratulate the rapporteur on her attempt to address this thorny issue and take due account of all the points of view .
in recent years , climate change has compelled mediterranean countries to face serious problems of flooding or lack of rain .
we agree with the common position but we also accept several of the amendments tabled , whose aim is to improve it .
in spite of these remarks however , i believe our common objective of sustainable use of water resources can be maintained .
mr president , commissioner , the measures contained in this directive range from drafting water management plans , comprehensive information and hearing rights , and close cooperation between the member states , to combating water pollution caused by individual pollutants .
i am aware , and the previous speaker highlighted this , that there are states in the european union that have problems with water .
mr president , commissioner , we should be pleased that this directive has already reached second reading .
however , i must say that i am not over-pleased because i believe that this directive is not of great quality , it is going to be very difficult to implement and has many shortcomings .
in the same way , this damage and these tragedies which are happening , as in romania , are not the problem of the legislative , but of the executive and of the governments .
mr president , through the consolidation of existing directives this framework directive establishes the basic principle of a sustainable water policy in the european union .
it is a framework for the protection and management of our water - surface , ground , transitional and coastal - through the establishment of river basin districts at national and , in our case in ireland , cross-border level .
we have no difficulty with the " polluter pays " principle in relation to the recovery of costs on water usage at industrial , commercial and agricultural level .
meters could be viewed as a very important tool in water management by the new river basin districts , to help the elimination of water wastage and for the proper planning of future requirements .
water is a scarce and precious natural resource .
ideally , i would like amendment no 45 to fall tomorrow so that the common position on article 9 would hold on water charges .
that would allow for subsidiarity on a cost policy for water charges , with each member states drawing up its own scheme , so long as the principles of this directive on incentives for sustainable and efficient use of water are fully protected .
if amendment no 45 does not fall , i will have to move an oral amendment tomorrow to ensure that member states may grant exemptions to the provisions of this article in order to allow a basic level of water use for domestic purposes before contributions to the recovery of cost of water services .
all legislation must be enforceable and be based on the general principle of political acceptance .
i believe that access to clean drinking water without charge is a basic human right in the developed as well as the developing world .
mr president , commissioner , at this point in the debate i am going to insist on certain aspects which , from an agronomic point of view , and since i come from a southern country , i consider to be absolutely essential to this directive .
these include , for example , costs and transfers .
one of the most significant transfers - the tajo-segura transfer - which has been in use for many years , almost 30 years , has an allowance of 658 hm3 per year .
the largest volume transferred in one year has been 453 and the average volume over twenty years has been over 200 .
we cannot be prohibited from carrying out transfers when our economy and the development of our regions depend on it .
i will not tackle the issue of quality and the best available technologies , because i believe that we will return to a discussion of this directive .
take good note : in this diverse europe , which we are building in a spirit of mutual cooperation , we have to find diverse solutions , not single solutions .
i therefore appeal to the common sense of the commission , the council and this house so that , when voting , they do not impose uniformity on the different countries of europe in areas where subsidiarity is required .
many of them are based upon the very constructive , informal discussions which have taken place between parliament and the council in connection with the first reading .
the commission can approve 72 of the 108 amendments , either in their entirety , partially or in principle .
with a view to these forthcoming negotiations , i would therefore urge parliament to vote in favour of an ambitious position .
firstly , i should like to mention some of my most important arguments .
allow me now to comment on some of the areas in a little more detail .
i therefore welcome amendments nos 6 , 10 , 14 , 24 , 58 , 60 and 88 .
the commission cannot , on the other hand , approve amendment no 19 , in which hazardous substances are defined differently than in ospar .
the commission can also , in principle , approve amendment no 60 , according to which a timetable is required for implementing the commission ' s proposal to limit discharges of prioritised substances .
amendment no 59 introduces requirements to the effect that the list of prioritised substances should continually be reviewed .
the desire expressed in amendments nos 60 and 93 for a list of goals and a list of substances for which no adequate data is available cannot be approved .
i can wholeheartedly support the demand that the price of water should be set at a level which creates incentives to use water resources in a sustainable way .
i also support the demand for a suitable contribution from each sector to cover own costs .
i can therefore partly , and in principle , approve amendments nos 43-46 , together with amendment no 85 .
i therefore support the overall thrust of amendment no 105 , which is in line with the commission ' s original proposal .
we are aware of the fact that the price of water and water services is a complicated issue and that account must be taken not only of environmental goals but also of social and economic goals .
we intend shortly to issue a communication from the commission on precisely this question .
a period of ten years , as proposed in amendments nos 24 and 26 , among others , is , on the other hand , too short .
the proposal must also include more stringent criteria for establishing lesser environmental objectives and for extending deadlines in connection with heavily modified or artificial bodies of water .
this applies to amendments nos 6 , 24 , 25 , 27 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 , 78 , 80 , 102 and 104 .
to comply with the demands in amendments nos 27 and 29 , to the effect that the commission should approve every extension , would be going too far , and these cannot be approved .
another important area is protection of the groundwater .
the new definition in amendment no 72 is , however , too strict and cannot be applied for this purpose .
i would propose that amendment no 92 should be incorporated into a broader solution .
the good status which is required under this proposal ought to guarantee that the demand for surface water of good quality is fulfilled .
this part of amendment no 41 cannot , therefore , be approved .
this approach and its scope , which the commission can in principle approve , are defined by amendments nos 22 and 47 .
these parts of amendments nos 49 and 87 can , therefore , be approved .
the proposal already specifies that water must be abstracted in accordance with the ecological needs in the river basin district concerned .
these parts of amendments nos 49 and 87 cannot , therefore , be approved .
the commission approves amendment no 76 to the effect that radioactive substances are explicitly to be included in the proposal .
to summarise , the commission is able to approve 72 amendments , either in their entirety , partially or in principle .
the following amendments cannot be approved : 1 , 4 , 9 , 11 , 13 , 15 , 19 , 23 , 39 , 40 , 51 , 59 , 61 , 64 , 66 , 70 , 71 , 71 , 72 , 74 , 77 , 79 , 81 , 83 , 87 , 89 , 90 , 91 , 95 , 97 , 98 , 100 , 101 , 103 , 106 and 107 .
finally , i want to say that i welcome the efforts which parliament has made to try to solve the questions on which the council takes other views .
a number of obstacles remain , but i am convinced that , as the legislative work progresses , we shall achieve our common goal of creating a water policy we can be proud of .
i would like to hear the commissioner 's view on amendment no 45 .
thank you , mrs wallstrom .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 p.m .
rapporteur . ( fr ) mr president , we have already had the opportunity , at the first reading , to examine this report and i was given to believe in committee that there was a broad consensus within this house .
and so the debates taking place today focus on two major issues : firstly , comitology , an ongoing debate within this house , but parliament wished to implement policies settled rather by management committees or advisory committees which give the commission some flexibility and which do not give the council too much scope to obstruct and have their intergovernmental philosophy prevail over the community philosophy which we are here to stand up for within the european parliament .
let me point out that parliament is asking for 850 million ecus in appropriations , not a vast sum in the community budget , and that the current proposals are for 613 million ecus .
i would , however , like to point out that the council has plenty of time to formulate its ideas and that it is submitting its proposals to us only a few months before the fateful date .
as for us , we our bound by the terms of the texts : a maximum of four months .
i therefore hope , firstly , that our fellow members will support us in the conciliation - but votes on this area are always very much in agreement - but also that the council and the commission will manage to listen to us and that we shall each take a step towards the other .
it is better firstly because the framework proposal made life i more rigorous , more transparent and more rational .
thirdly , the fact that the common position has for the first time introduced upgrading and planning for coastal areas as one of life-environment ' s priorities is an extremely positive step .
in spite of all its virtues though , life iii ' s regulation fails in what is obviously the most important aspect of determining a financial instrument ' s impact , which is its budget .
by persisting with their proposal of eur 613 million as a reference amount for 2000 - 2004 , and by refusing to accept the european parliament ' s proposal of eur 850 million , the commission and the council are taking a decision which we do not feel is based on the same criteria of rationality and justice that they introduced , and rightly so , for other measures in life iii .
firstly , life is the only direct financial instrument which is designed to promote environmental policy within the european union .
we therefore feel it is crucial that as amendments nos 5 and 6 seek to establish as objectives which life-environment should achieve a plan for the sustainable management of ground water and surface water , as well as for reducing greenhouse gases , they should be adopted .
i cannot fathom this at all and expressly call upon all my fellow meps to support mrs lienemann ' s motion on raising the funding to eur 850 million .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , life is the european union ' s most important instrument and indeed its only financial instrument dedicated exclusively to the environment .
the common position stipulates a total appropriation of eur 613 million for the period 2000-2004 .
an investment in natural resources , of course , but also in employment , since it has been demonstrated that an active environmental policy generated new jobs , as shown particularly by the great success of life , a success with ngos , businesses , local authorities and third countries .
more than one third of the 8,500 requests received meet the required conditions and it has been possible to cofinance approximately 1,300 projects between 1992 and 1998 .
a success which parliament wishes and intends to see perpetuated , and this is why we also support amendment 14 outlining the fourth phase of the life project .
mr president , commissioner , i am probably going to repeat things my fellow members have said but i believe that , as far as the council is concerned , the thing is to repeat over and over what we think of life .
i shall therefore reiterate that , as the rapporteur has already said quite clearly , life is the only specific financial instrument for the implementation of the european union ' s policy on the environment .
this instrument is absolutely essential since it provides the impetus for truly innovative actions in favour of nature and the environment in europe , which are adopted and expanded upon by the member states .
this financial instrument is , furthermore , deliberately democratic since it is accessible to both governmental and non-governmental organisations .
through the associations , then , life is a facility that can be used by the european citizen directly , and for the benefit of actions in the interest of the community .
several million ngo members - millions , i say - recognise in life the union ' s determination to build up an ambitious policy in favour of our natural heritage .
life is , moreover , the fundamental instrument of the natura 2000 network in europe into which the member states have put a lot , pursuant to community directives on the habitats of rare and endangered fauna and flora and on migratory birds , and which makes it possible to set up the protection of sites of high biological value in our states .
this is a pity because everyone within this chamber knows that life is a financial instrument which is not sufficient to carry out the projects submitted by member states , a good many of which are turned down due to lack of funds .
let us not forget that , to date , life amounts to only eur 100 million per annum , i.e .
for the record , the budget for agriculture , which has a real impact on the environment , amounts , as we all know , to eur 37 billion .
the first sustainable development projects are unquestionably those .
i would also like to congratulate the services of the commission , since the evaluation , control and monitoring of the life programme provide a reasonable guarantee with regard to the selection and execution of projects .
of the eur 1 919 million requested , only eur 784 million have been granted .
now the financial statement shows only eur 613 million to cover more countries and competences .
parliament has proposed eur 850 million , but the document repeats the initial proposal of eur 613 million .
commissioner , we must be consistent .
the cost of maintaining the environment , which we all enjoy , must be met by all of us , and the life programme is the only financial instrument aimed exclusively at the environment and whose projects have generally been effective .
the funding of activities for the implementation , adaptation and development of community policy in the environment sector and the incorporation of the environment in other policies , particularly ones that contribute towards sustainable development , are central elements of the regulation we are to vote upon .
as regards the financing package for the implementation of life over the next five years , i wholeheartedly support the increase from eur 613 million to eur 850 million proposed by the rapporteur , mrs lienemann .
besides , we cannot remain indifferent towards the increased challenges in areas around the union or towards addressing very acute environmental protection problems in the applicant countries .
consequently , i consider that support for environmental action under the life financial instrument will help to further community policy in the environmental sector and can contribute substantially to fulfilling the community ' s mission of achieving a high level of environmental protection and improvement .
the commission welcomes , above all , amendments nos 1 , 2 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 13 , which apply to the committee procedures .
in these cases , parliament has fully taken account of the objections which the commission had to the common position .
with regard to amendments nos 5 and 6 , i want to emphasise that projects for the sustainable exploitation of groundwater and surface water , together with projects for reducing forms of air pollution which contribute to the greenhouse effect , are to a large degree covered by life .
amendment no 12 requires a larger budget than that stated in the common position .
i am also convinced that life has great potential .
the amount quoted in amendment no 12 does not , however , tally with the budget set on the basis of agenda 2000 .
at this stage , the commission is keeping to the amount which has been set in the common position .
with regard to amendment no 3 , which we did not approve at first reading , i want to emphasise that each programme has its own objectives , conditions under which it may be applied for and costs which make it eligible for aid .
it is therefore meaningless , and often impossible , directly to transfer projects from life to other instruments .
nor can the commission approve amendment no 14 , which is contrary to the commission ' s right of initiative .
finally , i want to repeat that i am convinced that life will be an effective instrument in support of development and the implementation of the community ' s environmental policy .
parliament has contributed greatly to improving this instrument .
i am convinced that you share my wish that it should be possible to adopt the regulation as soon as possible , especially in view of the fact that there are great expectations in the member states and in other countries , especially among the applicant states which are now being given the opportunity to participate in life .
thank you , mrs wallstrom .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
the basis is monetary cooperation , which has since been followed up by macro-economic cooperation and cooperation on employment policy .
economic stability is a reason for growth and can provide high employment .
but the reverse is also the case : a well-developed policy on social security can contribute to high employment and to increased growth .
in other words , social security is a factor of production .
the labour market is also changing .
women are venturing into the labour market in ever greater numbers .
we are creating a common model , but retaining the principle of subsidiarity .
this social convergence is a process which will continue for a long period .
parliament must therefore be involved in the work - not by being part of the high-level group , but by enabling parliamentary representatives to track the work of the latter and come up with proposals as to how the process is to be carried on .
in our report , we have highlighted the importance of combating poverty within the eu and of finding indicators as soon as possible so that we can make progress in this area .
parallel to this european strategy of social convergence , a concrete plan for legislative work in the social sphere is required , together with proposals for framework agreements in the context of the dialogue between employers and employees , accompanied by a concrete timetable .
social convergence is also needed before the enlargement of the union , partly in order to strengthen the social model and partly to combat the risk of social dumping .
the commission ought to consider devising a special action programme concerning social policy in connection with enlargement .
certainly , it resembles amendment no 1 , but amendment no 14 is better .
the eu is also a union for employment and social justice .
by means of this report , parliament wishes to make its contribution to reinforcing the social dimension of european society .
we hope that the council and the commission will take this contribution seriously and include it in future social policy .
the mutual interdependence of issues pertaining to the national economy , employment policy , and social protection in the internal market calls for there to be joint deliberations at community level in this respect .
we have not achieved equal rights for men and women either in the sphere of work or that of social protection .
as a result , they have a low level of social protection or none whatsoever , for paid employment serves as the basis for this according to systems currently in force .
however , it must still be worth an individual ' s while to work , notwithstanding all the necessary contributions .
as before , in principle it is the member states that are responsible for framing and financing their social protection systems .
nevertheless , cooperation within the eu on the part of the expert working group , in which women must be suitably represented , could be instrumental in bringing about convergence of the social systems in the long term .
gender-related aspects must feature prominently in all these goals .
i believe that congratulations are also in order for the commission with regard to this notification , for these four points are , in fact , to a very large number of eu citizens extremely important - if not the most important points which merit further thought .
the commission ' s communication is an important strategic document for bringing about european social convergence .
the commission has recognised this interrelatedness .
the challenges are different .
the levels of employment are different and this is why it is very important to set the ball rolling gently but to make steady progress nonetheless .
it is a report which tries to give direction .
i hope that europe , in terms of social protection , will make a step forward , taking into account subsidiarity , for without subsidiarity , this would not be possible .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , like my fellow mep , bartho pronk , please allow me to thank the commission for this communication and , in particular , to congratulate our rapporteur for the work he has put into this report .
commissioner , the fact that this report is no longer controversial within parliament does not mean that it has lost any of its crucial importance .
within my group , it speaks for itself that social protection forms an important part of this social cohesion and should thus also be added to the agenda in lisbon .
my group is pleased that the social affairs council gave the go-ahead for a better cooperation strategy as early on as the end of last year and that , in fact , a group of high-ranking officials has already been commissioned to submit to the council an initial report by june 2000 .
it is of great importance that , in our fellow mep ' s report , this european parliament advocates a true european strategy of social convergence , based on what provisions have been made for employment via the so-called luxembourg strategy , that is to say it should encompass common goals , guidelines , national action plans and performance evaluations .
the employment strategy has proved that it can function well and social convergence is also necessary , for our social security systems are facing the same challenges , and in an emu era , social security systems would otherwise threaten to fall prey to social competition .
but let me make one thing clear on behalf of my group : social convergence strategies should not be an alternative to social legislation .
i think that it also a good thing if , moreover , the european parliament tried to convince the council to substantiate the common strategy as early on as in lisbon and to launch an annual procedure to reduce poverty levels no later than at the beginning of 2001 .
finally , we urge the european parliament , both sides of industry and social ngos to be closely involved in this process .
we now already have major social problems and major social costs to find from the public budgets , which is a problem for many member states .
we have different traditions and there are differences in culture and , in spite of there being many points of similarity , there are also major differences between one country and another in the nature and extent of the social problems concerned .
i do not agree with the requirement that the commission should intervene in regard to what is referred to as unfair competition between social and tax systems , if interference of this kind is to be used to stem the tide of new thinking and to restrict development and the process of making our social systems more efficient , or else to prevent a reduction in the unduly high tax burden in many eu countries .
mr president , commissioner , with regard to the strategy which has been set out here on modernising social security , i would like to point out some positive things as well as raise some questions that have come up for me .
the reasons for adjustments are , for example , to improve employment , reduce social security expenditure , but are also due to policy competition and emu criteria .
policy competition mainly occurs in the northern countries .
the highest level of stability and even improvement of social security can be found in the southern countries .
all in all , both sides of industry only have a limited role to play in the process as a whole .
mr president , i come from the same country and the same region as the rapporteur , mr andersson .
but i am critical of the global perspective on social security which characterises both the commission ' s communication and mr andersson ' s report .
but social integration is an entirely different type of process which presupposes cultural community and direct communication between people .
social policy is chiefly a national process .
local democracy provides the framework for social security .
i belong to a party which , once upon a time , believed in central control , five-year plans and far-reaching convergence requirements .
i do not believe that the chief responsibility can lie with mr prodi and his commission .
but under the influence of the free movement of employees , of the internal market and of the euro , the labour markets are actually beginning to become integrated .
in order to combat distortion of competition and prevent dumping , the commission has , in my opinion , developed a well-balanced approach which steers a midcourse between harmonisation and non-intervention .
indeed , expansion , globalisation , a sharp increase in the ageing population , individualisation and changes in family situations render such reorganisation inevitable .
indeed , if social protection were to be phased out as a result of competition , this would also harm social protection as a production factor .
the discrepancies between the member states are too immense in terms of provisions , rightful claimants , revenue or benefits , etc .
social policy needs to be renewed in order to reduce unemployment in the member states .
the eu should also , on the basis of a uniform definition of poverty thresholds , table recommendations concerning what is called the minimum acceptable subsistence level in the member states .
those structural problems which make unemployment higher in europe than in the united states will become even greater .
the member states can devise their own systems in the social sphere , each within the framework of its economic resources and political preferences .
he has done a great deal of work on behalf of parliament in producing a wide-ranging consensus on what is , by any definition , a thorny issue , not just in this parliament but in virtually every member state .
to be successful we have to ensure that our economic policy , our employment policy and our social protection policy in its broadest sense , are integrated and that we deal with them as a whole .
we have to ensure that our ecofin ministers and our employment ministers acknowledge that social affairs ministers have a contribution to make to the establishment of a society in europe which is creative , has initiative and which will provide a high quality of life for all of our citizens .
we do not want the us model - a model which has spectacularly failed to create the employment that is necessary to provide a decent quality of life .
we have the traditions of solidarity in europe and we have the experience of a better way of doing things .
mr president , commissioner , this is one of the social areas to which the european union ought to pay much more attention .
macroeconomic policies , the stability pact and the criteria for nominal convergence have put a brake on modernising social protection which would improve the quality of people ' s lives , specifically by means of a significant increase in pensions and pension schemes , particularly of the minimum pensions , and through fighting social exclusion .
this situation is particularly serious in countries such as portugal where the minimum pensions and pension schemes are barely more than half of the minimum national wage which in turn , is the lowest in the whole of europe .
mr president , in my previous life i ran two manufacturing businesses , one in the united kingdom and one in the netherlands .
the simple reason for this was that social costs in the netherlands were just too high in comparison .
the european union should actually place social issues at the heart of the building of europe .
the european union should proclaim one general principle , to wit , that the social rights acquired in member states may not be restricted .
in order to strengthen the funding of social security systems , we need a policy of general wage increase , the establishment of a minimum legal wage in each member state .
in order to fight poverty , entitlement to an income and to employment are inalienable rights .
finally , in order to avoid health being treated in any way as a commodity , the european union should declare itself clearly opposed to pension funds and to a situation where private insurance companies have access to the health system .
the labour market and social protection are , in fact , two sides of the same coin , that require harmonised policies and rules .
if the labour market functions by means of certain levels of employment , flexibility and salary discipline , then it is impossible for the welfare state and social protection not to function , and vice versa .
i would like to highlight the clear positions adopted against social dumping , together with the right to a basic level of social security , the goal of social convergence , and , in particular , the quite specific points that have been made about equal opportunities for women being the primary objectives of this social policy .
i believe that the latter means the possibility of employment for those who require it , but also decisive action in support of the socially disadvantaged .
bearing in mind that everybody has the right to social protection and a minimum guaranteed social income , i believe that we must not forget about those people who were not born in the european union .
in social terms , it is therefore absolutely essential that we have an immigration policy with a social conscience , as president gutierres recently stated in spain .
what is required here is a training policy to qualify and prepare people for new jobs , for those who already have a job and for those who need a second opportunity , because sometimes , as the title of the film states , the postman always rings twice .
in my humble opinion , it is the responsibility of all european , national and regional governments to ensure that he rings on more than one occasion .
the second point is that we must bear in mind the legal basis by virtue of which the european commission can operate .
you know very well that the treaty provides no legal basis for policies at european level , but there is the agreement expressed at the last council , there is agreement that work should begin on coordination and the exchange of experience , as well as the exchange of successful programmes between the member states .
the portuguese presidency has focused on two things : sustainable pension systems and social accession .
concerning some remarks about the role of social protection systems , the cost of social protection and the part played by those systems in the competitiveness of the member states , i should like to say that in europe policies strive to combine competitiveness and social cohesion .
thank you , mrs diamantopoulou .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
forgeries are big business .
the problem affects a lot of jobs in the entertainment industry .
there exists a special clause which requires parliament ' s assent in two cases .
a new institution is being created , an assembly which , in the future , will monitor the agreement and its consequences .
parliament cannot , in any case , at present do anything about the matter .
parliament cannot change these details .
we can only say yes or no to the agreement as it stands .
both myself , as rapporteur , and the committee think we ought to say yes .
we have here an agreement which , in spite of its defects , constitutes a significant step forward for the issue of copyright .
now , the union and the member states are combining to take the first steps in the area of intellectual property law .
finally , i also want to thank this chamber for being so good as to listen to these words at this late hour .
today we are asked to give our assent in effect to two treaties : the treaty on intellectual property and the treaty on interpretations , performances and phonograms .
even though , as the commission says , the texts of the treaties do not contain special provisions to regulate all the respective issues raised by technological development , it can nevertheless be said that within the legislative framework created , performing or interpreting artists enjoy broader protection than that accorded by the treaty of rome or even by the community directives .
interpreting article 7 of the treaty , we can conclude that the application of protection for reproduction does not only mean protection for the reproduction of the interpretations or performances themselves as such that are embodied in recordings , but also protection against copying , whether in whole or in part and whether permanent or temporary , and protection against any other form of production .
first , there is the right of distribution as referred to in article 8 ( 1 ) .
to conclude , i want to say that ratification of these treaties opens a horizon for property rights .
in the 21st century , the century of knowledge and the invisible economy , intellectual property will be the dominant form of property and will , in many cases , be more important than traditional property .
we are at the dawn of an age in which new legislation will be created , where the right to utilise intellectual property will clash head on with the public interest in terms of its dissemination and exploitation by the public at large .
in signing up , the eu is acting in accordance with its intention to arrogate all internal and international powers , but it is unclear as to where the powers withdrawn from national control , are to end up .
this ratification is also necessary in the light of the enlargement of europe .
mr president , commissioner , the adoption of the wipo agreements was a very positive step in the direction of the global information society .
the new operational environment is , above all , a huge opportunity to create and spread culture in a different way than ever before .
it is essential that the interests of all parties are taken into account .
mr president , with regard to the protection of intellectual property rights , the reality always seems to be ahead of the regulations .
if this is the case , it is all the more obvious when the process involves multinational or supranational organisations , such as the wipo , which has debated the treaties which we are proposing to rectify .
in considering whether we are in favour of the ratification of these treaties , we may wonder whether they meet the most current needs in that field .
on the one hand , the problems which it aims to resolve have already been resolved to a large extent by means of the directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society .
on the other hand , the majority of the member states have already adapted their legislation to the treaties which are now being ratified .
i must finally point out that the legislative amendments introduced in a number of countries , such as spain , have resolved some conflicts but have led to others which are commonly found when it comes to putting a price on rights and material .
both the wipo copyright treaty and the wipo performances and phonograms treaty constitute progress in the international protection of copyright and neighbouring rights and are , as such , a considerable improvement on the berne convention and the treaty of rome .
both treaties contribute towards a high level of protection for works and other matters , but offer the public access to the contents of these via electronic networks .
in addition , assent leads to more widespread international recognition of the european union ' s role in terms of copyright .
at international level , there is a great deal of support for treaties entering into force more swiftly .
the entry into force of treaties largely depends on the european union , because thirty ratification acts are required in order for treaties to enter into effect , and these acts that are signed by the european union and the member states , including associated countries , are of vital importance in order to reach this number .
in this context , parliament has already played a key role in the discussions on the draft directive on copyright in the information society , which led to the approval of the barzanti report in february 1999 .
this directive is the necessary counterpart of the proposed decision and largely embraces the key principles of the wipo treaties .
the european parliament must now follow once again the exceptional assent procedure of article 300 ( 3 ) .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.55 p.m. )
we finally got here , on monday at 8.30 p.m. , after some of us had spent more than 12 hours travelling .
this sort of service and difficulty in getting to strasbourg on a monday is quite hopeless .
mr president , i just want to say that , as i was walking in this morning , i noticed two people smoking outside the hemicycle .
the consequence of all this is a reassessment of development policies in response to the globalisation of economic and financial markets .
as you will know , the aim of these objectives is to cut poverty by 50 % by 2015 , by increasing compulsory schooling , by significantly reducing child mortality rates , and by implementing a raft of social welfare measures with a view to effectively achieving this objective .
the concerted actions of the united nations institutions have played an important role here , as has the bretton woods system .
this new role for international organisations on development issues is also a good reason for us to consider the role of the european union in this context .
the portuguese presidency has highlighted the need for the european union to combine its highly important international role as the main donor with a leading role - and a more active one - in this movement to reform international development policies , and to create greater scope for coordination , in particular with the united nations system and the bretton woods system .
if we are to strengthen the european union ' s role in international development policies , we believe that it is basically necessary to take three kinds of action .
the main conclusions emphasised the need for a more coherent eu policy and a more strategic overall eu approach to development issues .
the key aspects were the need for greater coordination and greater complementarity between policies , the need for harmonisation and simplification of the present organisational framework for the union ' s present cooperation policies , the need to make the eu ' s aid management more efficient and , in particular , to review its mechanisms for intervention , and also the need to reinforce the assessment system and to introduce greater transparency into the process for granting aid .
firstly , we are all aware that it is not enough just to improve aid conditions and that there is a need for better coordination with other european union policies , so that development objectives can be achieved , not merely through aid and support , but also , first and foremost , through a more integrated approach to the various different policies that contribute to the objectives of development .
over the coming months , that is to say during the portuguese presidency , this debate will of course be enriched by the contributions that the commission has undertaken to present to us .
we will also have to await the outcome of the work of the intergovernmental conference as regards enlargement , to see to what extent the internal dynamics of the european union are directed towards increasing the coherence of its policies , and , as regards development in particular , to what extent it also contributes to appropriate institutional arrangements for achieving this objective .
there can be no doubt that implementing and developing all these aspects will inevitably make an important contribution to strengthening the role of development policies in the context of the european union ' s foreign policy .
there have been discussions , especially in recent months , about the role the development council could play in relation to eu policies .
so without a more active role for the development council in the overall coordination of political decision making which , although it directly impacts on the european union ' s development policy , is largely being dealt with outside this decision-making forum , it will certainly be difficult to establish a more coherent european union policy on development objectives .
there was also deep satisfaction on both sides when this was over , not just because it was over , but because we all knew that we had achieved something together , the eu and the 71 acp countries .
that is something that the world needs and is a very good signal in the framework of the whole discussion of globalisation .
we rationalise instruments and introduce a new system of rolling programming , allowing the community and the beneficiary country to regularly adjust their cooperation programme .
we enhance cooperation in all areas important to trade , including new issues such as labour standards and the linkages between environment and trade .
let me turn to some of the more important points .
firstly the agreement on political issues .
secondly , a new procedure has been drawn up for cases of violations of human rights , democratic principles and the rule of law .
in comparison with the current procedure , the new one puts more emphasis on the responsibility of the state concerned and allows for greater flexibility in the consultation process , with a view to conducting an effective dialogue leading to measures to be taken to redress the situation .
in cases of special urgency involving serious violations of one of these essential elements , measures will be taken immediately and the other party will be notified .
thirdly , the eu and the acp have also agreed on a new specific procedure to be launched in serious cases of corruption .
this is a real innovation , both in the eu / acp context and in international relations in general .
this procedure will be applied , not only in cases of corruption involving edf money , but also more widely in any country where the ec is financially involved and where corruption constitutes an obstacle to development .
by adopting such a provision in the partnership agreement , the eu and the acp states are together sending a clear and positive signal that will doubtless be appreciated by european taxpayers and hopefully also by european investors .
we have reached a balanced agreement on cooperation in this area .
this new dimension to the partnership agreement reflects the guidelines espoused by the eu in accordance with the treaty of amsterdam and with the conclusions of the european council in tampere in finland in october 1999 .
the european union undertakes to develop and implement an immigration and asylum policy founded on the principle of partnership with the originating countries and regions .
the agreement concluded with the acp countries paves the way for new initiatives , in particular on the rights of third country citizens within the eu , and measures facilitating their integration .
the eu and the acp states will initiate the process aimed ultimately at defining , within a framework to be negotiated with each and every acp country , the ways and means of repatriating immigrants illegally present on the territories of each party .
this also covers persons from third countries and stateless persons .
the agreement also offers a good framework to underpin the mutually reinforcing effects of trade cooperation and development aid .
we have agreed on a process to establish new trading arrangements that will pursue trade liberalisation between the parties and to formulate provisions on trade-related matters .
this two-year preparatory period will be used to strengthen regional integration processes and the acp countries ' capacity to conduct trade negotiations .
we will take account of the economic and social constraints of the acp countries in two ways : firstly , through human and social development policies to accompany economic and trade reforms and , secondly , by helping the acp states to become active players in the international economic and trade system through capacity-building and cooperation in multilateral forums .
this approach will lead us to a fully wto compatible regime .
economic operators will be more inclined to establish closer relations with their acp partners .
another important aspect is the improvement of the eu ' s trade regime for all least-developed countries , 39 of which are actually in the acp group .
this process will take place in the coming five years so that , by 2005 , the ldcs ' exporters will have free access for essentially all their products on the eu market .
it is based on the principle of reconciling the need to maintain a substantial amount of financial resources in a period of limited official development assistance budgets with the need to make community aid more effective .
the eu is committed to mobilising these remaining balances , plus the new edf resources , over a seven-year period , that is to say , before the entry into force of the next financial protocol .
there is a very real link between the reform process in the commission as such , and our ability to deliver on the ground which is the basis of the deal with the acp countries .
the marginalisation of many economies , increased poverty in the world , the need for better management of environmental interdependence , the destabilising effects of migration and the worrying consequences of armed conflicts and pandemic diseases are all major concerns .
this is due to the complexity of our own structures , but also to very real inconsistencies between sector policies and interests in the member states .
in order to face and solve these problems the community needs to engage in an effective dialogue with member states and parliament .
it is absolutely crucial that we tackle the coherence issue in a realistic and pragmatic way , which means holding the debate in the appropriate institutional framework , that is , the council and parliament .
the lack of concerted action among the 15 member states themselves and between them and the community also needs to be addressed .
when we talk policies nowadays , we engage in a process of convergence .
it is important to find flexible mechanisms that accommodate a division of labour according to the expertise and capacity of the various donors in each developing country .
also , our presence on the ground : basically , i find the biggest value we represent is the very fact that being a successful regional cooperation endeavour ourselves , we are seen as a neutral , welcome partner for this experiment world-wide - something which nobody else can claim to be .
it is vital to make community policy more effective and to develop a more operational strategic framework .
we will launch a broad and open consultation process in order to get the views of all the different parties interested .
this problem has been highlighted on several occasions , to whit in 1992 , in 1995 and 1997 .
a number of developing countries grow sugar cane for sugar production .
article 177 specifies these objectives as " sustainable economic and social development of the developing countries , and more particularly the most disadvantaged among them " , the " smooth and gradual integration of the developing countries into the world economy and the campaign against poverty in the developing countries " .
this is why we urge the commission , in this sharp and clear resolution , to develop specific instruments .
the crisis in last year ' s commission has been solved today , but the commission must now produce a policy in which we get full support for a coherent approach , which , no doubt , the entire parliament will soon demand in the resolution .
the first area of incoherence is the lack of consultation between the union and the member states on individual cooperation policies .
the second area of incoherence is aid to authoritarian regimes .
the third area of incoherence is human rights .
and yet , at the same time , we allow the arms trade to proliferate and do not even attempt to limit the trade in the most atrocious forms of arms such as anti-personnel mines .
nor do we do much to really prevent human rights violations .
the fourth area of incoherence in the european union ' s cooperation policy is this : how do you expect to help development by pillaging the natural resources of the people you are helping .
i will not even mention oil ; we are all aware of the policy of groups such as elf and total in africa .
similarly , during the wto negotiations , at a time when , to quote the second paragraph of the schwaiger report , " the current trade liberalisation process has not yet brought significant benefits for large parts of the population of developing countries , especially the poor " , the european union continues to defend the liberalisation of trade and intends to put an end to the system of favouring acp countries , albeit with a transitional period of several years , instead of strengthening it , especially for the poorest countries .
the eighth area of incoherence is of a political and practical nature .
i say it again , the european union ' s cooperation and development policy is not coherent .
and on behalf of the green group i call on parliament , the institutions and the commission to make a joint effort , at long last , to put some coherence into our policy .
however , i would also like to add that any analysis , no matter how superficial , inevitably leads us to the conclusion that something - or even a great deal - is amiss with north-south relations , including those between the european union and the less developed countries .
a new agreement has been reached with the acp countries .
but it was above all the result of a stronger acp group , which obviously found new courage following the events in seattle .
lastly , we need to go further in our development aid policies towards developing countries .
in any case , they are known all too well to the producers in the acp countries who are affected by these measures and who have to destroy their products because they cannot compete with eu-subsidised products .
add to this the fact that the agricultural sector accounts for 34 % of the developing countries ' gross national product , compared with 5.3 % in the eu .
the prime minister of the united kingdom and his foreign secretary yesterday made statements on their policy in regard to the voting system within the council .
it is quite obvious to me , as someone who specialises in development policy , that there are many areas where lack of coherence is dramatically affecting developing nations .
however , i remind this house that , back in june 1997 , a council resolution acknowledged the fact that there is a serious lack of coherence in some of the eu policies in relation to its development cooperation policy .
we still await the first report , and that is why i believe this debate was premature , as the commission had little to say on coherence this morning .
members of this house will have differing views , even within the same political parties , depending on ( a ) which country they come from or ( b ) which committee they sit on .
remember too , some countries blocked an agreement with south african trade for four years .
if we simply import raw materials from these developing countries , rather than allowing them the add-on value of producing their finished articles in their own country , we deny them the very poverty-eradication that we have set as our top principle in helping developing nations .
there is a natural resistance in the developing world to anything that would lower standards of living and create further unemployment .
mr president , this morning ' s debate is very important .
i therefore thank the commission and the council for having made a statement on the coherence of community policies in relation to development , because this demonstrates a will to make policy in this area more effective .
the result of this absurd game is not zero , but rather a minus number , as a consequence of the material , financial and human resources thrown away in a pointless enterprise .
i am therefore glad that the commission and the council are once again taking an interest in the coherence of community policies , and that , together with complementarity between national and community policies and coordination between the services of the commission , they intend to shape the policy on cooperation in accordance with the development of the european union .
both the commission and the portuguese presidency of the council state , in their respective working programmes , that they wish to give coherence to those policies which have a very important impact on the developing countries , but they do not specify concrete measures aimed at introducing this coherence .
for example , the commission , in its long term guidelines , says that the objective of sustainable development must be based on a strong sense of solidarity , supported by a commercial policy which takes common interests into account .
the commission is addressing a very important area , that is , commercial policy .
however , this parliament wishes to add policies to aid development , agriculture , fisheries policy , immigration , our position in international financial institutions , the common foreign and security policy and aid for structural reform .
let us hope - and we do hope - to be guided by the winds of change created by the intergovernmental conference , the reform of the commission - which will also affect the development services - , this new legislature and the prospects for enlargement , to perfect a more coherent political union .
we therefore hope that the commission , in the report it is going to present to us on global policy , will also address the question of coherence as an integral element in the efficient use of community resources and the specific management of public interests .
let us use this not only for the benefit of our own populations but also for that of the developing countries .
this kind of agricultural policy does not just harm the small and medium-sized producers in these countries but has the self-same effect on producers in the european union .
when i see , mr president-in-office of the council amado , that a country such as brazil , which has a surface area of over 8 million square kilometres , now has to import basic foodstuffs , and that almost 40 million people are still undernourished and starving , then i am bound to say that this also has something to do with the way we pursue our agricultural policy , inasmuch as we produce our beef mountains with the soya from this country , only to store them in cold-storage again !
what will also be of decisive importance in the future is the kind of policy the european union intends to pursue , which will be of benefit to the countries of the south in the world trade organisation in particular , how it intends to set about giving these countries a voice , an appropriate amount of say , and of course , how the european union intends to open up its markets to these countries .
votes are often taken in the most diverse committees , as well as here in plenary sitting , which in itself is not coherent and does not accord with the tenets of development policy .
there is an urgent need for more coherence , and this does not just apply to the european commission , and to the union , but to us here in this chamber too !
as various members have already commented , we often encounter situations where there is an enormous contradiction between our intentions in terms of development and cooperation policy and the damage we inflict with our other sectoral policies , whose objectives run counter to development in those countries .
we obviously know that , even within any one country , there are always contradictions between various policies .
i believe that it is both proper and fitting to set up a centre for monitoring this coherence between community policies and development and cooperation policy , and that this monitoring centre ' s sphere of activity should not be limited just to community policies , but should also cover member states ' actions and policies , including the actions of economic groups , which i think are also important .
this monitoring centre should draw up an annual report on developments in these policies and on their impact and interaction .
our objective of minimising contradictions between development and cooperation policy and other policies has to be a valid objective , not merely within the european union , but also at world level , given the increasing globalisation of the economy .
mr president , the director-general of the dg for development has said that to produce a report on coherence of eu policies with development policies , before this spring ' s paper on development policy itself , is like putting the cart before the horse .
take the new chocolate directive , which shows that eu countries spend more on chocolate every year than on development aid .
we are , at the same time , negotiating joint ventures allowing increased access for europe ' s large-scale fishing vessels in developing country waters at the expense of 190 million small-scale fish workers in those countries world-wide .
in other words , when eu commercial interests are concerned , poverty considerations go out of the window .
in the stance that we took at seattle , why such a silence on the eu ' s failure to implement the trade concessions for developing countries already agreed in the gatt , including for the crucial textile sector ?
i think that the cause should first and foremost be sought in the lack of clear agricultural policy in the various developing countries , barring a few exceptions .
it is up to the commission ' s delegations in the developing countries to assume a leading role in the development of this political dialogue and to ensure that all countries follow this line of approach .
finally , i wonder whether the funds could not be put to better use .
every year , i notice in the budget of the commission and in the european development fund , that they are far behind in spending the funds .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , we are in actual fact holding a debate amongst the converted , which is a pity .
one thing shocked me in the speech of the president-in-office of the council .
we ought to seize this opportunity and bring the last colonial episode in africa to an end .
however , the level of aid is only one of many instruments which significantly influence the development of poor countries .
finally , parliament recommends , in paragraph 6 of the draft resolution , that a working party should be established in order to bring about coherence .
yet we might consider the rate of economic progress and the rate of eliminating poverty in countries such as india and tanzania over the 40 or 50 years since they became independent .
it is quite clear that a lack of coherence of development policy with trade policy diminishes our development efforts and must also diminish the political regard of the developing countries for europe and our fine words .
mr president , in the last couple of days we have heard fine words about the need for greater coherence , coordination and effectiveness in the external aid programmes of the community and of the member states .
the member states have spent similar amounts .
mr nielson identified the problems of lack of concerted action and the need for better complementarity with member states .
the commission needs to carry out internal organisational changes , strengthen the coherence and effectiveness of its actions , ideally with a properly resourced central mine action policy cell .
mr president , commissioner nielson , the conclusion of the new acp-eu convention is an important step towards greater coherence .
and it is to be welcomed that criteria such as human rights , democracy , rule of law , and good governance are more firmly anchored in this new treaty than they were previously , and that earlier colonial relations no longer shape most of our relations to quite the same extent , rather , we now set greater store by these political criteria in this respect .
nonetheless , these are important criteria for the european union .
there is no coherence because there is still no effective coordination with the member states and there are some projects being carried out by the member states and the european union in the developing countries which are very much at odds with one another .
mr president-in-office of the council , if in future you succeed in making this eur 13.5 billion subject to the supervision of the parliamentary committee on budgetary control , and to bodies such as olaf , then i believe you will raise the level of acceptability .
in our view , cooperation is , and should remain , an intergovernmental exercise .
and let me say in passing , it is even more astonishing that the council allowed it to .
as a result , we are now in the absurd position of negotiating from a position of weakness on vital aspects such as wine and agricultural production within the framework of an agreement which we have already signed .
it is proof , as if we still needed it , of the fact that immature diplomacy , which defends no interests , unless of course they are individual interests , and is caught between the dogma of free trade and pressure groups and more or less friendly ngos , is not just inefficient , it is positively dangerous .
nowadays , let us face it , the joint assembly is seen as an obstacle to free international trade by the dogmatisers in geneva and washington .
it was a chance to reiterate that our original and exemplary mode of cooperation with the southern countries should be developed and strengthened .
secondly , it will be important to approach development policies from a different angle in this context , taking advantage of their capacity for correcting imbalances and reducing inequality .
everyone recognises , indeed this was the theme of today ' s debate , that , if the european union is to play a more active and leading role in development policies at world level , it will have no choice but to enhance the coherence of its own various development-related policies .
finally , i would like to emphasise that it is also important - and this is one of the priorities of the portuguese presidency ' s programme - to note the view that it is necessary to recognise the value of development in the european union ' s policies , and in particular in the context of its foreign policy .
we believe that this is absolutely vital , failing which we will be unable to take any consistent action as regards the coherence of policies , and we cannot do this without giving development policies their rightful place as an instrument for upholding the principles and values underpinning europe ' s status in the international system .
i have given you a statement on behalf of the commission which i think provides a useful background to this discussion .
we will furnish more detailed material relating directly to all the issues concerning coherence .
i have no doubt that as a result of the increasing political attention attached to these problems - something which has clearly been reflected in the debate today - it will be easier for the commission and the dg on development to bring coherence to the forefront of our working agenda .
this also calls for the introduction of further new mechanisms in the commission system which may very well include , as suggested by some of the political groups in parliament , the setting up of a special intra-service working group and the establishment of a kind of coherence watch in the commission .
this is true in our part of the world , but our partners and beneficiaries in africa have a slightly different perspective .
other issues have been mentioned : cattle-farming in namibia , tomatoes and milk powder in the caribbean .
i am committed to try to create a balance in all these issues and i would mention the achievement of the trade development and cooperation agreement with south africa .
finally , i thank you again for this debate .
we will come back again with material on these issues , because these problems , in one way or another , are here to stay , simply because development cooperation represents basically doing something in the world that is different from taking care of traditionally-defined trade interests , etc .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
i have received eight motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 37 ( 2 ) of the rules of procedure .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12.00 p.m .
next session of un human rights commission the next item is the statement by the council on eu priorities for the next session of the un human rights commission on 20 march 2000 .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , as you know , the european union played an active role in the 55th session of the human rights commission held in geneva in march and april 1999 .
for the first time , the european union tabled a resolution on the death penalty , which was enormously successful , and led work on a resolution concerning children ' s rights , which was a joint initiative with the latin american group of countries .
in particular , as agreed at the human rights council group on 9 february 2000 , the european union intends to table draft resolutions on the israeli settlements , iran , iraq , sudan , the democratic republic of the congo , burma / myanmar , a draft chairman ' s statement on colombia , and , possibly , on east timor , together with a draft statement on the situation in various countries .
the european union will continue discussions on preparations for the 56th session of the human rights commission at the next meeting of the human rights group in march .
in particular , there will be a discussion of the possibility of tabling a draft resolution on the death penalty .
to date , the group has not reached agreement on the strategy to be adopted in this respect , and in particular with regard to formulating a compromise to be tabled in the last resort in case of any amendments to the contrary , including article 2 ( 7 ) of the charter of the united nations , which refers to sovereignty .
we have tried to reach agreement in advance on a compromise text , in view of the difficulties that arose at the 1999 session of the third committee of the united nations general assembly , at which the member states failed to agree on an amendment introducing a reference to article 2 ( 7 ) into the draft resolution sponsored by the european union on the death penalty .
the european union voted against that motion .
the european union ' s position on the approach to be adopted towards china in the human rights commission was confirmed at the general affairs council on 21 march 1999 : there was no european union initiative on china nor was agreement reached to co-sponsor a resolution on china , but an eu vote against the no-action motion .
the united states of america will be tabling a draft resolution on china at the 56th session of the human rights commission and are putting pressure on the european union to support this draft resolution .
it is therefore important this year , too , that the countries of the european union should reach a consensus on the position to take in any vote on the resolution .
in this context it is important to note that the european union regularly opposes requests by china that the human rights dialogue should automatically rule out tabling a resolution at the human rights commission in geneva .
the european union unequivocally considers that although it is a very valuable instrument for exchanging views and for taking note of the overall position of the other party , the dialogue should also yield concrete results on the ground , and when this does not happen it may be necessary to present a resolution to the human rights commission , potentially whilst the dialogue is continuing .
the european union also regularly informs china that the human rights commission is the appropriate body for considering human rights issues , and whether or not it agrees with this initiative , this is in any case legitimate from this point of view .
the next human rights dialogue will take place on 25 february in lisbon , and will include seminars on legal issues and on women ' s rights , and it is expected that representatives from the academic world and from civil society will take part .
the next human rights seminar will be organised by the portuguese presidency in may 2000 , and , during the last round of the dialogue in october 1999 , the chinese side accepted the european union ' s proposal for technical assistance to support the process of ratifying the united nations international pact on economic , social and cultural rights and the united nations ' international pact on civil and political rights , both of which have been signed by the chinese government .
the presidency will also present to the chinese authorities a list of individual cases on which it intends to express its serious concern .
discussions within the european union about the situation in china following the outcome of the dialogue rounds in 1999 have led the european union to decide to express its concern about human rights violations in china more firmly ; the same applies to the absence of concrete outcomes from the dialogue , while recognising the positive steps that china has made on the international stage .
it was decided that the dialogue should continue , but in a more targeted and effective way , given that china has agreed with the european union ' s proposal to restructure the dialogue by means of better use of experts and to establish a closer link with the seminars .
lastly , during the next human rights commission there will also be a debate on rationalising the work of the commission itself .
as the presidency said , much remains to be done , despite the understandable request by parliament and many ngos that the european union should set out its position well in advance of the geneva session .
that does not suggest any lack of commitment to the improvement of human rights but it does indicate the usual concern to get our approach right so that we really make a difference .
spurred on by amnesty international and others , one of the first decisions i took as governor of hong kong was to abolish the death penalty .
last year ' s debate in new york on sovereignty and humanitarian intervention was such a sensitive topic that it influenced all other issues .
the debate in geneva , however , is more focused on human rights issues .
secondly , cuba .
we are also worried by the recent increase in the number of political detentions .
we are monitoring the human rights situation through the reports of ngos and the work of our human rights working group based in the eu embassies in havana .
we want to encourage a process of transition to democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
so what should be our attitude towards a geneva resolution this year ?
secondly , we will all want to take proper account of what has actually been happening in china in recent months , for instance , the heavy sentences imposed on democracy campaigners , the detention and recent punishments meted out to members of christian churches and the arrests and sentences of the members of falun gong .
chinese leaders are in no doubt about our position on all these issues and on developments in tibet .
while we all know that for many people in china there has been a real long-term improvement in their economic prospects and their social and economic liberties , there is a dark side to the picture as well .
naturally any dialogue as complex as the one on human rights is going to be a long-term process , but i wish i could point to more real gains .
the next dialogue in lisbon on 25 february will be an important test .
i am grateful to the house for its concern about human rights around the world , and particularly in china .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 17 december 1999 , and i would like once again to wish you a happy new year in the hope that you enjoyed a pleasant festive period .
the cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes comes before parliament on thursday and contains a proposal in paragraph 6 that a form of quota penalties should be introduced for countries which fail to meet their fleet reduction targets annually .
i want to know whether one can raise an objection of that kind to what is merely a report , not a legislative proposal , and whether that is something i can competently do on thursday .
thank you , mr segni , i shall do so gladly .
it is the case of alexander nikitin .
we know , and we have stated as much in very many resolutions indeed , including specifically during the last plenary part-session of last year , that this is not solely a legal case and that it is wrong for alexander nikitin to be accused of criminal activity and treason because of our involvement as the beneficiaries of his findings .
madam president , i would firstly like to compliment you on the fact that you have kept your word and that , during this first part-session of the new year , the number of television channels in our offices has indeed increased considerably .
agenda the next item is the verification of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the conference of presidents at its meeting of 13 january pursuant to rule 110 of the rules of procedure .
to this end , i would like to remind you of the resolution of 15 september , which recommended that the proposal be presented as soon as possible .
mr baron crespo , you were unable to attend the conference of presidents last thursday .
we have confidence in the commission and in romano prodi and , after a difficult procedure , as everyone knows , the vast majority of our group supported the vote of confidence in romano prodi and the commission .
we believe , however , that the commission 's strategic plan needs to be debated within a proper procedural framework , not only on the basis of an oral statement here in the european parliament , but also on the basis of a document which is adopted in the commission and which describes this programme over the five-year period .
we have said , very well , if the commission does not wish to introduce the 2000 programme as early as january then we will do it in february .
that is why we would recommend - and it is my impression that the commission is also open to this idea - that we hold the debate on the commission 's long-term programme up to the year 2005 in february - and i hope that the commission will agree on a programme before then which it will propose to us - and that , at the same time , in february we also hold the debate on the commission 's legislative programme for the year 2000 .
therefore , madam president , i would like to repeat that the commission has debated the action plan for the next five years and , when parliament decides , - this week if that is the decision - we are prepared to come and explain the programme for the next five years and , next month , the programme for 2000 , which is what we fully agreed upon .
thank you , mr poettering .
i therefore repeat the proposal that this oral question to the commission and the council should be retained so that we can find out , once and for all , the positions of these two bodies regarding the proposal which is relatively modest but which would give a clear message to public opinion , particularly after the tide of feeling generated by the failure of the seattle conference .
secondly , by adopting this directive we achieve a ) an increase in safety when dangerous goods are both transported and transhipped ; b ) a reduction in distortions of competition resulting from wide variations in national training structures and training costs and c ) equal opportunities for safety advisers on the european labour market .
the report looks at the issue of harmonising the examination requirements for safety advisors working in the areas of transportation of dangerous goods by road , rail and inland waterway .
the rapporteur has pointed out to the house that in its common position the council has accepted six of parliament 's ten amendments put forward at first reading and that the substance of parliament 's other amendments has been retained .
my group will therefore support the common position and looks forward to the enactment of the legislation which will provide us with yet another tool in our fight to make transport in the european union as safe as possible .
madam president , i would like to make a few comments .
if we look at the situation where safety advisers are concerned , in a number of countries it is compulsory to employ such safety advisers in companies as from 1 january of this year .
the process of increasing safety margins and safety guarantees in transport is a process which must be improved day by day .
finally , i would like to say that we have to consider safety in all types of transport .
the debate is closed .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road , which entered into force on 1 january 1997 , contains a number of transitional provisions which are only valid for a limited period of time , the term of validity being linked to the completion of specific standardisation work by the cen , that is the european committee for standardisation .
it merely prolongs transitional rules by postponing deadlines , deletes provisions which are no longer applicable , and lays down the procedures for a ) carrying out the ad hoc transportation of dangerous goods and b ) enacting less stringent national regulations , in particular for the transport of very small amounts of dangerous goods within strictly defined local areas .
a final amendment is intended to ensure that tanks and tankers put into service between 1 january 1997 and the entry into force of this directive may continue to be used provided that they have been constructed and maintained in accordance with it .
i hope my proposal will be taken into consideration in tomorrow ' s vote .
that is why we can only hope - and we should resolve all of this this week - that , in 2001 , we will finally have community regulations for the transport of dangerous goods by road so that we have a degree of legal certainty here and also so that our roads are a good deal safer .
the reason mr koch produced his sound report was because the work in the cen and within the united nations economic commission was proceeding none too expeditiously .
i would like to ask the vice-president if she is in a position to tell us today what the state of play is with regard to the efforts towards harmonisation being made by these two organisations , and whether the eu is in a position to hasten these harmonisation efforts , in accordance with principles that are as simple as possible .
a moment ago , mr vatanen spoke to us of lower temperatures , not of 20 degrees below zero , but of 40 degrees below zero .
we therefore accept the four amendments which have been proposed .
the debate is closed .
whilst , in the fifth report on the situation in the regions , unemployment was seven times higher in the poor regions than in the wealthy regions , the sixth report is already talking in terms of it being eight times higher , despite the fact that european structural funds are pouring into the regions .
hence , it will , of course , come as no surprise to anyone that the very preamble to the new structural funds regulation places great emphasis on the call for the funds to be implemented more efficiently and in a more concentrated manner in order to achieve the european objectives of high employment levels and sustainable development , to name but a few .
i may have my doubts as to whether this indicative instrument will actually succeed in achieving efficiency and increased concentration and in actually putting the european objectives into practice , but it is a fact that the guidelines will be of central importance to the negotiations for the community development programme .
mr president , our committee views these issues very differently and , to start , i will speak from the point of view of research .
i would like to draw people 's attention to amendments nos 1 and 2 which were agreed by the committee on employment and social affairs but not accepted by the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
these amendments deal with the social economy and the need to provide social risk capital and support financially local schemes to develop employment opportunities and strengthen social cohesion .
in the past , this parliament has viewed the social economy as an important potential provider of employment .
but the lack of specific guidelines here is particularly to be regretted , as the idea of linking social fund assistance to the employment strategy will be put into effect for the first time during the 2000-2006 programme .
agriculture only provides 5.5 % of employment in the union .
for this reason , one of the most important and essential objectives which we should set in the european union is to make efforts to create new jobs in rural areas , outside of the agricultural sector , in sectors such as rural tourism , sport , culture , heritage conservation , the conversion of businesses , new technologies , services , etc .
however , even though the role of agriculture is not exclusive , it is still essential , not only to prevent economic and social disintegration and the creation of ghost towns , but also because farmers play a fundamental role in managing the land , in preserving biodiversity and in protecting the environment .
it is important to prioritise general criteria for land planning and demographic equilibrium , and to bear in mind the conclusions of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the five fundamental issues , which have been only partly taken up by the committee on transport , regional policy and tourism in its points 16 and 17 .
if they do not , if businesspeople feel marginalised , if entrepreneurs cannot take part , not only in managing but also in receiving these funds , we will have missed an opportunity to attain our objectives more rapidly .
our group emphasises the importance of the principle of subsidiarity , the responsibility of member states and the role of local players in drafting and implementing programmes .
mr president , commissioner , as proof that this parliament has not yet overcome its role as a consultative and subordinate institution , the excellent report by a fellow member of my group , elisabeth schroedter , has not been able to reach plenary sitting because the plans for regional development for the period 2000-2006 for objective 1 regions have been sitting in the commission ' s offices for several months .
we need to consider it together , so that the new objective 1 programmes and the plans for regional development , which have been drafted before the directives come into force , can be submitted for revision and proper assessment .
while urban renewal in our cities is very important we must always strike a balance in our policies between promoting rural development and improving the lives of city dwellers .
the structural funds have played a key role in the development both of urban and rural parts of peripheral countries , mainly through the upgrading of roads , water treatment and related transport networks .
key eu programmes between 1989 , 1993 , 1994 and 1999 have certainly helped to improve the economic competitiveness of peripheral countries and objective 1 regions within europe .
in conclusion , while key infrastructure projects have been supported by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund , we should remember that the european social fund has played a very important role in helping the less well-off in our society .
consequently , i feel we must look to the future and establish guidelines for the mid-term review in 2003 , and thus have an influence on the second phase of programming set to follow 2003 .
the first is the harmonisation of national development policies and regional development policies .
finally , in this time of natural disasters , i would just like to mention the issue of the use of structural funds .
the commission , however , though bound to issue guidelines , does so only reluctantly and in a vague manner .
it is one of the steps towards a policy of employment and sustainable development .
mr president , i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work .
mr president , like my colleague mr evans , it is a particular pleasure to rise and make my first speech to this house on this very important issue , especially since i represent a part of the united kingdom , the west midlands , which has hitherto benefited from objective 2 funding in particular .
that way the much-trumpeted need for transparency in the use of these funds and the temptation to draw unnecessarily in the longer term on the local tax base in areas where such projects are located will be diminished and the european parliament will show how seriously it takes the need for such reform .
mr president , commissioner , i too would like to commend the rapporteur on her report , which is a meticulous and substantive piece of work .
however , i feel that we should be a little more concerned about the actual direction and outcome of the community ' s regional policy .
the union ' s economic and social policy is just as much to blame for that as its regional policy .
mr president , i would like to say a few words in order to highlight two points made in these reports which are of fundamental strategic importance to the way we see the union .
the first is the fundamental , central importance that we continue to give to the principle of economic and social cohesion .
we still feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the union ' s fundamental objectives .
mr president , first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur , not least for being willing to include in the report the suggestions we made .
mr president , commissioner , the guidelines are intended to help steer the member states towards achieving the reform objectives contained in the programmes .
i should be very grateful , mrs schroedter , if you would actually include this proposed amendment in the part relating to subsidiarity in your positive deliberations .
unfortunately , the excellent schroedter report did not take account of this criterion , despite the fact that there is considerable evidence to show - as we shall see later in the berend report - how , in fact , these funds are providing splendid assistance to the most backward regions in order to bridge the gulf that separates them from europe ' s most highly-developed regions .
they are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions .
it is particularly important to address those serious issues concerning urban areas , employment in rural areas , aid to agricultural regions and equal development opportunities for the islands of the european union and for the greek islands which , of course , comprise half of the islands of the union , as stipulated in article 158 of the treaty .
regarding the role and structure of these guidelines , mr hatzidakis , mrs schroedter and mrs mccarthy mentioned that the purpose of these guidelines is to assist national and regional authorities in preparing their programming strategy for each of structural fund objectives 1 , 2 and 3 as well as their links with the cohesion funds .
i myself took part in a meeting of the most remote regions on 23 november and , within the college , we considered that we would need several more weeks before being able to produce a report that dealt appropriately with the extremely serious problems and lived up to the expectations of these most remote regions .
as far as i am concerned - taking into account my own concept of the construction of europe and regional development policy in particular - this is a situation which i find unacceptable and i have every intention , as far as possible , with your support , of dedicating all the appropriations for which i am responsible to this improved social , human and territorial cohesion , particularly in order to prevent what i once called in this house a two-speed europe , a europe of wealthy districts but , at the same time , a europe of impoverished areas .
the third objective is urban and rural development , within the scope of a balanced territorial policy .
you expressed some concern about what might look like a lack of reference to this partnership , yet there is a clear reference to it on page 5 of the guidelines .
i should now like to respond briefly to a few of the comments you have made , ladies and gentlemen , and firstly on procedure .
on the subject of the role of the guidelines , mrs schroedter , you pointed out that this is the context in which guidelines on a number of european objectives , often very precise ones , should be provided .
the commission kept to the actual text of article 10 of the structural funds regulations , which stipulates that the aim of these guidelines is to provide member states with broad , indicative guidelines on relevant and agreed community policies .
you then mentioned , mrs schroedter , the section of the guidelines relating to urban and rural development , pointing out that urban development was not sufficiently taken into consideration .
it must , however , be stressed that the guidelines under discussion are related only to the structural funds , whose objectives 1 and 2 specifically adopt the diversification of rural society as a priority .
at this stage , i would simply like to say that i would like to see it integrated into the programming for objective 2 rural areas , in the way that the eaggf guidance section is for objective 1 regions .
i shall remind you that the commission is going to be approving the objective 2 zoning plans for france , sweden , austria and luxembourg tomorrow .
i feel this augurs well for effective cooperation between our two institutions , at this time when programming for the period 2000-2006 is being undertaken , good joint working practice , which is , mr hatzidakis , backed up by something i am very attentive to : observance of the code of conduct which links our two institutions .
the debate is closed .
mr president , commissioner barnier , ladies and gentlemen , the sixth periodic report contains a comprehensive and detailed description of the economic and social situation in the union ' s regions and of their development trends and represents , as i see it , a solid basis for the formulation of structural policy priorities at union level .
unfortunately , this european-wide development was due , in the main , to an increase in productivity and only partly to an increase in the level of employment .
a very important point to my mind .
we call upon those member states that have not yet submitted a satisfactory map of development regions to do so immediately and , of course , we expect the commission to examine with due haste the operational programmes for the regions for the new support period 2000 to 2006 in the light of the results of the sixth periodic report , and to do everything possible to enable this support period to commence without delay in those areas where it is needed and in the proper manner .
mr president , commissioner , this sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the european union constitutes a milestone in the analysis of regional data and highlights the progress made in this area since the issue of the fifth periodic report .
i consider , however , that the mention of any real convergence of average regional development levels in europe offers a somewhat over-simplified view of the situation and , unfortunately , this is often the message taken up in the press and in some speeches .
in this respect , i am pleased to see that the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism has adopted one of my amendments calling on the commission to devote a specific chapter in its next report on cohesion to the special case of the most remote regions and , more specifically , to consideration of the impact of the measures shortly to be adopted under new article 299 ( 2 ) of the treaty of amsterdam .
the first is that important advances have been made in regional and social cohesion throughout the union and that the community funds have been a major , although not decisive , factor in reducing regional inequalities .
it is therefore necessary to link structural financing more closely to job creation .
thus , mr president , i ask my fellow members to approve this report and i ask the commission , as other speakers have done , to take good note of the conclusions of their sixth periodic report when they address the programming for the period 2000-2006 .
mr president , commissioner , i would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for having taken due account of the proposed amendments while the committee was debating it .
our group is in favour of adopting this report .
mr president , commissioner , the european union ' s regional policy has , until now , not been able to interpret , in any significant way , the existing differences in our inhabitants ' incomes .
this does not mean that i do not see the need for competitiveness , particularly as i myself am an entrepreneur in an objective 1 region , that is in brandenburg in the federal republic of germany , and am only too aware of the problems and concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises .
the key goal of the structural funds is to strengthen social and economic cohesion between the regions within the european union .
mr president , it therefore seems worthwhile and necessary to focus attention on both national and regional authorities , especially in connection with boosting employment .
since it is the declared aim of all politicians throughout europe to reduce unemployment , then one must pose the critical question as to whether the policy employed is the right one or whether it would not be more appropriate to boost the competitiveness of the regions by appropriate measures such as increased support for research and development , improvements in infrastructure and raising the level of training .
mr president , commissioner , my thanks go to the rapporteur for handling this very important report , because developments in the social and economic situation will decide to what extent the citizens of europe will judge that we have been successful in our work .
in reunion , for example , the rate is 37 % .
the commission document expected to be ready in december 1999 was delayed until january , then february , and the initial thinking does not fill me with much optimism .
i should also like to make a few comments , firstly , mr berend , regarding the assessment you have made of this sixth periodic report .
fifthly , the importance and role of small and medium-sized businesses .
in relation to this , i must inform the european parliament of my intention to organise halfway through the year 2000 a seminar with national and regional authorities on this question of the evaluation of procedures for the exchange of good practice in the management of structural funds .
i have , however , taken note , particularly with regard to the most remote regions , mrs sudre , mr fruteau , and mr nogueira roman too , that your observation is that there is still much to do - and this is my third point regarding the policy - in terms of improving employment take-up aspects , the fight against social exclusion , which is particularly serious and intolerable in many of our regions , and the integration of women and young people into the labour market .
the debate is closed .
the second point i would like to make - and which i would have wished to make yesterday before the vote - is that this parliament , as other speakers remarked yesterday , can only really have an effect if it works in close cooperation and synergy with the european commission .
there needs firstly to be clarity between all of the groups of this house and then between this house and the commission .
thank you very much , mr cox .
the report is hereby withdrawn from the agenda .
not all national authorities , in particular the courts , are in a position as yet to fulfil the role the commission has in mind for them when it comes to the application of the competition rules .
secondly , the national courts will be empowered to implement articles 81 ( 1 ) , 82 and 86 in accordance with the current administration of justice .
nonetheless , it is still extremely important for the commission to support the national authorities and courts with group exemption regulations , guidelines and notices .
furthermore , cooperation between the national authorities and the commission , as well as amongst the national authorities themselves , must be strengthened .
the decentralisation proposed by the commission accords with the principle of subsidiarity , which has , in fact , now been firmly established in the treaty .
finally , i would like to say that the competition policy reform we are introducing here is a necessity and that it is going to be absolutely necessary , in this context , to clarify that the european union ' s competition policy is an essential pre-requisite to the success of a social market economy .
i want to make it quite clear that in this specific case i personally consider the commission ' s proposal to be wrong and feel that it remains to be seen as to whether we are truly justified in using the term " modernisation " to describe the content of articles 81 and 82 of the white paper , or whether in this case it would be more appropriate to use the expression " retrograde step " .
however , we are also discussing the aid report today and the general competition report for 1998 , and my contribution to this joint debate relates to the latter .
but , of course , both the competition report and the aid report share common ground in this white paper .
indeed , it is not just about modernisation of community law , more than anything it is about transparency of decisions taken in individual cases , about the possibility of decisions actually being able to implement decisions , for the european competition policy will be dependent on the population ' s acceptance , together with that of the political bodies and enterprises concerned .
only , without transparency there will be no acceptance , indeed there can be no modernisation without transparency .
therefore , i would urge the council and the intergovernmental conference to introduce the codecision procedure into legislation in this area .
it is certainly possible , indeed it must be feasible for state aid to be given to small and medium-sized enterprises involved in research and development for the purpose of educating them in regional and environmental policy .
the commission report is essentially a descriptive report detailing the development of state aid in the manufacturing sector and certain other sectors , according to various typologies , such as the method of financing and the objectives pursued .
let me refer you to the explanatory statement for the quantitative aspects of the report and simply mention at this point that the annual level of state aid , on average , for the period under review , is in the order of eur 95 billion , corresponding to a reduction in the order of 13 % in relation to the period 1993-1995 , a reduction which is essentially due to a reduction in aid in the federal republic of germany .
the commission can only collate and analyse the data provided by the member states .
it is therefore down to the states and regions to ensure the quality of the data provided , and our committee considers that additional efforts must be made in this respect .
it is in this spirit that our parliamentary committee for example , has championed the longstanding idea of a public register of state aid , accessible via the internet .
having better , more detailed information available , particularly with regard to the objectives pursued and the results recorded , must make it possible for the european commission to itself proceed or to commission in a regular manner studies of the social and economic evaluation of national and regional state aid policies .
and insofar as such studies already exist , to publish more openly its own comments with regard to the objectives of the treaties , which are not only to ensure the competitivity of the european economy , but also sustainable development and economic and social cohesion .
by stressing , primarily , the quality of the information provided , our debate in committee , and hence the report which it is my honour to present to you , avoided a simplistic response in the form of an a priori statement that the level of state aid was , in absolute terms , either too high or not high enough .
most committee members have sought rather to find a balance between , on the one hand , the need to see that both states and businesses comply with the competition rules and , on the other hand , acknowledgement of the value of such aid with a view to contributing to the objectives of the treaty , particularly , as i have said already , as regards sustainable development , research and development and economic and social cohesion .
this being the case , various amendments to the rapporteur ' s initial draft report were adopted in committee , particularly highlighting the need for effective reimbursement of aid found to be illegal as well as the establishment of a league table of results .
most of them are an expression of the political differences among ourselves regarding the appropriateness and effectiveness of state aid , in view of the inadequacies , acknowledged or not , of private investment alone , the market failures or inadequacies of the market .
there is in particular one amendment , let me point out , concerning the energy sector , which , in my capacity as rapporteur , i see as particularly important .
i should like to conclude this presentation , commissioner , by stressing two things : firstly , a concern of the members of the committee and , secondly , a demand of our committee .
the concern involves the pre-accession process for the countries of central and eastern europe , in terms of competition policy and state aid .
this is undoubtedly a complex issue , and one where we should like to see the commission informing us of the latest development in the matter , particularly in terms of the capacity of the economies involved in the accession process to comply with competition rules and , as far as state aid is concerned , the need , in all probability , to have specific rules on state aid used to assist restructuring of their sectors .
and finally , in conclusion , our demand regarding the future responsibilities of the european parliament in the matters we are discussing , competition policy and state aid , in the context of the intergovernmental conference .
there were a total of 27 cases in 1998 and the commission submitted its own report on these .
as in other sectors , the general ban on state aid according to article 87 ( 1 ) of the ec treaty also applies to the iron and steel industry .
under article 88 , the commission is obliged to supervise state aid .
in 1998 , the largest case concerned the supply of company capital totalling eur 540 million to the preussag in germany .
the rules pertaining to the steel industry were drawn up on 18 december 1996 .
these stipulate that state aid can only be awarded to the steel industry in particular , precisely-defined cases i.e .
those involving aid for research and development , aid for environmental protection , social security to ease the closure of steelworks and aid to help non-competitive enterprises cease trading altogether .
the commission will be called upon , in a report that has yet to be compiled for the year 1999 , to give a detailed explanation of its active role in the elaboration of restructuring plans and approved exemptions , thus enabling a proper assessment of the overall situation to be made .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the internal market is not complete .
in fact , competition policy and consumer policy belong together .
the internal market is the basis for our work .
parliament and the commission can together increase their efforts to achieve an effective competition policy and so create new opportunities and new resources for our citizens .
however i believe that we should use this opportunity for europe to set down a marker for less red tape .
the second point relates to the retrodisplacement of law enforcement .
my second point relates to discussion about competition and the social market economy , although i am not going to talk about market failure just now .
mr president , commissioner , i am speaking on behalf of my fellow member , robert goebbels , who is unable to attend due to a political commitment .
within the committee on economic and monetary affairs , the jonckheer report has given rise to bitter controversy on the subject of the operation of the market .
economic relationships in the real world adequately demonstrate that eliminating all public intervention in the market does not in any way bring about perfect competition and the optimum distribution of resources .
the market favours the short term and immediate profits .
the necessary and valuable spirit of initiative must be offset by a sense of responsibility towards society .
we european socialists are in favour of a market economy with a social purpose .
the market is not an end in itself ; it must help to improve the human condition .
the european union or individual states must not take over from economic operators , but public authorities must define the rules and objectives which enable the economy to develop in a sustainable fashion .
the main objective of the union ' s competition policy cannot be to reduce the overall level of aid .
this aid must be aligned with the objectives of the union , particularly economic and social cohesion , sustainable development and research .
the internet is not a product of the market , but the result of research financed by the american army .
the world wide web , which has enabled the meteoric development of the information society , was developed by cern in geneva , once again with public aid .
the german government ' s intervention to save the holzmann group was criticised as an unjustifiable constraint upon the market economy .
president duisenberg even attempted to attribute the weakness , the entirely relative weakness of the euro in relation to the dollar to this state interventionism .
wishing to save 60 000 jobs is , apparently , a sin against the market , but saving capital does not seem to present any problem for the advocates of the free market .
human labour , on the other hand , is considered to be a simple factor in the equation .
we want a true culture of competition in europe .
the state hand must still be clearly seen to regulate the market and the commission must act as judge .
mr president , commissioner , i want to begin by thanking mr rapkay for a good report and constructive cooperation .
these are three areas in which many danish companies are experiencing major problems and are being squeezed out of their markets .
the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party has tabled 80 amendments in the committee , all concerning state aid .
but , as i have already mentioned , our overriding objectives ought still to be those of transparency and openness .
regarding the first point , we say quite clearly that , in order to take into consideration the requirements of sustainable development which the european union has endorsed , it is essential that , in some instances , there is state aid to businesses , be it in the form of tax exemptions , special taxation or even direct aid .
it is also legitimate for there to be inter-company agreements and voluntary restraint agreements , since all these agreements make it possible to reduce the detrimental effects of competition on social or ecological requirements .
the scandalous concentration of power in sectors of strategic importance is giving speculative multinational groups economies the size of entire states , and member states of the union at that .
mr president , commissioner , in the course of this pivotal year , prior to the changeover to the single currency , the commission has deployed every effort to ensure the birth of the euro in a favourable environment .
the competition policy has , as far as these resources permitted , contributed to this event .
in this area , the commission has given priority to a number of routes of action : acting on the structure of markets by actively combating anti-competitive practices , by refocusing its departments ' supervisory activities only upon matters with a manifest community interest and by affirming its intention to modernise competition law .
finally , on the subject of modernising the implementation of articles 85 and 86 of the treaty , we do not think that decentralised application would necessarily be going in the right direction .
mr president , commissioner , we have a basically positive view of the commission ' s white paper on competition , particularly as regards the abolition of the system of notification and authorisation , but we are also puzzled by several things .
there is state aid for businesses - we have already discussed this , there is still a strong public presence in the economy - it is estimated that the italian treasury controls 15 % of stock exchange capitalisation ; governments and central banks place obstacles in the way of mergers and acquisitions ; and there has been much talk in recent weeks about vodafone ' s bid for mannesmann and the bailout of holzmann .
what is being done may well be very important , but it is still not sufficient .
market forces must be employed in a sophisticated manner to do full justice to the responsibility of citizens and companies .
the commission ' s white paper on modernising competition policy seems more like a discussion paper .
in general , i am a great defender of cultural diversity but not in terms of competitiveness within the internal market .
but i still wonder if we do not run the risk of ending up in a kind of echternach procession where we will have to take one step back before we are able to take two steps forward .
sixthly and lastly , i would remind you of a point that i have already raised in my report on vertical restrictions , namely the legal privilege of company lawyers .
mr president , i would like , in beginning my speech regarding the white paper , to congratulate the rapporteur , mr von wogau .
national competition authorities were able to apply articles 81 ( 1 ) and 82 for some time .
however , they could not apply article 81 ( 3 ) , which , to a certain extent , prevented the coherent application of article 81 ( 1 ) .
the procedure in the field of competition is basically contained in regulation 1762 .
the court of justice accepted some time ago that community competition law could be applied by the legal bodies of the member states and in 1994 , the commission published a communication on this subject .
one of the most frequent criticisms of community competition law is its excessive red tape .
as a consequence of the continental legal tradition , consideration of whether certain agreements are anti-competitive or not depends more on an analysis of their clauses than on their effects on the market .
secondly , regulation 1762 must be repealed and replaced with a new regulation .
however , if some of the amendments are accepted , particularly those presented by the ppe-de group , we would consider the report to be stripped of its value and to have become an inconsistent document , lacking in rigour and , in that event , we would reconsider our support .
mr president , i would like firstly to express my appreciation to the commission for the improvement represented by the xxviiith report on competition policy in the union , when compared to previous reports .
i would also like to fully support his comments on the need to allow the regions - such as the basque country , which i represent - a margin for action , by virtue of the principle of subsidiarity .
mr president , i would like to stress that , in an age of significant technological changes - just look at what is happening in the information technology sector and other sectors such as energy and transport - safeguarding competition will be of fundamental importance for our future .
mr president , for british conservatives the efficient and uniform application of european competition policy is at the core of achieving an effective single market across the whole of the european union .
it therefore follows that any proposal which suggests major reform of the machinery for competition policy enforcement must be closely and carefully examined .
the truth is that the single market is not yet complete .
i should like to make it clear that we have the greatest confidence in and respect for commissioner monti .
he mentioned earlier that the report was carried with a significant majority but not with my support .
the first is the potential for renationalisation of competition policy .
i remain worried about the capacity of national courts and the capacity of the national competition authorities .
but i really feel that , in the circumstances , we want to know what the implications would be for business .
mr president , the european union ' s competition policy has been of central importance since european integration began .
it is an integral part of the tension , inherent in the very concept of european integration , between solidarity and cooperation between member states , with a view to creating a better and more efficient environment for the people and the economy , and competition , which should provide incentives to improve the competitiveness and future viability of the european union as an entity .
we are aware that in this age of strategic alliances and millennium mergers - in 1998 usd 2 400 billion was paid out in connection with take-overs - restrictive practices are being held in check , not just by our own rules but also by bilateral cooperation with the usa or japan , or others , until we get the international competition law we so badly need .
european competition policy , as we very often forget , is not just important for fair competition as such , but also for prices , growth and employment , and hence for the public .
it is also important to underline the connection between competition policy and consumer protection .
i welcome the fact that commissioner monti wants to make progress in this area in the dialogue with the european parliament , as he does in the dialogue with non-governmental organisations , consumer protection associations and the public .
greater transparency will also help to achieve public acceptance of decisions relating to competition policy .
then it is possible to understand that , for example , lower electricity and telecommunications prices are due to european competition policy , and brussels should not be pilloried when aid decisions are taken which are , of course , bound to cause problems at a particular moment in time or in a local context .
it is particularly important for there to be clarity in relation to competition rules in view of eu enlargement .
a word on the white paper : the revision of articles 81 and 82 represents a change of direction in monopolies policy .
i am opposed to this , unlike the majority of this house and indeed the majority of my own group , because i believe that , in competition policy terms , the directly applicable exception system is in every sense inferior to a system of prohibition unless certain conditions are met , and i believe there is a threat of renationalisation .
the system currently in force creates transparency , affords enterprises legal certainty and has , without a shadow of a doubt , led to discipline and acted as a deterrent on account of the notification requirement .
i also agree with the criticism that no emphasis has been put on the implementation of article 82 , especially when we are witnessing abusive conduct in a context of market concentration .
as a member for the basque country , i would like to express my total support for the implementation measures for fair competition in the market .
our discrepancy stems from the fact that the commission continues to misunderstand the character of the general system and the co-responsibility of our arrangement which gives our basque fiscal rules the same nature , foundation and aim as the rules of the member states of the union , and that they are applied in a general way to all tax-payers who , by virtue of points which fall under an external system of law , are subject to those rules .
mr president , ever since i was elected to this parliament in 1994 i have never witnessed a report which had such anti-irish sentiments and overtones as the jonckheer report which we are debating today .
i find it difficult to understand how he can index regional and social funds into this mathematical equation .
mr president , the monopolies ' ban is the key element of functioning competition order in europe .
as the court of justice recognised in 1996 , the steel industry is particularly sensitive to competition-related disturbances .
it is therefore necessary to continue to limit state aid for research , development , environmental protection and cases of company closure .
in the same category of ideas , it is essential that member states fulfil their obligation to be accountable to the commission for the aid granted to their steel companies .
finally , and in conclusion , mr president , with the expiry of the ecsc treaty , the regulations will have to be reviewed since i think that the aid system will have to continue beyond 2002 , and in that case i am in favour of a council regulation which will ensure security in this area .
i agree with the rapporteur on two issues .
however , the thing that worries us most , mr president , is the decrease in prices , by 30 % , owing to imports .
orders in the steel industry and the ship-building industry - we also spoke about this a while ago - have decreased drastically , resulting in a loss of jobs .
i congratulate the rapporteur karl von wogau , who takes up the theme but also makes quite plain his demand for clarification , indicates the accompanying measures that need to be taken , and pulls no punches when it comes to the problems currently under discussion .
competition policy must continue to be accorded central importance and will not be renationalised because this would jeopardise the internal market and europe as a business location in a global economy .
i also welcome , therefore , the fact that responsibility is to fall to the individual , without the commission giving up any of its responsibility .
the commission report confirms that , with the exception of germany , state aid to businesses is increasing .
the commission finds this worrying only from the point of view of the conditions of competition .
all these firms have gone ahead with job cuts and even redundancies .
state aid is not only counterproductive because , as the jonckheer report acknowledges , it gives rise to subsidy hunting with firms relocating from one country to another , but it is unacceptable because it allocates public monies to the enrichment of a handful of private shareholders .
mr president , today ' s debate is extremely important because the principle of competition has probably been the cornerstone of the internal market .
in accordance with the principle of competition , the legislation has implemented articles 85 to 94 , competition policy in the strict sense , and the revision of all state aid and tax provisions which may affect competition .
firstly , fiscal provisions of an indirect nature and recently , thanks to commissioner monti , there have been direct provisions , the code of good conduct in particular .
this is all the worse - as is the case with the second part of this reform - when responsibility for implementing the legislation lies with national authorities .
thirdly , it seems to me important that the commission should play a role in resisting the temptation to create independent agencies which would distort the very essence of the commission , in order to guarantee uniform application by international bodies .
we have seen this in the aborted seattle conference and we are now seeing it in the bilateral conferences with different regions or countries of the world .
for example , the fact that the amount and level of state aid calculated on a per capita basis vary considerably from member state to member state reveals the need for surveys such as this .
for example , state guarantees , on which the commission has just publicised its position , must naturally be considered state aid , but they are , in my opinion , a better option than granting aid directly to companies .
the report on competition policy further stresses the commission ' s confidence in hard and fast rules instead of putting the emphasis on economic arguments regarding efficiency , which affects competitiveness .
if competition policy is to be made subordinate to the aims of social and environmental policy , real efficiency and economic growth will remain just a dream .
mr president , mr monti , the reform of competition rules calls for a commitment by the european union , not only in the light and as a consequence of changes which have taken place through the years , but also with a forward-looking view to the union ' s enlargement .
in my opinion , we should also create a threshold below which two significant components which characterise our economic structure should be placed : small and medium-sized businesses , which bind the european economy together , and social protection , which europe has always guaranteed to the weakest parts of the economy .
safeguarding the social function of the market is what makes the difference between free trade , pure and simple , and a system for improving people ' s quality of life .
a point to consider regarding the new rules concerns the economy of the outermost regions and islands , all of which must be protected .
a free and open market can only exist by the grace of competition , marked by clear , uniform rules .
but europe is changing .
it is not enough to say that , in the member states , there is already 40 years ' worth of experience .
i therefore believe it to be absolutely necessary to establish an interinstitutional dialogue so that we might reach a good conclusion and put all the finishing touches to this essential reform .
secondly , we have the issue of companies ' legal certainty .
thirdly , we have the problem of the uniform application of community law .
i believe that biodiversity is good , as is cultural diversity , but not diversity in the application of the law with regard to the essential core of the internal market , that is to say , competition law .
what we cannot do , commissioner - and i would like to end on this note - is to give way , and give ammunition , to those who regard the european institutions as the property of the great and the good , of the rich , and not of the citizen , or the small and medium business , which , in the worst case scenario - which will never become reality because the requisite measures will be applied to prevent it - will result in courts which make disparate judgements , very late , with no real possibility of control apart from what the french call " le parcours du combatant , " that is to say , after lord knows how many years , when the court in luxembourg passes judgement , a court which we know to be inundated at the moment .
therefore , commissioner , we are relying on this interinstitutional dialogue to put the finishing touches to a reform which we are all hoping for and which we believe will lead us to a successful conclusion under your direction and with our cooperation .
our common aim is to reform and strengthen competition policy , a pillar of the social market economy and of european construction .
the guiding thread running through all the aspects of the reform of competition policy , which we shall have the opportunity to address together , aims to ensure more effective protection of competition , reduce the bureaucratic burden weighing down businesses and take decision-making processes closer to the european people .
the current notification instrument , ladies and gentlemen , no longer allows us to reach this objective because it does not guarantee that the commission is properly informed about the most serious restrictions - i would remind you that , in 35 years , there have only been nine cases in which the commission has decided on prohibition following notification in the absence of a complaint - nor does it guarantee transparency or provide real legal certainty for businesses which , in the majority of cases , receive a simple comfort letter .
the proposed system will improve the protection of competition , primarily because it will allow the commission to concentrate its action on the most serious restrictions , also because it will involve national and competition authorities to a greater degree in stamping out infringements , and lastly in that it will allow victims of infringements to have direct recourse to national judges , whose mission is to protect the rights of individuals .
the commission proposal accords the commission a central role in establishing guidelines on competition policy .
the reform does not entail any reduction in the commission ' s activities , but requires them to focus on the most important dossiers .
as with many other provisions of the treaty , articles 81 ( 1 ) and 82 have , after all , been applied for decades by national authorities and judges , and i do not feel that this has created serious problems .
the commission will make every effort to define the legislative framework , both through general provisions and through its decision-making practice .
we will examine all that material carefully before making a legislative proposal for a new regulation .
the commission is paying particular attention to legal certainty for smes .
in the system we propose reforming our substantive rules in such a way that most smes will be covered by block exemption regulations , as in the field of vertical restraints .
let me simply remind you that the court of justice pronounced a ruling on this in 1982 , as you know better than i .
the first is greater transparency .
parliament knows how important we all consider the question of transparency in competition policy , as i did right from the moment i had my hearing , on 1 september , in the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
i would like to say that , as we know , the commission report on state aid to the steel industry does not include individual decisions made under the exception procedure , pursuant to article 95 of the ecsc treaty , but addresses decisions which are not covered by the code on aid for the steel sector .
in this regard , i liked your term , mrs palacio vallelersundi : we must all pull together , preferably in the same direction .
thank you , commissioner monti .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
mr president , year after year we learn , mainly from the european court of auditors ' test reports , that money is lost to the budget of the european union on account of misdemeanours ranging from wastage , mismanagement , and irregularities to suspected blatant fraud .
after five years only four have done so .
we are giving new life to this idea with this report and call upon the commission to present legislative proposals that will enable this goal to be realised .
the concerns of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , as articulated in its position , together with those of the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , will also be taken full account of in this process .
i support the proposed deadline for the commission being 30 september in a proposed amendment .
the second recommendation relates to criminal proceedings .
the commission ought - and i have also amended this deadline to 31 may 2000 - to propose a legislative act on the establishment of an independent body which has institutional links with the commission , for coordinating and supervising the legal investigative body olaf .
the existing monitoring committee can only monitor the independence of the director of the agency .
the proposal for a legislative act of this kind should contain an independent statute for this body and define its tasks , which are confined to inquiries and criminal prosecution undertaken by olaf into activities which are to the detriment of the union ' s financial interests , and to olaf ' s relationship with the national authorities .
there is no question of this influencing the administration of justice in the member states .
this moderation and thoughtfulness is particularly necessary in the implementation of article 280 ( 4 ) .
the conclusions of the theato report safeguard them perfectly .
we need also to be sensitive to the concerns of member states .
the proposal to set up a european public prosecutor service is a very sensitive one .
we are all aware that an all-out federal approach and a situation where a european judicial authority takes precedence over the national judicial authorities is a step too far for some people .
the whole question as to whether we have the legal authority to do this has been outlined by mrs palacio .
i should like to make clear that my group is going to propose an amendment deleting the detail of how the commission should tackle this question .
it is now possible , on the basis of article 280 of the treaty , that the commission will take new initiatives , and i would like to suggest to the commission that it do this at the earliest opportunity .
one of the major problems in this area was that if you do something wrong , especially when it comes to revenue of the european union , then this will be termed an irregularity in one country and a crime in another .
i believe that is something we are all desperately in need of , bearing in mind the results of the last european elections and of the level of turnout .
the establishment of a european public prosecutor ' s office and the definition of offences common to all countries of the union is doubtless a good idea , but it is impossible to consider putting this into practice without having first introduced a european legal system .
reading the precise and comprehensive explanations in the theato report makes you realise just how many problems still need to be resolved and what these problems are .
in any case , this idea must be encouraged , and it will doubtless be during this attempt to protect financial interests that we realise that we need to include a community corpus iuris in the treaties .
mr president , mrs theato ' s report on the protection of the european union ' s financial interests proposes centralising criminal proceedings by initially creating a european public prosecutor .
this proposal is radically opposed to the spirit of the current system in which the criminal law and criminal proceedings that lie at the heart of the national legal systems must come under the sovereignty of each nation and lie within the exclusive competence of each state .
but the idea of a european public prosecutor , on the other hand , aims in the long term to confine the national states to a subordinate role in these matters .
moreover , this proposal is liable to set off a chain reaction of totally unforeseen reforms .
according to the theato report , the european public prosecutor is needed , in particular , in order to better support the inquiries of the anti-fraud office , olaf .
at the same time , however , we see from the van hulten report under discussion today that the european public prosecutor should in turn be supervised by a european union court .
in the final analysis , we feel that proposals such as the proposal for a european public prosecutor demonstrate an inability to conceive of a europe in anything other than a centralised and hierarchical form , organised around a superstate .
and such a network could take the form of improved coordination between national public prosecution authorities , for example , and the creation , if necessary , of national teams specialising in offences involving community finances .
mrs theato probably forgot to include a european prison now that we have the fbi , the european police , in the form of olaf .
mr president , it is essential for there to be effective protection under criminal law of the financial interests of the european union , more so these days than there used to be .
this does not just mean administrative changes but also structural changes ; in other words we must create instruments which are actually capable of affording protection under criminal law .
the intergovernmental conference 2000 will provide the appropriate forum for discussing this .
now it is , of course , possible to take the view that criminal law and criminal proceedings law are intrinsically matters pertaining to the law of the member states and it is quite unthinkable that they should be governed by the principle of subsidiarity .
the compatibility with the various national systems of law , as confirmed by experts , shows that criminal law is another area where europe has a great deal in common , for example where the significance of the offences we have been discussing here is concerned .
taking these aspects into account , i consider it appropriate that we create a framework of this kind , as proposed , and i also consider it necessary to the further development of olaf .
it is just such practical cooperation there is a need for .
there is no european anti-fraud legislation in force because the member states , as was stated before , have not ratified the treaty texts submitted .
firstly , the same penalty clauses regarding european fraud must apply in all member states of the european union .
secondly , we should indeed set up a european public prosecutor ' s office with two tasks , firstly to assist the national public prosecutors , helping bring criminal proceedings in european fraud cases and , secondly , to supervise europol and olaf in a judicial sense because these are two criminal investigation services which can operate at the moment without any judicial supervision .
the committee of wise men supports this .
corpus juris is something that was set up without any kind of public debate or public participation .
the idea of a european public prosecutor on the continental inquisitorial model with overriding jurisdiction throughout eu territories would have a major impact on the traditional systems both in ireland and the uk .
the idea of a single criminal code and the european public prosecutor is something which member states have a right to be informed about .
indeed when the plan was initially drawn up they said it would be restricted to cases of fraud against the eu budget .
we need a public debate on this .
we need the member states and the citizens in the member states to be properly informed .
it is unacceptable that something like this has been foisted on the member states of the eu without any proper public debate .
mr president , on behalf of the italian radical members , i abstained on this text in the committee on budgetary control , because i share the concerns that have been voiced , in such an authoritative way , by the representative of another legal culture which is certainly important : common law .
article 280 of the treaty allows the council to pinpoint the appropriate instruments to curb fraud .
we wanted to express our perplexity as regards these points by abstaining in committee .
we find ourselves dealing with some very serious events , which in the past seemed to be the norm .
this issue needs to be explored further in both cultural and practical terms .
today , we run the risk of adding a new institution to the already numerous and varied institutions which exist within each country .
mr president , i would very much just like to add to two particular points .
what parliament needs to do as a matter of urgency though - and this is why we intend to vote for recital 1 without these recommendations - is to send out a clear political signal to the commission and council that we want to see a clear legislative act put an end to this disorderly state of affairs .
mr president , for years , parliament has called for specific and uniform protection under criminal law of the union ' s financial interests .
at the same time they call for the existence of an independent body to coordinate and monitor the thoroughness of investigations by olaf , without harming the administration of justice by each member state and under the supervision of the european court of justice .
we should approve this report because it highlights the need to maintain efficient legal control over our institutions , by protecting the union ' s financial system with a substantive and procedural european law which is capable of maintaining the credibility of the community ' s economic life .
the commission has given its commitment to this task and the draft for the overall package of internal reforms documents this .
on ratifying the amsterdam treaty , all member states stated that they wanted to accord combating fraud against the financial interests of the european union the same priority as combating fraud to their own detriment .
yet as things stand , only the first four member states have ratified the agreement concluded in 1995 .
the second recommendation in this report relates to assessing the legitimacy of the investigative measures undertaken by olaf in the various european institutions .
i am fully in agreement with the monitoring committee and the rapporteur on this point .
no , there must be no undermining of olaf ' s authority , and neither do i think this was the rapporteur ' s intention .
thank you , commissioner schreyer .
there is as yet no federal european tax .
all the same , a europe with 25 members will be wanting a european tax on income , if not on profits , or the tax on co2 to finance the budget for 2025 .
koch report ( a5-0105 / 1999 ) - ( fr ) it is with great satisfaction that i welcome this report on improved harmonisation in the training of safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods .
in recent years , the transportation of dangerous goods nationally and internationally has increased considerably , increasing the risk of accidents .
it therefore proved necessary , in the context of establishing the internal market , to adopt some measures intended to ensure better risk prevention .
directive 96 / 35 / ec was a response to this requirement .
firms involved in the transport of dangerous goods and in the loading and unloading operations related to such transportation have been obliged , quite rightly , to comply with regulations regarding risk prevention , whether road , rail or inland waterway transport is involved .
it therefore seemed essential to make good this omission in order to achieve the standardised , high-level training of safety advisers , but also in order to avoid any disparities between the costs of training , with a concomitant effect on competition between the firms of different member sates .
the commission proposal seeks to ensure that the training of safety advisers is standardised .
it outlines the minimum content of examinations and defines the role of the authorising body as well as the requirements demanded of the examining bodies .
parliament voted in favour of this text .
koch report ( a5-0104 / 1999 ) last october i expressed my views on the hatzidakis report on the transport of dangerous goods by rail .
i shall point out that a directive on the approximation of member state legislation on the transport of dangerous goods by road came into force on 1 january 1997 .
this included a number of interim conditions valid until 1 january 1999 .
in line with the usual procedure , it is the european committee for standardisation ( cen ) which puts forward standards in this area , and they are then integrated in to the european agreement concerning the international carriage of dangerous goods by road signed in geneva in 1957 ( known generally as adr ) , applicable throughout europe , whose terms and conditions form the basis for the legislation applicable within the eu .
the cen has been unable to complete its work in the time allotted .
consequently , the commission proposal under discussion today is intended to amend the directive in order to provide a short-term solution to these problems , rather than to put an end to the transitional arrangements , as should have been the case !
right now we do not have the slightest idea as to when the cen will be in a position to put forward practical proposals .
schroedter report ( a5-0108 / 1999 ) mr president , i wanted to press home my explanation of vote by this oral explanation following on from the schroedter report with regard to regional development .
i would urge both the member states and the commission to give sufficient consideration to the huge disparities in wealth which continue to exist between the different regions in europe .
not only the difference in income per capita but , above all , large disparities in employment continue to give cause for concern .
despite the fact that the community , through the structural funds among others , injects considerable sums into combating the disparities between regional development opportunities in europe , these disparities continue to exist .
i therefore wonder whether the community should not have a more drastic change of tack and , based on very strict evaluations , change its course and change its objectives in such a way as to make it possible to combat the disparities in wealth and employment more effectively .
i hope we can revisit this issue at a later time .
i believe that this is particularly important as eu structural funds are always spent in a manner which maximises the economic development of different regions when local and regional authorities are involved in the decision-making process for the spending of such funds .
as a member of the european parliament for the constituency of leinster , i have always supported the need for the implementation of bottom-up schemes supported by national eu funds .
i believe that local authorities and groups from the private and voluntary sector should be fully involved in the decision-making process for the spending of european structural funds .
for example , we have seen the success of the leader i and leader ii schemes in ireland in terms of the jobs which have been created through the administration of these programmes in rural parts of ireland and within europe .
the leader programme at its core affords an opportunity for public , private and voluntary groups to pool their collective talents so as to create long-term and sustainable jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas .
these initiatives must also involve the participation of local authorities and local communities in an effort to identify where best european structural funds should be spent .
the rapporteur refers to the need to implement an integrated approach to new eu structural fund plans and programmes .
they must promote a decentralised , efficient and comprehensive partnership based on the skills and commitment of all sectors in regional and local authorities .
jacques delors was accustomed to saying that the market was short-sighted and hence the political need to reduce disparities .
this is why i shall support this report , despite regretting the fact that , for timetabling reasons , the european parliament was only consulted at a very late date on the guidelines intended to assist member states , regions and local communities in the programming of objectives 1 , 2 and 3 .
moreover , i would also urge this house to take into consideration the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs , adding a whole raft of thoughts on key areas such as combating social exclusion , support for the social economy and the implementation of the employment strategy .
these guidelines represent a step towards the improved effectiveness of community structural aid .
they also call for a general debate on the future of the cohesion policy after 2006 , but that is another subject .
if we are to have an effective single market that makes european industry globally competitive and generates wealth and employment for all europeans , then we must have a level playing field .
it is therefore crucial that the european parliament drafts its broad indicative guidelines without threatening the principle of subsidiarity , given that establishing the development strategy for each country falls to the respective member states .
unfortunately , the european commission has already moved ahead with its guidelines and parliament ' s position on the programmes for 2000-2006 does not carry much weight .
in this respect , the commission document has shortcomings , as it makes no recommendation to the member states to simplify procedures and national legislation for the presentation and examination of projects by the national authorities , and for their funding , execution and monitoring .
this is why the mid-term review , provided for under article 42 of regulation 1260 / 99 , will be of considerable importance .
while in theory this may meet the need for concentration and therefore the efficiency of interventions , we cannot help wondering whether the current situation of the objective 1 zones allows , in practice , a policy of integrated interventions , for which an operational instrument to coordinate the appropriations is necessary .
there has been no appropriate assessment of the importance of the global grant instrument , which could prove to be extremely useful in redressing the balance between urban and rural zones and , moreover , would accord proper status to local bodies which , being independent , could bring about the conditions for territorial development more quickly , and make a practical contribution to the efforts to reform the structural funds and to achieve the objectives of efficiency , concentration and administrative reform .
rural areas must truly be seen as a resource which should be increasingly invested in , by encouraging young people to remain in rural areas in order to prevent their economic and social disintegration .
it is now a fact that in order to attain this goal , rural areas need to see the creation of new jobs , which are no longer solely connected with agriculture , in the traditional sense - although this sector is important for the protection of the environment and the preservation of biodiversity - but also , for instance , in rural tourism , sport and cultural activities , environmental projects , smes , services , and so on .
in conclusion , the document is not particularly satisfactory , and in some aspects is disappointing .
berend report ( a5-0107 / 1999 ) . ( pt ) we basically agree with the assessment and the thoughts put forward by the rapporteur concerning the sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the european union .
finally , but no less importantly , i would like to refer to the rapporteur ' s proposal that , in future , this type of report should also include , amongst other issues , an analysis of the way cohesion is developing between the regions within each state .
in 1986 , the average of the 10 poorest regions amounted to 41 % of the overall community gnp .
progress is particularly marked in portugal and ireland .
this is a generalised tendency , sparing neither the rhone-alpes , nor alsace .
it has been confirmed in sweden and finland , countries where unemployment has in fact increased to a worrying degree over the last few years , as in many regions of the united kingdom .
the rural regions eligible under objective 5b will be included among the main victims of this situation : in france , 27 % of the populations eligible for structural funds are going to lose their eligibility at the end of the transition period , a figure which is occasionally much larger in some regions such as the loire region , alsace or lower normandy , political strongholds of the right-wing that were the victims of the petty political vote chasing of the left-wing coalition government .
based as it is on such choices , it is to be doubted whether regional policy can contribute to harmonious regional planning within the member states of the european union .
von wogau report ( a5-0069 / 1999 ) . ( fr ) considering the employment situation in the community and the european union ' s declared ambition to steadfastly attack unemployment , the analysis of mergers carried out by the commission should take elements other than competition into consideration .
the management of abb alsthom power , following a merger carried out in june 1999 , announced restructuring where there is already the prospect of layoffs in a number of countries .
this damaging situation for employment raises many questions , particularly regarding the information given to the european works council , in existence since 1996 .
on the other hand , as the rapporteur points out , in the name of competition policy , public monopolies are often exchanged for private monopolies , with the privatisation of important industries and public companies , as has happened in portugal , with harmful consequences for the country and its workers . - ( fr ) the commission ' s white paper on the modernisation of the rules implementing articles 85 and 86 of the ec treaty ( now 81 and 82 ) certainly does not propose any " renationalisation " of competition policy , as some members of the european parliament fear .
but it does , at least , make it possible to anticipate some rather interesting options for development of the european union .
in fact , taking note of the congestion of its services due to the prior notification system of state agreements likely to cause distortions in trade , and afraid of seeing the number of notifications increase yet further with the arrival of new member states , the commission is proposing to do away with the prior notification system of such agreements , and to apply competition rules at member state level in a more decentralised fashion .
the most remarkable thing , in my view , is the message conveyed by this proposal : that the commission is anticipating the consequences of enlargement and realising that this necessarily , and virtually automatically , requires reform of the centralised system .
moreover , the von wogau report , which the european parliament has just voted on , supports it in so doing .
but , on the other hand , the wider view must also be taken , namely that the initial decentralisation which has been begun today may , in the long term , lead to greater freedom to take the requirements of each country into account , and this will be of benefit to everyone .
rapkay report ( a5-0078 / 1999 ) the members of parliament from the lutte ouvriere party shall not be voting in favour of these reports on european competition policy .
the commission ' s declared intention to regulate the conditions of competition on the european market is ridiculous , for the only law which competition respects is the law of the jungle where the most powerful squash or devour the weakest elements .
the european commission ' s report is a blunt demonstration of the fact that the union institutions have no interest in anything except the major capitalist corporations who are engaged in this economic warfare and have no interest in the victims this causes .
we are voting against this report on behalf of the development of public services , in memory of the victims of the paddington rail disaster , killed not by fate but by an absurd determination to have competition where there should instead be regulations .
do you imagine that the 18 million unemployed people in europe are victims of too reticent an application of this competition policy ?
jonckheer report ( a5-0087 / 1999 ) i am pleased to see the quality of the seventh report on state aid within the eu , and to see that it will henceforth be an annual report , and also that the directorate-general for competition will be making information , both general and specific , publicly accessible via its website .
there is too often a tendency to criticise state aid harshly as a measure causing distortion in competition .
admittedly , an effective competition policy is a prerequisite for the proper operation of the internal market and of economic and monetary union .
however , as the rapporteur pointed out , such aid is occasionally essential and may , in addition to enabling the survival of a specific firm , make it possible to contribute to sustainable development ( article 6 of the treaty ) , services of general economic interest ( article 16 ) and economic and social cohesion ( article 158 ) .
the aid which union member states allocate each year to the sectors under consideration reached a total of eur 95 billion in the period 1995-1997 , including 40 % allocated to the manufacturing sector .
this aid is considerably less than the previous period , 1993-1995 ( a 13 % drop in the total amount and a drop from 3.8 % to 2.6 % in the amount of aid to the manufacturing sector ) .
this downturn in aid is chiefly due to the reduction in aid granted to the new german lander .
the european commission must make good these omissions as soon as possible .
it must also cooperate with the member states in order to improve the quality of data in good time , which is to say in time for the ninth report .
i also deplore the fact that the european parliament has been totally excluded from the advisory committee on state aid .
this is why i should like to see the next report on state aid include some assessment of the effect of such aid on employment , industry and craft businesses in the beneficiary countries .
just as the court of justice recognised in its order of 3 may 1996 , the iron and steel industry is particularly sensitive to disturbances to its competitive operation .
at the same time , it is , of course , essential to avoid any disturbance of competition conditions or of the markets , hence the importance of regulating such aid .
it is therefore essential to continue to restrict state aid to research and development , environmental protection and aid granted in the event of plant closure .
in the same way , it is vital for member states to fulfil their obligation to report to the commission on the aid granted to their steel undertakings , as stipulated under article 7 of the steel aid code .
the commission suggests that member states submit their reports within a time limit of two months following the end of each six-month period or , at least , annually , without the need for reminders .
although the steel aid code is expressed in a very clear way , the commission has , on a number of occasions , authorised aid for the steel industry even though such aid did not fall within the categories set out in the code .
finally , we have the problem of the consequences of the expiry of the ecsc treaty .
the aid system must effectively be continued beyond 2002 .
my feeling in this respect is that only a council regulation can provide the necessary legal certainty and ensure an official ban on any aid not covered by the code .
mr president , i would firstly like to thank parliament for offering me the opportunity to hold a debate on the disaster which has occurred off the french coast , as a result of the sinking of the oil tanker erika on 12 december 1999 , which resulted in more than 400 kilometres of coastline being contaminated with spilt oil , leading to the death of thousands of birds and other enormously adverse effects from the point of view of the environment and the preservation of our seas and of clean coastlines which meet the minimum requirements of a developed society .
we all know them , and i simply want to say that the commission shares the indignation , not only of those who live along the french coastline , who are the first to be affected by this disaster , but also all those europeans - and non-europeans - who may face similar disasters .
the commission immediately expressed its solidarity and has wanted to contribute to combating the tragic consequences of this event with all the means at its disposal .
thus , from the environmental point of view , i must say that , in collaboration with , and at the request of , the french authorities , immediately after the sinking , commissioner wallstrom , who is in charge of the environment , created an environmental crisis unit .
the commission also participated in the deployment of tools for combating pollution in the area of the disaster , coordinating the actions of eleven member states of the union , who have sent more than 26 kilometres of floating barriers to the area .
this work consisted particularly of the creation of a community system which gathers all available information relating to the existing community resources for combating this type of pollution , the establishment of a community working group and the joint financing of the project to develop and improve the techniques for combating pollution within the european union .
as well as the emergency proposal , it is also necessary , in the long term , to maintain the capacity to confront other similar disasters .
therefore the commission is delighted that parliament has favourably received , at first reading , its draft decision on the establishment of a legal framework which will improve cooperation in combating accidental pollution .
the commission hopes that recent events will speed up the final approval of this text in parliament and the council and will therefore allow us to move beyond the current situation .
however , with regard to transport , i would like to say that the sinking of the erika once again raises the problem of the prevention of marine accidents and , more specifically , safety in the transport of polluting products .
in this respect , i believe that , firstly , it is essential to highlight the fact that the european union has not been inactive since the notorious sinking of the amoco cadiz in 1978 off the french coast .
nevertheless , perhaps we should ask ourselves whether we need to do more .
over the last six years , some fifteen community regulations and directives have been adopted .
the states have now been provided with a legal framework which allows them to tackle the issue of flags of convenience , as well as all of those parties who fail to fulfil their safety obligations .
and , of course , the commission must be certain to ensure that , in the member states , these regulations are applied in a consistent manner .
with regard to the sinking of the erika , the results of the preliminary investigation , carried out by the french authorities on the causes of the accident , have been communicated to the commission .
the report demonstrates the lightweight nature - to use a euphemism - of the controls which have been applied in this case .
i must say that the commission , for its part , since 21 december 1999 , has approached the italian authorities in charge of port inspections , as well as the classification society rina , which was responsible for the most recent classifications of the erika , with a view to receiving explanations regarding the way that the erika has been inspected .
the commission must ascertain whether the relevant community directives were correctly applied in this case , both by the italian authorities , as the port state , as well as the company rina , as the classification society .
these checks , mr president , are essential with regard to perfecting the directives in the future and our ability to improve on the action which is being taken .
however , without pre-empting the results of these investigations - how the sinking happened , what the real reasons were , and how the inspections were carried out , both by rina and by the italian port authorities - , all indications suggest that the erika accident raises a series of questions which merit close attention and require us , in my opinion , to act with the greatest urgency .
the commission was already preparing a communication on safety in sea transport and port safety .
however , these events clearly oblige us to speed up the presentation of this communication and above all to concentrate on the transport of dangerous goods and pollutants , especially oil , gas and chemical products .
this document will be accompanied by a series of legislative proposals intended to improve maritime safety in community waters .
the commission intends to adopt them before june of this year , so that the debates on the proposed measures may begin , both in this parliament and in the council , as from the second six-month period of 2000 , under the french presidency .
as for the content of this communication , we basically intend to tackle the following issues : firstly , the tightening up of controls on ' high-risk ' ships , whatever flag they may sail under , although the statistics speak for themselves : in port inspections , ships carrying the flags of the fifteen member states of the european union show around 5.9 incidences per 100 inspections carried out .
the world average is around 15.6 incidences in inspections carried out in european ports .
in the case of cars , we all know that , after four years , they have to undergo a technical inspection every year .
secondly , in european ports , we should promote the use of oil tankers which respect the environment .
more specifically , we intend to establish a system which will allow us to determine the liability of the owner or forwarder of the cargo and hold them liable - indeed , it is because there are forwarders who show little concern for the quality of the ships they charter that shipowners choose to register their vessels abroad - as well as increasing the insurance premium paid by shipowners in respect of the total sum insured per ship .
finally , the commission intends to continue in its efforts to improve transparency with regard to the quality of the ships sailing in european waters .
in this regard , the commission proposes to speed up the implementation of the equasix system , which must be in place as from may of this year , which is no more and no less than a system for up-to-date information on the situation of the international fleet to which all these ships belong .
the international maritime organisation , as we all know , has the capacity neither for controlling nor for making mandatory the regulations subscribed to by some states who often forget their commitments and close their eyes - to put it mildly - to the obligations they have signed up to in these conventions .
secondly , we must continue to try to achieve greater competitivity in the european shipping sector , which is a sector capable of very high levels of safety , maintaining a high level of requirement , but we must also be capable , with regard to flags of convenience , of combating the abuses which occur in relation to these flags .
finally , ladies and gentlemen , we must combat the irresponsibility of some shipowners , some forwarders , some states , some companies and some operators in the field of maritime transport who , through their irresponsibility , endanger our natural environment and may create disasters such as the one which has unfortunately happened recently along the french coastline .
mr president , i shall be speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group , but also as an elected representative for brittany , and i am therefore directly concerned and shocked by these events .
i am pleased to see that we have today arrived at a compromise motion .
the erika shipwreck is a truly european issue , firstly because it is disfiguring and polluting some of the most beautiful beaches in europe , with extremely serious consequences for tourism , people who earn their living from the sea and environmentalists , and also because the underlying issue is the regulation and monitoring which ought naturally to be on a european scale .
because the americans managed to learn their lesson from the exxon valdez disaster and in 1990 to draw up the oil pollution act , which makes the parties concerned aware of their responsibilities , as it makes it possible to hold the charterer liable , and is more restrictive , and , more especially , more carefully monitored thanks to various regulations and , in particular , the existence of the american coastguard .
firstly , i would like to thank the environment colleagues in my group who approached this particular problem jointly with their transport team .
this disaster is both a transport and environmental one and is not confined to one area .
here we are here again in this parliament discussing yet another maritime disaster .
while i recognise that some progress has been made in areas like port state control and minimal crewing standards , we are still faced with what our late colleague ken stewart used to call ' ships of shame sailing in and out of our european union waters : rust buckets badly crewed ' .
in reality we can never stop accidents happening at sea , but it is incumbent upon us all to learn the lessons whenever an incident of this kind takes place and apply those lessons to reduce risks in future .
the " erika " incident was serious especially for the people of brittany most closely affected , but it was devastating for the wildlife of much of europe .
some say that it is the worst accident that has ever befallen the bird life of this part of europe .
the thought of an incident of this kind occurring in the near future should concentrate her mind and the minds of her officials wonderfully .
but , listening to you , commissioner , we are somewhat frustrated because anyone already involved in these matters knows that in 1992 , i believe , the commission and parliament drew up a very interesting text which already contained all the proposals included in the resolution drawn up by the transport committee .
and , on this subject , commissioner , you did not mention how the commission intends to contribute to the restoration of the natural environment and the natural habitats .
mr president , my group asked that this debate be set up in order to provide parliament with an opportunity to express its solidarity with the people directly affected by this ecological disaster , affected both in terms of their economic activities and in terms of their attachment to their natural environment .
many volunteers from france and other european countries have expressed their solidarity by lending a hand to the victims in the field .
as the european parliament , we can express our solidarity primarily by taking action in order to ensure the immediate release of emergency aid to the families affected by the oil slick and , at the same time , demanding tightening up of the quality criteria , on the european and international scale , of the regulations and standards governing the safety of sea transport , stipulating much more frequent inspection and sanctions that are a far greater deterrent to offenders .
our proposals are particularly concerned with the age of oil tankers .
among those inspected and found to be in contravention of regulations last year , 15 were at least 20 years old and some were 30 and more .
finally , there is the lack of transparency .
i am thinking specifically of total-fina in the present instance .
mr president , commissioner , as a member for the french atlantic coast , for vendee , i should first like to express the disgust of the people who are the victims of the erika oil slick in the face of these disasters , caused not by a natural disaster such as the hurricane which has also just struck us , but by a crime .
what the stricken populations are waiting for now , those who have lost everything , particularly among those who made their living from the sea and from tourism , those people whose businesses have been compromised for several years to come , is not for the polluters to repair the damage they have caused , but for the gears to now be set in motion to ensure that their present misfortune serves to prevent similar crimes affecting other people in future .
so today we find ourselves in a state of utter confusion .
a directive on maritime safety has been in preparation for many years , but it is making very slow progress .
i shall mention three issues that our group feels are priorities .
thirdly , a strict age limit on vessels to be given access to community waters must be established in the near future .
if we do not obtain a framework of community regulations which is sufficiently clear , strict and trenchant , then those member states that wish to do so must be allowed to take the necessary steps to protect their people and their territory , in the same way that the united states succeeded in learning the lessons of the exxon valdez disaster by making double hulls compulsory and banning all vessels more than 20 years old from their waters .
mr president , torrey canyon , olympic bravery , haven , amoco cadiz , gino , tanio , so many names we remember with horror .
twenty one years after amoco cadiz , this umpteenth oil slick , the seventh since 1967 , shows the irresponsibility of our successive rulers .
the erika , a vessel flying a maltese flag , a floating rust bucket , classed amongst the most dangerous type of oil tankers , has contaminated more than 400 km of our coastline , a case of pollution even worse than that caused by the amoco cadiz .
the erika disaster must be the last in the series .
next , reliable technical inspection must be established like the technical inspection compulsory in france for vehicles more than five years old .
we must regulate the use of flags of convenience , make double hulls mandatory for the transport of polluting or dangerous materials , work on technological innovations in order to be able to process or recover hydrocarbons at sea .
non-compliant vessels must be denied access to european waters , the responsibility of polluters , shipowners or charterers must be determined in line with the principle of the " polluter pays " , maritime supervision must be strengthened to prevent any degassing , thorough and reliable inspection of tankers must be required , an appropriate " natural disasters " budget line must be re-established for member states and , in the meantime , community aid released on an exceptional basis and the french departments affected by the disaster should be made eligible for structural funds .
it is particularly bad this time , not least because it has affected a major european state ; an incident which could happen again at any time .
mr president , may i start by saying that i would like to thank commissioner palacio very much for her clear , adequate and , at the same time , very firm response .
this also means that , in any case , i have a great deal of respect for the briefing note which she sent on 10 january but also for the action points which she announced today .
the erika disaster shows that when sound traffic and transport regulations are lacking at international and european level , nature and the environment come off second-best .
mr president , we have already had this discussion so many times in the past .
thirdly , we need to carry out checks on these safety and insurance certificates in the ports , that is in every port of the european union .
we need to be sure that if need be , the country whose flag the ship is flying will accept liability .
in the fifth place , we need there to be a guarantee that these demands will apply to all ships using the ports and waterways of the european union , and incidentally , that includes the candidate countries .
but how do we make use of the sense of crisis to which this ecological disaster has led ?
mr president , we shall vote in favour of the gue / ngl group resolution because it denounces total-fina ' s responsibility in this ecological disaster and i endorse the proposal that flags of convenience and the use of superannuated vessels should be prohibited , or that double hulls should be mandatory for oil tankers .
the crux of the problem is that all governments , and indeed all the european institutions , acknowledge the right of major corporations such as total-fina and its ilk to maximise profits whether it be harmful to their employees or to the environment .
in these circumstances , even the best resolutions will remain little more than appeals to principle which are powerless to limit the great corporations ' capacity to cause damage .
if the member states decide , in agreement with ourselves , that 25 % of ships are to be monitored on the basis of port state control , then they must also make the necessary personnel available .
mrs roth-behrendt , we already have a tuv ( organisation for safety testing ) for ships in the form of the classification companies .
finally , we should make it quite plain to malta that if it wants to become a member of this community then by the time it accedes it must apply a standard in respect of registration and flag state control which completely fulfils our requirements , for the environment is a communal entity and not something that we can divide up !
mr president , commissioner , the erika sank near my home and is still there , with 20 000 tonnes in its hold , the fate of which we are waiting to discover .
my first thoughts are for the 26 indian sailors , who were saved but of whom nothing has been said .
commissioner , as time is very short , i would like to pick out the seven points which we feel , and you have already mentioned some of them , are essential to work on : double-hulled vessels in our waters as soon as possible and the strictest possible state control of ports .
then , sanctions must be harmonised between the 15 member states ; they should not be different , but the same throughout the union .
finally , there must be improvements in the training of crews .
mr president , i welcome the statement from the commissioner .
i would like to express my sympathy with all those who are dealing with the consequences of the breaking up and sinking of the oil tanker erika .
however , before we rush in with a whole raft of new measures and new regulations , let us look carefully at the existing arrangements to be sure that they are being properly implemented .
it is no accident , commissioner , that the affected areas are always those european regions which are least developed , those which eke out a meagre existence from tourism and fishing and which , in the majority of cases , do not have any other resources .
portugal is a country which has clearly demonstrated its sensitivity to issues relating to the sea .
i would ask the portuguese presidency to study the possibility of implementing a complete strategy for the prevention of maritime accidents at european level , using all the means at our disposal - technological , structural and socio-economic - to prevent a disaster such as this from happening again in the future .
we must thank those who , while defenceless and lacking in resources , have battled courageously against the grave effects that this disaster has had on coastal regions , the marine ecosystem and european fishing stocks .
the erika catastrophe comes as no surprise .
i do not know precisely how many , but any number of ships which are practically floating time bombs in european waters , sail every day , and as far as i can see , a catastrophe of this kind could happen again any day .
it always came from the member states , from the council of ministers , where they fought doggedly over every trifling matter , achieving very little in terms of progress .
mr president , commissioner , i believe that the unfortunate incident involving the erika should in fact , as others have said this afternoon , constitute a decisive watershed which will see the end to this type of accident in the european union where , since 1967 , there have been seventeen accidents involving large oil tankers ; more than one every two years .
i trust that these measures will , in a few months , give rise to a clear and convincing legal instrument - a directive , possibly - which will put an end , once and for all , to these 21st century pirates , who deprive us all of the wealth and beauty of the sea .
commissioner , there are many experts who consider that the double hull is not sufficiently safe and propose the so-called ' ecological hull ' in which case , in the event of an accident , the seawater penetrates the containers and , as a result of pressure , the oil is transferred to other tanks .
mr president , commissioner , i think that first we should all congratulate ourselves on the procedure that has been adopted and which will lead us , after each of our respective political groups has rallied together and expressed its feelings , finally to produce a joint resolution .
i think that it is quite obvious , and this is the first conclusion that can be drawn from the erika disaster , that public opinion would find it hard to understand that we regulate chocolate but do not regulate maritime transport .
the commissioner has suggested three main chapters which need to be drafted and brought into line with our legislation , in which we can set standards .
i have also noted , to my great satisfaction , that even the groups advocating greater national sovereignty , or the eurosceptic groups are calling for europe to regulate , and i think that this is in fact the right level to take action .
we sometimes regulate things which could , by and large , remain subsidiary .
i hope that all political groups will support us in our request for a public hearing .
the cause of the disaster must be sought in the weakened structure of the oil tanker .
although britain and france have had their differences recently , i can assure you that there is considerable sympathy in my country for all those affected .
tv pictures of the damage done to your coastline and wildlife , in particular birds and the already dwindling fish stocks , have brought back memories of similar british disasters , such as the torrey canyon in 1967 , and have prompted many british volunteers to help .
instead of allowing the costs of these disasters to fall on the communities most affected and insurance markets such as lloyds of london , we must develop new technologies to retrieve from the sea much more than 10 % of the lost oil .
in addition we must build on the council directive dealing with enforcement of international standards for ship safety and pollution prevention by ensuring that the inspection goal of 25 % of ships calling at eu ports is met and that a high standard of inspection is delivered .
rather than banning flags of convenience , which would violate the right of every sovereign state to have a merchant fleet , under the 1995 eu directive on port state control , national maritime authorities must impose more effective sanctions on flag states which fail to carry out their international treaty obligations .
i sincerely hope that , particularly during the french presidency later this year , the commission and the council will look carefully at all these options , and i heartily commend this resolution to parliament .
this was demonstrated by the americans who , after the exxon valdez disaster , within one year , adopted enormously rigorous and tough legislation , which threatens , as i said earlier , to divert ships unacceptable to american ports towards europe .
in europe , after the amoco cadiz , or the urquiola on the spanish coast , in 1976 , or the torrey canyon , in the same year , or the many other cases there have been , we really began to legislate after 1994 and 1995 , particularly in the last few years .
in my opinion , we now have to make a significant and urgent effort to confront new problems , also deriving from american legislation , which emphasise the safety of the transport of dangerous goods in the maritime sector .
i have referred to a series of issues which i will lay out in more detail , if you wish , in an appearance before a special committee on this matter , or when i present the actual initiatives in the coming months .
malta and cyprus have asked to join the community .
we must be demanding on this issue and we are negotiating to this end .
i believe that this will be difficult but , in any event , we should carry out a review of the registers of the european union countries .
according to the information which the commission services have given me , this legislation is not adequately applied in many member states due to a lack of personnel , means and inspectors .
unfortunately , the 25 % often consists of flags which are expected to fulfil the requirements : in this way inspections are quicker and the work is carried out more easily .
therefore , more than making amendments , we will have to implement measures to control what is already being done , apart from some supplementary requirements with regard to reviews , especially in relation to the age of the different vessels .
but , obviously , as some speakers have said - and i thank all of you for your totally positive and relevant interventions - we cannot allow a situation where , within one , two or three years , we have to say once again that we have not done what we should have done .
we have taken good note of your intentions .
i have received 8 motions for resolution , in accordance with rule 37 ( 2 ) , to close the present commission statement .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12.00 p.m .
storms in europe the next item is the commission statement on the storms in europe .
we are now speaking - and personally , i am very happy that we are - about the consequences of an historic storm , a veritable hurricane which affected france , and also the federal republic of germany and austria in the same period .
this is the solidarity that i would like to express on behalf of the whole commission and , particularly , within the commission , on behalf of my colleagues who have not forgotten their roots or their citizenship : franz fischler from austria , michaele schreyer and gunther verheugen from germany , and pascal lamy and myself from france .
the objective 2 zoning was stopped by the commission after consulting the various governments .
in germany ' s case , the commission ' s decision was taken in december and today , the commission has stopped the objective 2 zoning plan , not only for luxembourg and sweden , but also for france and austria .
in france ' s case , where the damage is objectively the most extensive , the total available appropriations for the new objective 2 are eur 5.4 billion for the period 2000-2006 .
a preliminary study by the commission services shows that on the basis of a financial allocation set up in proportion to the eligible population , 70 % of people affected by the storm may benefit from aid eligible under objective 2 .
the 69 devastated french departments could thus receive around eur 4.1 billion over the next seven years .
for germany and austria , the corresponding total sums are respectively eur 3 billion for germany and eur 600 million for austria .
i would also like to point out that the devastated areas which do not feature on this new zoning plan - and unfortunately there are some - which are not covered by objective 2 , but which were eligible under the previous objective 2 and objective 5b zoning , could also have access to appropriations available in the new programming period as provisional support .
they will probably have new priorities , in order to take into account the consequences of this storm or of the oil slick .
it is up to the governments of the countries concerned to distribute community financial support among the various regions eligible for structural funds , and therefore to propose to the commission plans for action to be carried out at grass roots level .
i know that parliament adopted a previous resolution to this effect , on 16 december last year .
i hope you do not mind if i stress , even though i have already said it twice , that this applies to greece too , with regard to the consequences of the earthquake which occurred at the beginning of september , in accordance with objective 1 of the cohesion fund .
ladies and gentlemen , my colleague , franz fischler , adopts the same approach with regard to rural development .
france will therefore benefit by eur 760 million per year , germany by eur 700 million and austria by eur 423 million .
this aid is available for devastated regions and is not constrained by the zoning which i am bound to apply under objective 2 .
france would thus have access to eur 225 million for the period 2000-2006 .
community aid will thus be able to contribute to compensating fishermen and boat-owners for the temporary cessation of their activities in case of unforeseen events , up to a maximum of two months per year .
it is therefore very important that this house , as well as the commission , passes this information and this practical expression of solidarity on to all partners involved and to the people concerned and affected .
as far as i am concerned , i shall endeavour to do that myself this week , when i visit , the day after tomorrow , two french departments which have been particularly badly affected by the storms : charente-maritime , affected both by the hurricane and the oil slick , and creuse .
tomorrow , 19 january , my colleague michaele schreyer will visit one of germany ' s most devastated regions , the black forest , in the state of baden-wurttemberg .
nevertheless , i think that we must go even further .
this really is an opportunity to create a genuine european civil protection force .
today , we have a long way to go , even if the helsinki european council did take a step forward in this direction and margot wallstrom ' s services are working on extending the role of the ' search and rescue task force ' .
mr president , the last days of 1999 were swept away by an incredibly violent storm , which struck france in the main , but also affected germany , spain , great britain and switzerland .
i am sad to say that it accounted for more than 100 deaths , 88 of which occurred in france .
the human cost has been enormous , but so has the material damage , and both public amenities and private property have been destroyed or seriously damaged .
now that the shock has passed and the authorities ' vital functions have been re-established , i wonder , and i ask the commission and the council to consider as well the opportunity once again to incorporate a budget line for emergency aid into the community budget , in order to address this kind of occurrence .
next , i would like to address the huge problems encountered by one industry that has been particularly badly affected by this storm .
in france , more than 120 million cubic metres of wood were brought down by the wind .
with regard to this , i am delighted at the work that has been done in recent days in this house between the various political groups in order to reach a joint resolution which , i hope , will be adopted tomorrow .
above all , i think that public opinion will see this solution as unacceptable in terms of our political responsibility to europe .
commissioner , i would like to thank you for the ideas you have put forward , particularly on the very specific proposals concerning the people affected and who are expecting a lot from the european union , in terms of the help that we can offer them .
i think that you must have done so , because you have not mentioned it .
you also know that this will not only be a short-term problem , but also a medium and long-term one .
the towns concerned estimate that it will be spread over 40 years .
i think that consequently it will be extremely difficult indeed to compensate these rural towns through subsidies for losses in their financial revenues .
we should therefore review our policies in order to take account of this fact .
mr president , commissioner , france is still in shock as a result of this terrible disaster which has caused the death of dozens of people .
people may have been traumatised in the areas where the damage has been greatest , but nobody has given up in the face of these terrible circumstances .
on the contrary , i think that the situation shows in hindsight the relevance of the proposal my group made to restore a specific budget line for natural disasters in the union .
it would also be appropriate , of course , to increase the structural funds for reconstruction in regions which have been devastated , particularly appropriations for rural development , for agro-food measures and for forestry .
i took particular note of the proposals concerning objective 2 .
if this disaster had taken place in guatemala or turkey , we could have immediately used the community budget to help the victims , but in our own countries nothing of the kind is possible because there is no suitable budget line with which to do so .
it seems quite natural that given such a disaster , national and european solidarity should go to the help of the devastated regions and those people who have been worst affected .
we would understand completely if you were not able to say anything else given the irresponsible attitude not only of the commission , but also of this parliament , and if you cannot do anything because there is no legal or financial framework for doing so .
mr president , commissioner , europe has undergone a tough ordeal at the start of this millennium .
i would first like to express my heartfelt condolences to the families in mourning as a result of the appalling weather conditions that devastated europe in december .
it is europe 's duty to support them and thereby complement the efforts of the governments of member states affected by the disaster .
the community action programme for civil protection , established by a council decision on 9 december , was launched on 1 january 2000 .
our priority , as we wait for community-level funds to be freed up , is for material aid in terms of partnership exchanges between member states .
this is a very sad opportunity for europe to renew its forestry heritage in line with the role that this plays in wildlife and nature conservation and in our economies .
it is therefore a time for solidarity and cooperation between member states in the face of an ecological and economic calamity .
the hurricane of the same name swept across europe claiming numerous victims , mainly in france and germany , but also in switzerland , leaving a trail of destruction in its wake .
mr president , commissioner , permit me , first of all , to make reference to two facts .
the citizens of the european union expect solidarity , also from within this community .
indeed the european parliament must make it its business to uphold this right in hours of need .
the european union needs rules governing environmental liability as a matter of urgency .
we can no longer tolerate a situation where the general public has to foot the bill for damage that has often been caused by individuals involved in criminal machinations .
then , for example , people will think twice before transporting oil in a tanker that is about to fall apart .
when , in 1994 , over five years ago that is , i joined the legal affairs committee in this parliament , i became rapporteur for the environmental liability dossier .
there is certainly a need for european civil protection , and the eu budget must also provide for a budget line covering natural disasters .
secondly , we welcome the solidarity between the french departments and citizens , and the solidarity of other countries with france , which is the country worst affected .
therefore europe must be clearly committed to the kyoto protocol and make specific proposals .
first of all , we would like to express sympathy with all the families and communities that lost members in this terrible tragedy .
i want to thank the commissioner for his comprehensive statement on the subject and his suggestion that we might indeed organise ourselves at european level to give assistance to member states and regions that have tragedies like this .
it was not able to do very much but it was repeatedly abused by members of this house proposing action when the disasters were not even major .
we had floods in ireland also and i want to express my sympathy with the people in ireland who suffered from these .
it is true that there was a joint decision by the council and parliament seeking to discontinue emergency lines .
mr president , commissioner , when we compare the frequency with which storms occur in other parts of the world with our own situation , we see that europe gets off relatively lightly .
nevertheless , the storms that took place in the last week of december showed us what the consequences can be and that there are major problems in store for us .
i would therefore like to extend my sympathy to all those citizens in the regions where the storms raged so furiously , and at the same time , from my position here in this chamber , point to how important it is to support these regions and people .
i thank the commissioner and support him very much in his european protection force .
mr president , commissioner , i second all those who expressed their solidarity with the storm victims .
mr president , i would first like to thank you for proposing to extend this debate in order to see it through .
next , i would like to say that as a commissioner , but also as a french citizen , i have been very touched by the expressions of sympathy and solidarity that i have heard from many european members of parliament from throughout the union .
this money is available now , this year .
if the national authorities do their job properly , and i am sure that they will , we will be able to raise appropriations for specific problems and projects from the middle of 2000 and in the next few years .
this money is plentiful , even if it cannot , according to objective 2 , cover all the areas affected .
finally , i would like to say - or repeat - that not all of these disasters necessarily have natural causes .
i would like to thank you , mr president , and parliament , for giving the commission the opportunity to state its views .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will be taken at noon on thursday .
food safety the next item is the communication on food safety and a statement by the commission .
mr president , i am very pleased to take this first available opportunity of outlining to parliament the main lines of the commission 's white paper on food safety , adopted on wednesday last , 12 january , in association with my colleague , mr liikanen .
the white paper represents three to four months of intensive work since the new commission was appointed last september .
the commission is fully committed to restoring that confidence by putting in place the most up-to-date and effective food safety regime in the world .
between the agro-food sector and the farming sector there are over 10 million employees .
this crisis of confidence has also had the unfortunate but inevitable effect of eroding the trust of consumers in the systems and institutions at national and european level that should monitor and assure the highest standards of food safety .
we will also need the fullest support from the council and other key stakeholders .
all of these measures are designed to make it more coherent , understandable and flexible .
we want to promote better enforcement of that legislation and to provide greater transparency to consumers .
the detailed action plan on food safety in the white paper sets a precise timetable for action over the next three years .
over 80 measures are envisaged .
we are also envisaging the establishment of a european food authority by 2002 as an essential complement to the new food safety regime .
the chapter of the white paper devoted to the establishment of a european food authority is clearly designed to elicit views and comments .
i will return to this process of consultation in a few moments .
we must also ensure excellence and transparency .
we must create a permanent and truly independent , excellent and transparent system of risk assessment .
the key task of the authority will be risk assessment in the area of food safety .
they may not be transferred in their present form or structure - this is an issue on which we will elicit views before making our definitive proposals on the authority 's establishment .
as the white paper makes clear , the new authority must be a value-added structure .
these include a comprehensive information gathering and surveillance function , the coordination of scientific information in the eu , and building up strong networks with food safety agencies and bodies in member states .
there are also those who argue that the commission could effectively ignore the advice of the new authority .
i can assure you here today that the commission , in exercising its risk management functions , will fully take account of the scientific advice of the authority .
i have already said that the authority will be charged with developing networks with national food safety agencies and bodies in the member states .
the authority must become the authoritative source of scientific advice and information on food safety issues .
as an integral part of a value-added structure , the white paper proposes that the authority would have a major role in risk communication : to disseminate complex scientific information in a consumer-friendly way ; to be the obvious and indispensable port of call for the most up-to-the-minute data on risk ; to be highly visible ; to tell the good news story about food ; to be proactive .
the white paper also contains very important proposals in respect of controls .
i want to see a genuine internal market operating in the control arena .
this revised community framework would have three core elements : operational criteria set up at community level , community control guidelines , and enhanced administrative cooperation in the development and operation of control .
as part of our proposals in this area - which i expect to bring forward at the end of this year - i will be examining whether additional powers in addition to infringement procedures need to be given to the commission .
these proposals must be seen as part of our mission to have the highest food safety standards in the world , boost consumer confidence and increase markets for farmers and producers in the union .
in addition to the proposals for a new european food authority and an enhanced control system at community-level , the white paper proposes an action plan with a wide range of measures to improve and bring coherence to the community 's legislation , covering all aspects of food products from farm to table .
it sets out over 80 separate actions that are envisaged over the period ahead and intends to close identified loopholes in current legislation .
i look forward to having a useful exchange of views this afternoon with the members of parliament who would clearly have preferred to do this last week if there had been an appropriate parliamentary forum available .
but i know too that we will have many further opportunities in the coming months to consider the white paper 's proposals on the authority .
parliament will have a key part to play in this debate .
parliament played a crucial role in europe 's response to the bse crisis .
it has especially active since then in bringing citizens ' concerns about food safety issues to the fore .
it is essential that the commission should have the benefit of parliament 's contribution to the shaping of what would be a key component of raising consumer health protection to a new plane and thereby restoring consumer confidence in the european union 's food safety regime .
the european food authority will be a key ingredient in the eu 's food safety regime in the years ahead .
but there is one word that i have not heard you mention here tonight .
some sectors of the food industry clearly need better regulation and that is clear on the issue of feed and animal feedingstuffs .
mrs ahern raised the issue of liability .
the rapid alert system for feed is something that we have identified as a gap in the legislation .
there is a reference to applicant states and that is something that we have in mind .
standards of food safety and indeed other areas of safety are obviously of critical importance in relation to enlargement and this is a matter that i have drawn to the attention of mr verheugen .
of course , we are not in a position to dictate anything in terms of content , but i would insist on parliament retaining the rights accorded it under maastricht and amsterdam , and even extending them .
some may take the view that it would be inappropriate for parliament or members of parliament - or indeed parliament nominees - to be members of the board .
mr florenz also raised the question of anonymity .
consumers in the european union must know of the existence of the food authority .
i suspect that the question is focused on the issue of where the competence of the authority begins and ends and where the competence and authority of food safety agencies in member states begin and end .
there are a number of things that undermine consumer confidence - lack of information is one .
but information which includes a fundamental disagreement between scientists on core issues relating to food safety is also an issue of serious concern .
we must attempt to avoid that and establish the structures so as to ensure that there is a proper dissemination of information between scientists , that there is full consultation and discussion and that the authority at community level has the opportunity and is mandated to seek the advice and opinion of independent scientists in all member states and indeed maybe even beyond , where experts are to be found elsewhere .
i recognise that the feo is located in dublin and , although i come from that part of the world myself , i have to accept that it is not the centre of europe !
the food safety authority 's situation is quite different .
an important part of the communication between the two institutions will obviously be to ensure that those of us who are involved in the drafting of legislation understand clearly and perfectly what it is the scientists mean , what problems they have identified , what legislation is necessary to deal with the issues they raise .
on this occasion we have had six minutes of questions from the floor of the house and we have had 29 minutes of response by the commissioner , and his statement .
that concludes the debate .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0003 / 2000 ) .
the commission acknowledges the fact that turkey has signed and ratified the convention on nuclear safety and recognises that the responsibility for granting licences and regulating the siting , construction , commissioning , operation and decommissioning of nuclear power plants in turkey rests entirely with the turkish atomic energy authority .
the commission does not have a mandate to impose any limits on decisions taken by any country in terms of energy production , including the nuclear option .
as commissioner wallstrom indicated during the hearings in the european parliament in september 1999 , the commission will bring up the issue of nuclear safety and radiation protection in any relevant meeting with the turkish government in the future and i am happy to inform you that i will have a meeting with the turkish foreign minister in a couple of days and will certainly raise the issue .
according to information received from the international atomic agency , the design of the plant takes into account the possibility of earthquakes stronger than any ever recorded in the area and particularly more than ten times stronger than the one registered in june 1998 in adana .
in this sense , all high seismic risk areas must be excluded a priori for nuclear installations such as this .
therefore , and given that the relationship between the european union and the commission and turkey has now changed , it would be a good idea if turkey discussed certain matters relating both to the safety of the area in general and the peaceful development of turkey within the european union .
a couple of weeks ago we had a debate in parliament on the nuclear safety issue with special regard to the candidate countries .
so what we did was use political means to convince some candidate countries that we have to have decommissioning plans for some reactors that are considered not to be upgradable .
if the conclusion is that turkey is planning to build a nuclear power plant that does not meet normal european safety standards is concerned then we would do the same as we did with lithuania , slovakia and bulgaria .
i believe that turkey completely recognises the standards and the criteria of the convention on nuclear safety and the non-proliferation treaty , but there is no doubt that there are concerns in the public in europe and i think it is quite right to discuss them here in parliament .
question no 29 by ( h-0786 / 99 ) : subject : depleted uranium weapons has the commission conducted any studies of the potential effects upon eu states of transboundary pollution arising from the use of depleted uranium weapons in the kosovan conflict ?
the commission has also been closely associated with the production of the recent report published by the united nations environment programme - balkan task force .
the balkan task force was hampered by the fact that little or no information was available on the actual use of these weapons during the conflict .
first of all , mr president , can i thank the commissioner for that very useful response .
clearly the commission has given some consideration to this problem and i am pleased that these reports which have been produced so far have looked carefully at the issue .
that is also mentioned in the report .
it is important to follow up and it gives the member states , as well as the united nations and the commission , something to think about when it is a matter concerning military secrets and their effects on the environment .
it also has a long-term effect on thinking when it comes to the use of these sorts of weapons .
i wanted to ask the commissioner whether it is true that soldiers of the nato armed forces now stationed in that region undergo special controls against nuclear radiation and that the same measures are not applied to civilians living in the area ?
what we know from the environmental side is what i have already mentioned , that there is now an environmental reconstruction plan , but when it comes to medical check-ups i do not have the information about that .
question no 30 by ( h-0793 / 99 ) : subject : appointment of a european union envoy for tibet in 1998 the tibetan government in exile received over 4000 tibetans who escaped over the himalayan mountains seeking freedom and refuge at risk of life and limb .
we are also doing a number of other things : in the european union-china human rights dialogue , we have focused on a number of practical steps , including sending experts on assignment to tibet , planning development assistance programmes and activities focusing on health , education and training for tibetans .
the appointment of an eu special envoy for tibet would be primarily a matter for the council to decide and parliament might care to take the issue up directly with them .
but for my part , i am not sure that it would add much practical value to our efforts .
it would be unlikely to have much impact on the chinese authorities and we already have effective channels of communication with the tibetan community in exile .
mr president , mr patten , of course , you are very well-qualified to comment on account of the time you spent in china , and you are well aware of how hard the tibetans are trying to initiate a debate , something which has always been blocked hitherto .
the possibility of stressing the importance of business and trade in the first place , but also making very sure that we include human rights in the equation , would be a step we should take in tandem with the european commission , rather than saying that it is a matter for the council .
let me make clear to the honourable member what the position is .
i am very much hoping in the next few months that the commission will be able to produce a communication on human rights pointing out , among other things , that there is no disjunction whatsoever between a regard for human rights in china or other places in the world and the trading and commercial interests and other interests of the european union .
during the few months that i have been a commissioner that has happened twice , first of all in new york at our meeting with minister tang and most recently at the meeting in peking and we will continue to make that concern manifest .
we are not just talking about human rights and the environment where tibet is concerned , rather it is about a unique cultural heritage that is also able to communicate important values such as peace , serenity , compassion - as the dalai lama would say - to us europeans .
like the honourable member i have read the autobiography of the dalai lama .
it is an extremely moving account , not just of his responsibilities in and towards tibet but also of his spiritual views as well .
at or around the time of president clinton 's visit to china , the president of the people 's republic of china gave the impression that dialogue was on the agenda .
it would be very beneficial , not just for tibet and for all those who believe in peace and stability in asia , but it would also be greatly to the credit of the government of the people 's republic of china if they were to respond to those attempts to begin a dialogue .
question no 31 by ( h-0795 / 99 ) : subject : commission 's rejection of legislation on proper administration in the eu according to newspaper reports , the commission has rejected the proposal by eu ombudsman jacob soderman for a citizens ?
in november 1999 the commission approved at first reading a code of good administrative behaviour to be incorporated into its rules of procedure .
at the moment the commission is consulting its staff representatives on the document , a process which will be finalised in the forthcoming weeks .
the commission will then adopt the code at second reading .
it should be noted that the new commission gave an immediate follow-up to the european ombudsman decision of 28 july 1999 in his own-initiative inquiry related to the code .
the commission would like to stress in particular that , in the drafting of the code , it has taken on board all the draft recommendations of the european ombudsman .
the code will be a document exclusively dealing with the relations of the commission 's administration with the public .
the document has been drawn up taking full account of the provisions contained in the draft prepared by the european ombudsman 's office .
however , it goes without saying that the commission adheres to the principle of regular political dialogue with the european parliament on all aspects of administrative reform .
mr president , i would like to thank the commissioner .
i want to thank the commission for what i perceive as a very positive answer .
i can go into that in detail if the honourable member would like but there is no doubt that we are on all fours with the ombudsman on this important issue .
as the author is not present , question no 32 lapses .
question no 33 by ( h-0829 / 99 ) : subject : ' mainstreaming ' in eu aid policy in 1995 the council drew up guidelines for integrating the equal opportunities dimension ( ' mainstreaming ' ) into the full range of eu aid policy .
the commission is prepared to look at the possibility of making an introduction to gender and development , part of the so-called induction courses for new staff , something that has been done already but not , i admit , on a regular basis .
the training of staff moving to the delegations in the different regions is another entry point .
the training then would be automatically performed without being compulsory .
we also aim to include training in these issues in the basic training that our officials receive in project cycle management .
as far as possible , we want to see this sort of training automatically built into programmes at the outset , instead of having to be tackled separately and later .
my own view as a former development minister is that these issues should be mainstreamed themselves and tackled at the heart of training and not turned into a sort of optional add-on .
the quest for equality should permeate the work of the directorate-general for development at all levels .
it is not to be brought in as a " sort of optional add-on " .
equality must permeate not only projects and programmes but also all overarching goals , action plans and strategies .
however , responsibility for ensuring that due attention is given to equality lies with departmental and unit managers .
i must not go on about books , but i have just been reading the book by david landis barnhill on what makes some countries prosperous and some countries less prosperous and it is interesting to see there the importance that he attaches to gender issues , in the economic prosperity and political stability of societies , going back millennia .
thirdly , one of the best approaches to this issue is to integrate gender as an important and cross-cutting issue into the most popular courses for development officials and above all perhaps for the project cycle management course which is key to good management of projects on the ground .
question no 34 by ( h-0831 / 99 ) : subject : aid for central asia what development aid and what humanitarian aid does the commission grant to the countries of central asia , and what is its assessment of the impact of this aid ?
the major part of european union aid has been provided under the tacis programme .
in 1998 and 1999 kyrgyzstan , kazakhstan , uzbekistan and turkmenistan received technical assistance of eur 75 million .
this assistance has delivered benefits in all sectors , in particular agriculture , infrastructure development , the private economy and the strengthening of institutions .
in addition to national programmes , the european union has supported important regional actions in the energy , transport and environmental sectors .
these programmes have benefited kyrgyzstan and to a more limited extent , tajikistan .
over the same period , kyrgyzstan received eur 17 million .
since 1993 the commission 's european community humanitarian office , echo , has been active in supporting the most vulnerable groups and sectors in tajikistan and kyrgyzstan .
in 1998 and 1999 eur 3.8 million was granted to kyrgyzstan and tajikistan received over eur 35 million , mainly for food , medical supplies , water and sanitation .
frequent monitoring and situation assessments have shown that european union assistance is contributing to the stability of these countries and therefore the ongoing peace process .
mr president , commissioner , there is a risk of central asia and the caspian sea becoming the balkans of the 21st century .
i can send the honourable member , if he would like , a detailed breakdown of exactly where we stand on the negotiation of partnership and cooperation agreements with each of the central asian republics .
he is absolutely right to say that a union which talks about conflict prevention should be looking at what it can do in these particular areas to ensure that there is not the sort of conflict in the future which has caused so much devastation in the balkans and which has cost us a great deal more than we might have had to spend otherwise , had we taken more pre-emptive measures if those had been possible .
our food programmes are directly related to structural reforms in agriculture as well as poverty alleviation .
those programmes themselves are intended to ensure that agriculture has a more soundly based position in those societies and does not consist simply of raping the land .
question no 35 by ( h-0778 / 99 ) : subject : greek action plan for employment according to the findings of the evaluation of action plans for employment , greece and italy are the main targets for criticism from the commission for not properly carrying out employment support measures and policies .
as far as mr papayannakis ' question is concerned , in the 1999 action plan for employment , the commission proposed certain recommendations for greece with a view to improving the efficiency of the action plan for employment .
the most important recommendations related to the need to improve efforts to reform public sector services , where problems exist , improve the statistical monitoring system and apply preventive policies in accordance with guidelines 1 and 2 of the action plan for employment .
we do not yet have the final results of these programmes and cannot yet tell if the quantitative objectives were achieved .
the greek government acknowledges the problem of its being unable to record human resources entering and leaving work and is therefore committed , firstly , to restructuring public sector employment services in greece , secondly , to setting up efficient employment promotion centres - this programme has already started but has not yet been completed - and , thirdly , to introducing a system of electronic employment cards and using suitable it systems to monitor all these policies .
the commission will keep a close watch on the greek government in order to ensure that it honours the commitments which it has made .
as you know , there are 22 guidelines on which each country is evaluated .
the commission will endeavour , for all these specific guidelines , to quantify the data and to obtain specific information based on the implementation of the new community framework for 2000 to 2006 .
the last meeting on the subject was held in november 1999 and we are waiting for the commission services ' final proposals on whether or not infringement proceedings will be instituted against denmark .
i noticed that the commissioner did not give a direct answer to the question of whether the danish early retirement pension scheme as a whole has been approved by the commission , but it was indirectly apparent that the answer was that it has not been .
the commissioner also more than hinted , of course , that a lot of consideration was being given to bringing the whole issue of the danish early retirement pension scheme before the court of justice in luxembourg , specifically on the grounds that the scheme actually discriminates against non-danish wage earners who are unable to fulfil the conditions , due to the fact that they have not been in paid work for the period required under the danish system .
i should like to ask the commissioner if she can provide any approximate deadlines in connection with this matter , for it is a problem which needs clarification in the context of the danish socio-political debate .
of course it is as you say .
the meetings of the working group are open and the first meeting was held on 11 january 2000 .
this is an important aspect of this initiative .
the last question concerns the amount granted .
mr president , i feel that the guidelines for the community equal initiative , especially the four actions described in it , will result both in complicated bureaucracy and , paradoxically , a non-transparent structure .
for example , one wonders how a development partnership will prove its cooperative spirit or its representative capacity , as required by action 2 in paragraph 33 of the guidelines .
finally , if you consider the overall amount , which is on the small side , - eur 2.8 billion for 15 member states - and how ambitious the objectives are , i am afraid that all we shall succeed in doing is to prove that unemployment is a bad thing .
the ban on discrimination is the rule in the package of directives and programmes which we submitted .
secondly , the leader initiative currently being studied gives special priority to development strategies which aim to give special support to women in small enterprises in the agricultural sector and in rural tourism , with a view to increasing the involvement of women in agricultural regions .
they are areas where there is much need and we have to put them on an equal footing with those areas where we work in cooperation , where almost none exists .
therefore , my question is whether you could examine the possibility that some of the policies on microcredits , which have brought results in cooperation , could be applied to those women in severely less-favoured regions , who have the odds stacked against them .
the lisbon european council is trying to take a new approach to the question of social exclusion and the link between social exclusion and the information society , economic policy and reforms .
these results will be most important in shaping the commission ' s social programme .
i have already told the european parliament that a joint meeting will be held in april between parliament and the commission , after the lisbon conference , so that all aspects can be discussed and the social programme for 2000-2006 can finally be drafted .
where i cannot commit myself is on your reference to legislative work in the social security area which , as you know , is not included in the articles of the treaty and there is no legal basis for social security questions in the treaty .
since the author is not present , question no 43 lapses .
question no 44 by ( h-0819 / 99 ) : subject : opportunities of the disabled to take advantage of freedom of movement within the eu under article 13 of the amsterdam treaty , it should be possible for all eu citizens to take advantage of freedom of movement within the union .
what measures is the commission taking to facilitate opportunities for the disabled in this area ?
as far as the package in question and people with special needs are concerned , there is a directive which concentrates on combating discrimination , especially in the workplace .
the european commission believes that this initiative to combat discrimination will help to increase the level of employment of people with special needs and , in the end , to promote the freedom of movement of these persons .
the european commission has approved a proposal for a directive on special arrangements in buses , coaches and other vehicles , so that people with special needs with mobility problems and people using wheelchairs have access to them .
in addition , you should know that , on 4 june 1998 , the council approved the recommendation for a pan-european type of parking permit to be introduced for people with special needs , the aim of which is to help them travel in all member states with a common permit so that they can take advantage of all organised parking areas throughout europe .
i think that a strategic decision of this sort can be taken at european level .
question no 45 by ( h-0006 / 00 ) : subject : compliance with directive 96 / 71 / ec concerning the posting of workers the posting of workers directive has still not been implemented in denmark , even though the deadline has passed .
however , such use of an agreement outside its specific scope cannot be imposed on the two sides of industry without a legal basis .
the european union posting of workers directive stipulates that the compulsory rules concerning the terms and conditions of employment applicable in the host country must also apply to workers posted to that country .
because denmark does not have a system for declaring collective agreements to be universally applicable rules , provision must be made in the implementing legislation so that , apart from current conditions of employment stipulated in legislation , the hours in universally applicable collective agreements , concluded by the most representative organisations , also apply to posted workers .
discussions are being held between the european commission and denmark , and denmark is expected to notify the commission of the transposition of this directive into its national legislation .
the deadline by which it had to answer the commission ' s questions expired on 6 december 1999 and we have not received a reply .
it is a very clear answer , but it is also an answer , may i point out , which puts danish organisations , the danish government and the danish parliament in a very , very difficult situation politically , for it is a well-known fact that there are a number of basic problems associated with the relationship between the danish model , which is based quite obviously upon collective agreements , and the continental model , which presupposes legislation .
as i said earlier , there are always problems interpreting the directives of the european commission both because they have a very general framework and because systems are very different from one country to another .
what now needs to be done , and this was the reason for the consultations and discussions between the commission and the danish government , and with other governments , is to find the best way forward , so that something which is decided at european level by all the member states , and which constitutes a general framework , can also include workers posted to denmark from other countries .
since the time allocated to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions 46 to 68 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , early last year , the 1997 discharge was postponed because this parliament could not possibly grant discharge to a resigning commission which could not enter into any commitments for the future .
it is an excellent opportunity for this parliament to introduce far-reaching reforms to these plans .
parliament requires a code of conduct for commissioners and cabinets .
parliament asked the commission to waive its excessive privileges .
these are sound , first steps which illustrate that , if this parliament so wishes , changes are not only possible but can also be translated into action quickly .
in the context of providing information , i would like to draw the commission ' s attention to the fact that we are very concerned about the present draft plans on public access to documents .
if the current draft is correct , then this is a huge step backwards in comparison to today .
this parliament has also asked the commission to give an initial outline of the external aid policy reforms on 31 march of this year .
mr president , since 1996 , the discharge has acquired a heavy , political significance .
mr president , the committee on industry decided to go ahead and draw up a report on the discharge for 1997 although we were not specifically asked to do so .
during the course of our work on this report it became clear that there are persistent problems in the spending areas under the control of our budget .
but we need that reform process .
it is an excellent report and we should all congratulate her on it .
there are two issues i would like to draw your attention to .
the committee of independent experts said the commission was not managing this properly .
the second point is about scrutiny mechanisms .
we need proper information , given in a proper way and we all have to take this whole process a lot more seriously than in the past .
it has been seen as a bureaucratic process to be done as quickly as possible in as little time as possible .
i hope colleagues in this house will support the grounds for discharge for 1997 and , at the same time , that the commission will push ahead with the reform process which is long overdue .
mr president , parliament now has to reach a decision , in plenary sitting , on whether to grant the commission the discharge for the 1997 financial year that was refused on 4 may last year .
i have taken note of what mrs schreyer had to say this morning on the complaint against the two banks and the support for creating protection under criminal law of the financial interests of the eu .
in addition , and after all this is important as far as the general impression held by the people is concerned , there is the fact that so far - at least as far as i know - the court of auditors has been unable to deliver a positive statement of assurance since this instrument was introduced .
it is , above all , the forthcoming enlargement of the eu to include the states of central and eastern europe that will produce far-reaching problems and impose burdens on internal structures and administrative developments .
as rapporteur for the 1998 budget , i would like to give advance warning that , in the course of the next few weeks and months , i intend to keep a very close eye on how and whether the commission implements its reform proposals and how it shapes relations with parliament in this very area .
the socialist group will be voting to grant discharge .
too often we have put forward recommendations and they have not been acted upon even though you have said very often that you will act on them .
one issue which is referred to in the van der laan report is the whole question of the gaza hospital .
the situation there is totally unacceptable .
i would like to congratulate lousewies van der laan .
mr kinnock will present his proposal next month .
the previous speaker already said something about this .
finally , mr president , the 1996 discharge was the beginning of the end of the last commission .
the union for a europe of nations group cannot vote for approving the accounts for 1997 .
again , i must say that we are concerned here with an extremely unfortunate confusion of the old commission ' s accountability for 1997 and the new commission ' s accountability for the future .
it was the 1996 accounts which led to the downfall of the previous commission , and the 1997 accounts are just as incriminating .
as far as the decision to balance the accounts is concerned , we shall abstain from voting , and where , finally , the motion for a resolution is concerned , we shall attach most importance to the many correct instructions contained in this and vote in favour of it .
if parliament votes in favour of the committee on budgetary control ' s proposal this week and grants discharge , then the commission must not take this to be a blank cheque .
for it is the third section of mrs van der laan ' s report that is the most important , to my mind , namely the motion for a resolution .
on 7 january 1994 , high-ranking officials in the commission took the decision to largely waive the penalty which the company concerned was actually due to pay and which amounted to almost eur 18 million .
this is also one of those cases that should be referred to the competent judicial authorities since , when all is said and done , allowing documents and minutes to disappear is no trivial offence but is expressly made a punishable offence in article 241 of the belgian criminal code .
mr president , we all recall that parliament decided to postpone the discharge for the 1997 financial year pending commitments from the new european commission regarding internal reform .
however , the reform of the european commission must now be taken in the context of the debate that is going to take place in the run-up to the forthcoming intergovernmental conference and the reform of various eu policies and initiatives .
mr president , the commission is now to obtain its discharge for 1997 , but in reality it does not deserve it . 1997 was a matter for the old commission and , therefore , the new commission does not think that it can accept liability .
mr president , rapporteur , ladies and gentlemen , i hope that i am able to answer the question as to whether we deserve to have the discharge granted in the affirmative .
mrs van der laan ' s report addresses all these instruments .
the report is very ambitious .
i would now like to look more closely at a number of points contained in the report .
we have debated this at great length in committee and also in the framework of the budgetary procedure for the year 2000 .
the commission has promised parliament that it will introduce measures in this regard in the very near future .
my fellow commissioner , mr chris patten , together with the other commissioners responsible for foreign policy , set up a review group , only at the end of last year , which is to undertake a very swift analysis of the tasks performed by the current technical assistance offices and consider which of the tasks should be carried out in a different form in future .
i undertook , back in the debate on the court of auditors ' report , to take up this point , which also features in this report - namely , carrying out a systematic follow-up - because i consider it to be necessary .
i would just like to again mention the staffing increase for which provision has been made in budget 2000 .
as far as the issues surrounding the gaza hospital and the palestinian parliament are concerned , i am able to tell you that the gaza hospital will be open and available to out-patients as of 15 july and to in-patients from 15 october 2000 .
all the reform measures i have mentioned are part of a global approach .
parliament ' s task is to supervise the activities of the commission , particularly within the framework of the discharge procedure .
the commission is very well aware of how resolutely and scrupulously the european parliament is exercising this supervision .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
on 15 march the committee published its first report concluding that : " it is becoming difficult to find anyone who has even the slightest sense of responsibility . "
within a few hours of the presentation of the report president santer announced the resignation of his entire team .
the resignation marked the end of a bitter struggle between an increasingly confident parliament and a european commission mired in allegations of scandal .
in a symbolic but significant gesture commissioners have voluntarily renounced their entitlement to the tax-free purchase of alcohol , tobacco , petrol and consumer goods .
the commission , in my opinion , has shown a clear and unprecedented commitment to change and for this they are to be congratulated .
the overall aim of the reforms must be to create a strong , honest european public administration equipped to carry out its tasks in an effective and efficient manner ; an administration in which officials are provided with the means to carry out their tasks and are held fully accountable at all levels ; an administration that recognises and rewards merit and encourages officials to develop their full potential .
in order to achieve this , action is required in four areas .
a new independent audit system service must be set up .
changes to the financial regulation will be required and parliament must have its say on those changes .
but while the commission must ensure that it respects the treaty and the financial regulation in the transitional phase , this must not be an excuse for inertia .
this requires a clear example to be set by commissioners and senior staff as well as adequate training and secondly , by reinforcing the existing mechanisms for dealing with fraud .
a proposal can be made , a proposal should be made , on the basis of article 280 of the treaty , by the middle of this year .
the european institutions should follow the example of a number of countries , most notably the united kingdom , and institute a committee for standards in public life , with a mandate to give advice on professional ethics and rules of conduct in the european institutions .
finally , the commission 's human resource policy must be modernised .
it is clearly no longer suited to the requirements of a modern , multinational organisation .
the social dialogue has often acted as a brake on reform and its overhaul is long overdue .
too many young , new officials are leaving their jobs after just a few years .
it must become more flexible and more responsible to labour market conditions .
commissioner kinnock will , tomorrow , present his communication on reform .
this communication must contain a clear timetable .
with a new commission and a new parliament up and running the momentum for reform is now as strong as it ever has been and probably ever will be .
now is the time for europe to put its own house in order ; to instil in its institutions - as the independent experts might have said - a sense of responsibility .
there is a very simple way to deal with those stories .
i would point out that there is no european legal system , but that a different legal system exists in each member state .
i agree that an investigation system should be introduced , but i am also absolutely convinced that we must recognise the right to equal respect for dignity and , in any case , the equal need for the right to a defence .
in conclusion , mr president , parliament must introduce a principle of democracy : we must implement reforms which allow parliament to grow and expand its powers , not go into reverse .
this debate on the van hulten report brings to a close one of the most traumatic periods for the european institutions since their creation in 1957 .
the refusal of the european parliament to grant discharge and the definitive refusal for the 1996 budget ; the motion of censure tabled in this house a year ago for differing reasons ; and the first report of the committee of independent experts on the reform of the commission which led to the mass resignation of the commission itself , are now part of european folklore .
now we come to the second report of the committee of independent experts which we already had the opportunity to welcome and briefly debate last september .
the knowledge that the framework relations between the european parliament and the european commission still remain to be negotiated led to our disagreement with the rapporteur when we debated his report in committee .
the less precise , mr van hulten , we are in our resolutions , the more room it gives the commission and your former colleagues in the council to do what they like .
we believe the vast number of recommendations of the wise men ' s report should be implemented .
we have , as the epp-ed group , submitted all the recommendations of the wise men ' s report in committee and many of them have now been put into the report , entirely changing the nature of the van hulten report in committee .
we have resubmitted a few amendments which fell in committee , in particular , our desire to see the codes of conduct revised specifically to include the reference to merit and managerial capacity which you , commissioner , accepted - when we had our hearings last september - should be included in these codes of conduct , particularly when considering appointments and promotion .
looking to the future , we know that we are at the beginning of a long process of continuing reform in the european commission .
but , equally , we will not hesitate to withdraw our support financially or otherwise should steps be taken which do not correspond to the openness promised by commission president romano prodi prior to his nomination .
can i first thank mr van hulten for this report .
it is an excellent report .
i should like to thank commissioner kinnock for all his efforts so far .
it is clear that this needs to be developed at all levels and it needs to recognise the needs of each level within the commission .
it is clear that we need to see a change in the financial regulation .
this is natural elsewhere but it seems to be an extremely radical suggestion when it is put to the commission .
i will give you one example of this .
in the 1998 court of auditors report an exchange rate miscalculation in relation to italian wine cost the taxpayers of europe gbp 8 to 10 million .
but we also recognise that some of the practices are outdated .
the european parliament has not exactly been clean in its approach to things throughout its history .
our own staff policy is outdated .
we recognise that means discipline on the part of commission officials and we recognise also that we have a responsibility within parliament on discipline when we talk about negative priorities .
the fate of the commission , of the whole european union , rests on delivery of this reform .
it is his first report here in plenary .
in my opinion , this is mainly down to the wrangling between the two major groups within our committee on budgetary control .
he went back to work , rewrote his report and took into account the very many suggestions , but had to face nearly another 100 amendments in the second round .
mr van hulten , my group of the greens and regionalists will support the attempts in tomorrow afternoon ' s plenary meeting to embellish this report .
after all , it makes no sense to copy the many sound recommendations made by the committee of wise men word for word in your report .
so tomorrow , if we vote against some amendments or against specific paragraphs , this is certainly not on account of their content but rather to render your report as a whole more readable .
in any case , it should be clear that my group , of course , fully backs the recommendations made by the committee of wise men .
i think that there is a need for this , as public opinion is looking for change and , in any event , my group would like to see a clear change by the end of 2002 .
mr president , this report is positive but , actually , we need more than this .
this is only useful as long as there is a sense of solidarity where rich member states contribute to both the revenue and development of poorer member states .
districts and regional authorities consider this as their own money but they can only get their hands on this by investing vast amounts of money and manpower in lobbying and negotiating .
even the strictest control cannot solve this problem .
it would be preferable if national governments channelled this money directly to their local governments without a european detour .
mr president , a year has not yet passed , but it is already clear that parliament is going to evaluate the first and second reports differently .
reading now what happened then , not even a year ago , it becomes clear that that first report was intended to do anything but serve the cause of truth or reform , as is maintained today , so much so that this second report - which , on the other hand , could have provided much more salient points - was commissioned with the precise mandate not to address specific cases , since there is no intention to follow up the offences detailed in this report .
it is of no concern to the major groups in parliament , nor to the majority of the trade unions , who are busy discussing the defence of european public administration , but , in practice , are occupied with the corporate protection of their own members , putting the wide powers afforded to them to dubious use .
i therefore understand why we are meeting at this time , which is usually set aside for other activities and not for debates , discussions and the exchange of information .
mr president , in the van hulten report , parliament underlines the harsh necessity for a thorough reform of financial administration .
expenditure must be monitored much more closely , both within the commission and the member states .
the committee of wise men ' s report also has some necessary points to make to the council and parliament .
for example , the council should attach far more importance to the commission ' s discharge procedure .
the question arises as to whether parliament is in fact prepared to find a way out of this impasse .
this week , the rothley opinion was discussed within the legal affairs committee and there was nothing to indicate any such willingness .
this may explain why we experienced more difficulties than anticipated in the committee on budgetary control as regards this issue .
as we see it , there will be a dovetailing of three mechanisms in the future : a system of independent prior approval by the financial controller , concomitant and follow-up control by the internal audit service - also known as the audit service - which has yet to be set up , and finally , there will be the targeted tracking-down of irregularities by olaf , the new anti-fraud office .
it is a good feeling to be able to say that he is from our delegation and i am , i think , entitled to feel a little proud of him .
a lack of responsibility , too much ex ante , not enough ex post and , as a result , far too little in the way of a culture of real effective spending .
there are two points which , in my opinion , deserve special attention on the part of the eldr .
this will contribute hugely towards re-establishing the confidence of the european citizens in this institution .
mr president , i also wish to congratulate mr van hulten on this first piece of work which he is presenting to the house .
i do not know your exact view in this respect , mr kinnock , but it is clear that we want commissioners who are politically strong and politically committed .
we have not done this so far , and this is something you ought to be instrumental in changing .
i do not agree with the paragraphs in relation to parliament .
this report is about the commission .
there is no need for us to bring parliament into the discussion on the commission .
most of the report is about financial control .
but we should not create the impression that vast amounts of european resources are being put at risk by carelessness in the european commission .
we have had all that before but some people in this parliament are young and do not seem to understand how small the financial resources of the european union are and that 80 % of these resources are spent by the member states .
that wider responsibility concerns the management of the environment , food safety , foreign trade , the internal market and so many other responsibilities we have given them without the resources to deal with them .
if there is , we have generated it in this house in the past year .
i have been here for 20 years and found absolute trust between the council , the commission and parliament .
the process of reform has been going on for some time , and something like a state of emergency seems to prevail in the commission .
there is too little action and too much unnecessary bureaucracy .
the financial regulation should be amended .
what we need , then , are basic administrative regulations for the eu , for its institutions and for the eu in its relations with the member states .
the van hulten report is a step in the right direction , but it is not enough .
it is the european parliament which is to carry out the political evaluation .
mr president , i would like to extend a warm thank you to the rapporteur for his report .
these two considerations are diametrically opposed to each other , and i really fail to grasp how such a proposal can end up on the table .
the van hulten report started out as a brilliant one and i would like to pay deep and sincere tribute here to what mr van hulten achieved .
mr president , mr van hulten , your work is worthy of being qualified as enterprising , arduous and complex , and i believe this is important in a first report .
please therefore accept what i am about to say as being criticism made in the spirit of honest debate , and i believe that in this way our debate here today will be richer .
clearly we are awaiting this reform from the commission , we are awaiting the proposals which the commission is going to make to us and this parliament will have to express its opinion on them .
i am not going to mention the length of this report .
i do not believe that there has ever been a resolution - and in this parliament we certainly produce complex resolutions - which has had paragraphs of more than 16 lines without a single full stop .
and finally , mr president , frankly , i am not going to give examples , but there are many cases in which legal language is used with an alarming lack of accuracy .
mr president , the scope and highly detailed nature of the proposals for necessary reform measures show just how important these reforms are .
she knows me well enough to understand that at all stages in the five years in which we worked together in this house , there has never been a single occasion on which i have refused to account in full , formally and in detail for everything i have done .
although new to this house he is relatively old in some respects , certainly in his familiarity with the institutions as a former official - and i think that the value of that is shown by his ability to tackle the complex subject which is of critical importance , as several members have said , to all of our institutions .
naturally i will not take up any more of the time of the house than is absolutely necessary .
when this house considered the second report of the committee of experts last september , i pledged on behalf of the incoming commission that the report would be treated as a fundamental ingredient in the commission 's reform proposals .
though time forbids me , mr president , from commenting in this debate on each element in the resolution before the house , i readily give the assurance that the details will be treated as an important input into our reform proposals throughout this consultation and indeed to our work in other relevant areas .
the need for transparency is rightly stressed , not least because greater transparency in the way in which the commission operates will improve the efficiency and will also demystify what the commission does .
as the house knows and has repeatedly said , the scale and scope of the union 's financial interventions have grown immensely in the past decade without a proportionate increase in staffing or an adjustment in procedures .
several members have made that point again in the course of today 's debate .
the means of doing that are set out in the reform strategy and the commission will present its proposals for a radical recasting of the financial regulation in april .
parliamentary support in pursuing that essential course for change will be absolutely vital .
there are preparations which can be made and they are specified and set out with the full reassurances in the reform strategy , but enactment of change in the legislation is obviously of fundamental importance to the operation of the new system .
essentially - and with legal change - the commission will systematically move away from the current centralised system of prior approval of each financial transaction by the financial controller and instead strengthen the internal control systems within spending departments so that directors-general are better equipped to take responsibility for decisions with an impact on the european union budget .
that service will open on 1 may this year .
it will be headed by a professionally qualified member of the audit profession and its independence must and will be guaranteed through a new provision to be added in the financial regulation .
financial control ' s ex ante visa for each spending department will only be relinquished as and when the internal control system in a department is shown to be fully adequate .
i am somewhat surprised that paragraph 10 of the draft resolution does not appear to address the fundamental criticisms of the current centralised financial control function made in both reports of the committee of independent experts .
that committee was very clear about the need to abolish the centralised ex ante visa .
it was clear too on the need to separate internal audit from financial control .
in addition , i do not believe that paragraph 10 fully reflects the opinion of the court of auditors in 1997 .
at the same time , the internal audit function is carried out in an uncoordinated way by several bodies , notably the same financial controller , the inspectorate general and by some units operating directorates-general . " the centralised ex ante approval system was doubtlessly originally designed to ensure carefulness but , over the years , it has had the perverse effect of reducing the extent to which managers feel responsible for their decisions .
i take it from paragraph 10 that the underlying preoccupation of honourable members is that there should be a carefully managed transition .
our objective , the committee ' s objective , the court of auditors ' objective is not to abolish financial control , it is to get rid of and improve upon centralised financial control .
before leaving this area i would add that we agree with the rapporteur that the existing internal audit function must be maintained pending the establishment of the new independent internal audit service in a matter of months .
turning quickly to the section of the resolution on fighting fraud , corruption , mismanagement and nepotism : the major new proposal of the report concerns reporting by commission officials of perceived wrong-doing .
since june of last year , the olaf regulation has given better guidance to staff about reporting possible irregularities .
i am persuaded , however , by the suggestion in paragraph 34 of the report on using external bodies to enforce existing provisions on financial liability .
a communication in june will set out the full proposal for change .
with the introduction of a series of codes of conduct the current commission has begun to develop an explicit ethical framework .
the draft resolution rightly recalls the commission 's accountability to this parliament .
president prodi and vice-president de palacio and other colleagues have demonstrated the commission 's practical commitment to that .
i hope that we will soon be able to agree a code of conduct on relations between our institutions which will include updated rules on access to documents .
the report rightly emphasises the central importance that human resources policy must have in reform .
i also want to move towards a linear career system because the current category system is no longer adapted to the needs of our institutions .
members , who , in the course of this debate , have properly praised commission officials , who in the great majority and typically are of high integrity , hard-working and of great capability , are absolutely right in the comments that they have made .
while the reform strategy white paper will clearly outline our ideas on these and other points , detail and precision are obviously essential .
on this latter point we are reflecting on whether it might be useful to adopt a framework regulation which makes common provision on leading issues like pay , conditions , staff representation rights and so on , but enables the different institutions to operate implementing rules on other matters .
the early thoughts of parliament on this consultative idea would be especially welcome .
i conclude by referring to paragraph 15 of the resolution before the house relating to the resource requirements of our policies for change .
secondly , it is also clear that reform will require some new investment in training for skills and in technology .
it is also clear that if we take on new tasks - which we will surely be asked to do by the council and parliament - we will have to identify so-called " negative priorities " and drop those negative priorities in order to create spare capacity .
a central feature of the reform will therefore be a more rigorous process for tying the process of priority-setting into resource allocation under a system of activity-based management .
the commission therefore welcomes paragraph 15 of mr van hulten 's report .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.15 p.m. )
peace in the middle east concerns us all , however .
the increase in the number of positive results demonstrates the efficiency of the system and there is a continuing increase in the number of reports .
we are also preparing a communication to instigate a debate on means of ensuring greater security in the information and knowledge society and in combating computer crime .
the debate is closed .
i do not know if you are aware , representatives of the council of ministers , of your responsibility over these last few years , and in 2000 as well , for the plight of the families who live on anchovy fishing in the north of the iberian peninsular .
we should , however , also bear in mind , mr papayannakis , that we cannot act in an area which will have such a big financial impact , armed only with the measures a presidency can propose in the space of six months .
since the author is not present , question no 13 lapses .
this is a dimension which it is difficult to go beyond within the framework of the european union , and especially within the framework of the council .
well , i , and my fellow 35 british conservative meps wish it and would like you to please consider it .
after this interesting exchange of opinions , and in accordance with the rules of procedure , i would like to tell you that questions nos 17 to 27 will be replied to in writing .
one reason for the acceptance of this proposal , and of the campaigns by ngos such as attac , solidar or others which have popularised this proposal , is that it would release resources which could be allocated to development programmes in the poorest countries , in areas such as education or health .
it could act as a kind of asset redistribution in a world where there is both increasing wealth and increasing poverty .
many personalities and institutions have come out in favour of this tax such as the brazilian president , fernando cardoso , the finnish government , the canadian parliament last march and also lionel jospin in 1995 .
this question has been debated in several national parliaments of the eu .
europe must play a role in this new international regulation and i am extremely happy that today , with this debate and this motion , this question is now on the agenda of european construction .
madam president , i do not have a great deal to add on this subject .
mr desir too has mentioned this growing interest on all sides .
but if the tobin tax were to be applied unilaterally in order to prevent attacks on a specific currency , then this tax could not be effective and it could harm the internal financial market .
so the tobin tax can only be effective if there is a sufficient number of industrialised countries which are prepared to participate .
at any rate , the commission is against any attempt to restrict capital movement within the european union .
the tobin tax would not have been able to prevent the crises in the eea in 1992 and 1993 or the crises in the south-east asian currencies in 1997 .
madam president , the debate on a tax on short-term financial actions is not a new one .
furthermore - since we are in this european parliament - if we have still not managed the slightest agreement with regard to the package of fiscal measures proposed by the commission within the european union , how can we expect to achieve a fiscal agreement on an international level ?
this is due to progressive opening up and greater freedom in the international trade in goods and services and also a greater capacity for adequate movement of capital .
there should be no confusion in this debate .
as for the argument that this initiative would increase uncertainty , very short-term capital movements are specifically intended to play on uncertainty and to bet on changes between currencies or various short-term financial assets .
however , i would highlight not only paragraph 9 of the motion , but also paragraph 10 .
however , i agree with the previous speaker that , if paragraph 9 were challenged , this motion would clearly lose its substance .
i would point out that the european union is composed of a large number of industrialised countries and , like mr desir and several other speakers , i feel that the european union which we are forming can take the initiative in this respect .
in the last 30 years , the volume of currency transactions has increased by 83 times : firstly , total global reserves of all central banks barely amounts to one day of foreign exchange trading ; secondly , annual global trade in real goods and services equals just three-and-a-half days of foreign exchange markets out of 350 , that is , 1 % of capital movements are for trade in goods and services and 99 % are for speculation .
of course , this cannot be done in one country ; it cannot be done within the single currency area , but it could be done at international level with global cooperation .
europe , japan and the us - the euro , the yen and the dollar , would constitute , in my opinion , such a block .
madam president , commissioner , a compromise resolution on the usefulness of a tax on international financial flows would constitute a first step towards the essential amendment of many international rules .
i have two or three points to make in this respect .
one of the main demands of the demonstrators in seattle was , rightly , the establishment of this type of tax , and this is not by chance .
we need a tobin tax to give us a fiscal instrument with which we can intervene .
article 73 c of the treaty establishing the european union provides scope for taxation on transactions .
the low rate tobin tax would not cause tax-recycling problems .
madam president , i can assure your parliament that my day-to-day work consists partly of attempting , in conjunction with my offices and colleagues , to completely integrate the financial markets within europe , thus enabling financial transactions to run as easily and smoothly as possible .
if we have not been able to reach agreement internally , i wonder whether we will then be able to convince the other trade partners .
so i believe the best way to tackle the causes is by ensuring , on the one hand , that good governance is observed in the countries in question and that , on the other hand , there is more supervision nationally and internationally in order to avoid these lapses .
my reply to this is that , firstly , countries should honour their pledges , namely make 0.7 % of their gross national product available for development aid and cooperation , so that a great deal more money becomes available than at present for such long-term projects and via a route established for the purpose , namely contributions to development cooperation , and not via an artificial and probably harmful route , namely the tobin tax .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday , 21 january 2000 .
madam president , allow me to remind you that tomorrow will be the second anniversary of the cermis tragedy .
two years ago , in cavalese in italy , an american aeroplane from the aviano nato base cut through the cables of a cable car during a low-flying exercise which exceeded safe limits , causing the deaths of more than 20 europeans .
madam president , it would really be very difficult to imagine a debate which is more in accordance with rule 50 of our rules of procedure .
madam president , i shall speak against this proposal on the grounds of a principle which i consider absolutely vital with regard to observance of the treaties , and with particular regard to article 7 of the treaty of amsterdam .
well , patently , if we do open this debate today , madam president , as you are requesting and as the conference of presidents is requesting , on the basis of rule 50 , we shall then be opening up a fearsome breach in the principle of the freedom and sovereignty of the national states and the free constitution of democratically elected governments , enabling some other majority in this parliament , at some future time , to claim the right to interfere in the formation of a government even though it has assumed power on the basis of free , regular , peaceful and democratic elections within a member state .
mr gollnisch , excuse me , you have one minute .
madam president , i thought i had three minutes .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i have been requested , on behalf of the portuguese presidency of the european union , to state our position to this parliament on the current political situation in austria and its consequences for relations between that country and the union ' s other member states .
the text of this joint statement has a clearly defined scope and purpose : the bilateral relationship between each of these fourteen countries and an austrian government which now comprises members of that country ' s freedom party .
let me remind you of what this statement said . 1 - the governments of the fourteen member states shall not initiate or accept any official bilateral contacts at political level with an austrian government which includes the freedom party . 2 - austrian candidates for posts in international organisations will not have the support of these fourteen countries . 3 - austrian ambassadors in the union ' s capitals will only be received in the technical sense .
basically , the view these states share of the political situation in austria led them to conclude that the possible inclusion in the austrian government of a party such as the freedom party could bring about a change in respect for the common values which the member states of the european union are committed to safeguarding .
those elections showed - and this also needs to be emphasised - that the great majority of austrians are still not in favour of mr haider ' s party .
austria has every right to choose the government it wishes , but we also have a right and duty to state our opinion on any political choices which we feel infringe austria ' s international commitments .
today this applies to austria , but tomorrow it could apply to any other country in the european union . ( applause ) let me repeat that point : this applies to austria today and it would apply tomorrow to any member state of the european union .
it already stated yesterday that it shared the concerns expressed by 14 member states of the union , concerns that have been reiterated here by the representative of the presidency .
the duty of a strong supranational institution is not to isolate one of its members , but instead to permanently bind it to its deep-seated values .
indeed , the european union would not survive without the principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights .
these principles form an integral part of the rule of law , and the commission , which is the guarantor of that rule of law , will be relentless in upholding them .
founded over 900 years ago , bologna university , my alma mater , is the oldest university in the world .
in recognition of this , as the first act of my presidency , i chose to visit auschwitz , in order to say loud and clear , in the silence that is proper and fitting for such a place of memory , that europe has not forgotten , and to repeat that the europe of today and tomorrow is , can only be and will always be a union of freedom , law , security and peace .
we condemn the faux pas he has made in the last few days , especially those against the french president , jacques chirac , and the belgian government .
we , the ppe-de group , champion human dignity , the state under the rule of law , democracy and freedom , and we defend these principles and values across the political spectrum . ( applause ) the christian democrats , who form a key element of our group - and a great many people are probably unaware of this - evolved from the opposition to the totalitarianism of national socialism , which was every bit as inhuman , but also to the totalitarianism of those despisers of mankind , the communists . ( applause ) as the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and of the european democrats , we also represent today the values of the founding fathers of european unification - robert schuman , alcide de gasperi , konrad adenauer and winston churchill , and there were many others - and the values of the founders of europe are our values , even today in the year 2000 .
at this point i would say : we have faith in our austrian friends in the austrian european people ' s party . ( applause ) we must not forget that the european people ' s party , together with alois mock and wolfgang schussel - one was the minister for trade and commerce and the other was the foreign minister - was the party that did the most to pave the way for austria ' s entry into the european union .
we anticipate that a government under the leadership of the ovp , if it comes to that , will represent and uphold the values and principles of our european people ' s party , and these principles constitute an unequivocal declared belief in the dignity of all human beings and in tolerance towards all human beings .
we do not want there to be isolation within europe , rather we want to bring the peoples of europe together , so as to enable the future of our continent in the twenty-first century to be one of freedom , democracy and peace . ( loud applause from the ppe-de group ) madam president , president of the commission , president-in-office of the council , the group of the party of european socialists hopes that this debate will send three messages to the european public .
firstly , we wish to express our total support for , and our solidarity with , the statement of the presidency-in-office of the council and the 14 member states , because we believe that this statement is in accordance with the common values , and not just the political force , which we have all built together .
i also believe that the commission , or president prodi , has acted as a guardian of the treaties .
secondly , madam president , we wish to send a very clear message to the austrian people .
therefore , madam president , i believe that it is our right and our obligation to ask the austrians to reconsider and reflect , because this type of menace , which we have suffered before in europe , may not only harm austria , but it may also spread , and i say this bearing history in mind .
we support the council and we believe that it is our right and our obligation to appeal to the austrian people to seriously reconsider this completely crazy option . ( applause from the pse group ) madam president , my group welcomes this debate because it is a defining moment .
that may be , but let me place on the record today a long and difficult experience which we liberal democrats had with the austrian fpo in our liberal international family .
words in politics can be incendiary , can be inflammatory , or can be conciliatory .
we respect the rights of the austrian people to their own democratic process .
we defend the rights and constitutional prerogatives of the austrian people , but we here in the european parliament have the duty to recall our fundamental values as set out in article 6 of the treaty - the values of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights .
every right-thinking person in this house believes that these are universal and indivisible without regard to colour , class or creed .
i share with president prodi a preference for the community method and we must look at article 6 and article 7 of the treaty .
article 7 talks about the possibility of suspension in the event of serious or persistent breaches of our fundamental values .
then we can work together by the community method to root out this cancer within our midst .
mr schussel - you are assuming a very serious , personal , national and european responsibility .
finally , madame president , this is a debate which touches on the heart of our democratic values and institutions and calls to mind that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance .
for the first time , the european union is facing the possibility of having representatives in the council of ministers and here among us of a party which obviously holds views and puts forward legislation contrary to the values of the european union .
i feel , finally , that this is a case of political decline of the european union as such and it therefore also sends a negative message outside the union , when we are speaking in the name of democracy and human rights .
i have heard , mr poettering , that you have been following events in austria .
the european union has certainly previously known situations where there were people in a member state government whose ideas and actions were in contradiction to the guiding values of the union .
the great joining of forces in protest in vienna on 12 november last year must now undergo developments suited to the new situation .
this debate is now before us , but each and every one of us , male and female , is going to assume their responsibilities without delay . ( applause ) madam president , we could have been debating the need to reinforce the founding principles of the union , so that we can uphold them together .
we believe in europe , while it seems that others have started the process of breaking up the union .
if we were to apply the criteria of articles 6 and 7 or the copenhagen criteria to the european union , then , most certainly , this european union could not become a member , although the countries of eastern europe are required to meet them .
we might well wonder why 76 % of belgian citizens have no faith in the justice system in their country or why 56 % of french citizens have no confidence in their country ' s system of justice , and 53 % of italian citizens have absolutely no confidence in italian justice ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) madame president , my group , the edd , and especially my party , are very concerned by this debate .
we also , however , deplore the fact that your parliament should consider interfering in the policies of an elected government of any country , especially one which is part of the european union .
then , and only then , might you consider if human rights are affected .
your parliament may consider measures appropriate to counter that situation and then , madame president and only then , may your parliament consider interfering in the constitutional affairs of a country of the european union .
madam president , as a representative of the freedom party , i respect the concerns some of my fellow meps have with regard to the democratic developments in austria .
the fpo party is established in austria ' s political landscape .
what many austrians are wondering today is why their democratic decision has suddenly been interpreted as an expression of a fascistic cast of mind , and why the campaign did not begin until the freedom party rejected the support of a minority government comprising the spo ?
i am filled with disgust when certain of our opponents get mileage out of the millions of deaths that took place in the gas chambers of the concentration camps as cheap propaganda , as , for example , the italian mep bertinotti did yesterday on italian tv when he accused mr haider of denying the holocaust .
the attacks against austria ' s new government and the attempts to exert political influence in a member state are an insult to the austrian people .
the austrian people ' s party , which i represent here in this parliament , used to be and still is a party that has consistently spoken up for the integration of my country into the eu and feels deeply attached to the community of values that is the european union , and likewise its basic political principles of deepening and enlargement .
a declared belief in human rights , democracy and the rule of law , in an honest reappraisal of austria ' s role in the past , in passing on information on the gravest crime against humanity in the 20th century , the holocaust , will also be reflected in the fundamental accord underlying a future coalition government between the ovp and fpo .
i believe - as do many who for years have campaigned against haider and his brand of politics , and especially my colleagues in the social democratic delegation in this chamber - that the various measures announced by the international community , insofar as they do not have any bearing on the government and its representatives , are grave and also inappropriate .
and that includes their representatives in this parliament .
however , in my view , he will be no more able or willing to be integrated into this , into our political system , and into the europe of today , than any other extreme right-wing movement .
we know that most austrians respect these values .
the fact that we are stressing this is all the more important because , as you know , we essentially disagree with the policies made by europe , with its economic and social policies , its democratic deficit and the member states ' involvement in the terrible war in the balkans .
the position taken by the presidency has shown that it is aware of this tragedy for civilisation .
madam president , despite the fundamental democratic principle of the respect for human rights and the freedom and sovereignty of peoples , which opposes fascism , nazism or communism , both new and old , and despite all the previous speakers talking about the sovereignty of the austrian people , we are today witnessing this sovereignty being denied by parliament .
in the manifesto of the austrian democratic freedom party , there is nothing to justify the accusations that it is attacking the principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights , fundamental freedoms or the rule of law , enshrined in article 6 of the treaties .
we are debating nothing less than the presence in a member state ' s government of a political force whose doctrine and principles are incompatible with the conceptual and moral bases of the union enshrined in its founding treaties .
a simple reading of chapter 4 , article 1 of the austrian freedom party ' s manifesto is enough to make any democratic conscience shudder .
the question is whether the union can remain indifferent to the formation of a government in a member state which includes such a party .
our answer to this crucial question is no .
the one and only significance of the european union is the will to transcend the atrocious history of the twentieth century which gave the coup de grace to any ideal of humanism within the heart of europe , and which is still highly topical today .
of course , the treaty provides us with a barrier when things become intolerable ; i was almost going to say ' irreparable ' .
madam president , i am pleased about the fact that , in austria , the will of the large majority of the people is being respected and that this formation of government constitutes , in my eyes , a huge victory for democracy .
let there be no doubt about it : we decline with thanks a europe which develops into a kind of " big brother " and which keeps watch over left-wing political correctness in one member state or another in a stalinist way and using stalinist methods .
today , we thank the austrian people for this democratic triumph which is important to all nations within europe and to anyone who feels particularly strongly about freedom and freedom of speech .
my delegation of 37 conservative and unionist members from the united kingdom reject absolutely the underlying philosophy , programme and tone of austria ' s freedom party .
madam president , representative of the council , commissioner , a week ago , the big international holocaust conference ended in stockholm .
secondly , i want to say that we must be consistent in our own behaviour and in our evaluations .
it is not acceptable to continue as if nothing had happened .
the austrian freedom party leader , mr haider , has repeatedly repudiated these values .
we keep reminding them about article 6 of the treaty .
first of all , could i express my thanks on behalf of president prodi and my colleagues in the commission for the support and understanding offered by several members of the house to the position taken by the commission in the statement that we made yesterday .
we made explicit reference yesterday morning in our statement , as did the president this afternoon , to the fact that we share the concern demonstrated by fourteen member states in their statement on monday .
secondly , we said , in very specific terms , that we will work closely with all member states in examining the situation as it develops in austria .
and , when i say that the commission took that view , i include my dear colleague franz fischler , who is from austria ; and who , once again , demonstrated his integrity and his independence as a member of the european commission , under oath , in being part of that statement that we made yesterday morning .
i say that in friendship and honour to my friend and colleague , franz fischler .
in order to ensure that the treaty is upheld and that we sustain what was described as the community machine , we are following the course of action which was set down in our statement yesterday .
that is our duty .
and , when we recall that , like many others on all sides of this house , my and my colleagues ' instincts are naturally aroused .
however , the commission has to act on the basis of values and law and not only on the basis of instinct .
thank you , commissioner kinnock .
the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed .
the precautionary principle is not a new concept .
it involves taking action in a given policy area when the science is not clear , but where there are reasonable grounds for concern that the potential risks are big enough to require action .
we also hope that the communication will help to build a better common understanding of how to manage risks and to dispel fears that the precautionary principle might be used in an arbitrary way or as a disguised form of trade protectionism .
the commission ' s starting point in applying the precautionary principle is the need to ensure a high level of protection in the fields of environmental , human , animal and plant health .
as such , while the precautionary principle does not involve the politicisation of science , as some have alleged , it does take us to the crossroads between science and politics .
the initial decision to apply the precautionary principle depends largely on the level of protection sought and the level of risk that decision-makers are prepared to accept for society .
this communication does not pretend to be the final word on this issue ; however , it is the first time that the commission has presented a structured presentation of the principle and its operational use .
mr president , commissioner , thank you very much for your statement .
yes , i would say we already use this way of working with different , difficult issues like a new chemical strategy for example .
mr president , commissioner , regarding the relationship between science , on the one hand , and applying the precautionary principle on the other , the communication states that invoking that precautionary principle always requires a political decision if there is a lack of scientific evidence .
they have to look at , for example , the concerns of people in relation to a special issue , and they have to judge from what is known about the scientific evidence in a certain case .
however , it is true that it does not need a big majority of the scientific community to be able to use the precautionary principle .
it can be used on evidence from a minority or where science is incomplete .
you have to decide whether you want to put people in danger , for example , or if you want to protect the environment ; and you have to look at the science that is available .
mr president , i have a question concerning an actual , concrete case in which it should be possible to apply the precautionary principle .
the first question concerns the implementation of the precautionary principle .
my second question concerns the burden of proof .
the second question concerns the reversed burden of proof .
consideration should be given to what science is offering in the way of knowledge , and this should be used as an important political tool for protecting the environment and people ' s health .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
intergovernmental conference the next item is the report ( a5-0018 / 2000 ) by mr dimitrakopoulos and mr leinen , on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs , on the convening of the intergovernmental conference [ 14094 / 1999 - c5-0341 / 1999 - 1999 / 0825 ( cns ) ] .
the intergovernmental conference that is about to begin is important , both in a general sense and more particularly in view of the imminent enlargement .
this is because the helsinki agenda is limited to consideration only of the three issues that relate in a fragmentary way to the structure and operation of just two of the european union ' s institutional bodies .
granted this , the new intergovernmental conference must not fail to include in its agenda issues which , properly addressed , would ensure the correct operation of all and not just some of the european union ' s institutions .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , in common with my co-rapporteur , mr dimitrakopoulos , i take the view that the agenda agreed on in helsinki is not up to meeting the challenges that enlargement of the eu by 13 new states will bring .
on 18 november 1999 , we named the key points on our agenda for the intergovernmental conference 2000 .
i would just like to reiterate a few points : provisions for reinforced cooperation with these 20 and 25 member states , integrating security and defence policy into the community framework , incorporating the charter of citizens ' rights into the new treaty , constitutionalising the union by dividing it into a main part and a subsidiary part , reforming article 48 so that when it comes to future treaty amendments , parliament will play a real part in the negotiations on an equal footing , and - another thing worthy of mention - a statute for european parties so that the next european elections are actually fought on the basis of european issues rather than taking the form of national debates on domestic policy .
in addition to a wider agenda we also want an improved method for the elaboration of this new european treaty .
in the interests of the citizens , we must provide for greater transparency in the political process during the intergovernmental conference .
all the more reason for the representatives of the european parliament to participate fully in the preparation group , at ministerial level as well as at the meetings of the european council , insofar as this council concerns itself with matters pertaining to the intergovernmental conference .
the national governments decided to open this intergovernmental conference on 14 february .
the opinion we are placing before you is a clear signal to the governments not to miss the last opportunity we will have before enlargement to implement ambitious reforms within the eu and to raise the level of acceptance of this next european treaty , which is more transparent and provides for the full participation of parliament .
i too would like to thank the portuguese presidency and commissioner barnier for their cooperation .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all , i would like to express my gratitude for the confidence the previous two speakers have expressed in the work the portuguese presidency has done on this subject .
i believe that the mechanism we have proposed for this conference has been very well received by the various governments .
i would like to add that our understanding is that they will be able to participate fully , just like any other group member appointed by a member state or representing the commission .
i also consider that in choosing its foreign minister to chair the ministerial group , the portuguese presidency is also trying to give a signal that it wishes to ensure that the president of the european parliament has a sufficiently high-level representative and not one at a level which could conceivably be interpreted as being less worthy of the role of the president of an institution such as this parliament .
we have taken note of the proposals put forward by the commission .
we also hope to be able to hand over to the french presidency something tangible and as representative as possible of the links that may be established between the member states in the course of our work .
mr president , the group of the european people ' s party was not satisfied with the conclusions of the european council in helsinki .
the european council in helsinki itself approved enlargement involving 13 new member states .
we are therefore thinking in terms of the treaty and we want the agenda of the next intergovernmental conference to allow for a deeper reform of the union .
having said this , mr president , this parliament is holding this debate today because we did not want to delay the start of the conference .
however , we did not want to do this because we wish to send a clear political signal to the governments and the candidate countries that we want this reform to take place , precisely in order to facilitate enlargement .
the portuguese presidency shares many of this parliament ' s aspirations and has committed itself to doing everything it can to ensure that the agenda of the intergovernmental conference is widened to include other essential issues .
therefore , the number of issues decided by a qualified majority will increase .
it is already established within the community acquis that those legislative issues which are decided by a qualified majority are also subject to codecision with parliament .
however , this parliament would not be fulfilling its role as a supranational european institution if it did not consider the political design of the union .
mr president , for the socialist group i can say we will be supporting the draft opinion put forward by the rapporteurs on behalf of the constitutional affairs committee .
the amsterdam leftovers is not a very good term , because they are very important subjects in themselves .
these first three subjects are very important but they are subjects which were explored in detail by our member states during the last igc .
there are other issues that should fruitfully be looked at , especially before such a large widening of the union to so many new countries .
they have laid out for the public to see some of the crucial issues that we are going to have to address in this igc .
that is one of the political conclusions that we must draw from the grave decision of 14 member states yesterday virtually to freeze relations with a partner .
another is clearly for national parliaments and national political parties to find a reinforced role that they can play inside european union affairs and to share the shouldering of responsibility to build european parliamentary democracy .
mr president , the group of the greens / european free alliance believes that the european parliament ' s decision to rush headlong into giving its opinion on the intergovernmental conference undermines the political significance of the request for talks with the council , and in the end , makes it rather irrelevant .
we would have preferred to have had greater clarification of the agenda and more guarantees on the method before giving our opinion , and frankly , we did not appreciate the discourtesy the portuguese presidency showed towards the european parliament by scheduling the start of the intergovernmental conference for saint valentine ' s day , the first day of the strasbourg part-session .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , to my mind , it cannot be said often or loud enough that what the council has adopted in the way of an agenda for the intergovernmental conference is completely unacceptable politically and i would add that i consider it to be nothing short of disgraceful .
that is why we as a group are in favour of the intergovernmental conference .
what we are talking about is nothing more and nothing less than the future of europe , and , in particular , a europe that the citizens truly regard as being theirs , because they are instrumental in shaping it and because the cares and concerns , the problems and issues they face on a daily basis are also taken seriously by politicians .
we also take the view that the political decision-makers must at long last change the habit of a life-time and ask the citizens in referenda , once the intergovernmental conference is over , whether or not they go along with the way in which europe is to continue to develop in the future .
of course , we are also talking about effectiveness of decisions and functioning institutions in a union of 27 plus member states .
i would like to thank the commission for the proposals they have put forward and i am certain that comprehensive discussions with the citizens will ensue here in the european parliament , on all the issues you have raised .
it must be adhered to in the interests of the fast , effective work of the conference , prior to enlargement .
we deplore the fact that the commission , in its opinion of 26 january , limits itself to following the routine path of a standardised europe enlarging towards the east , a centralised superstate operating on the basis of majority decisions .
furthermore , the centralised european system , as we can see it developing today and as we can foresee it by extrapolation , erodes nations and , in eroding nations , erodes the national patriotism which forms the basis of our will to defend ourselves .
the europe which results from this is not stronger but weaker , as it no longer knows what it is or what it is defending .
a flexible europe , is a europe which respects its national democracies , which relies on the support of its nations , its national patriotisms , instead of continually persecuting them .
mr president , i am speaking on behalf of the italian radicals and i would like to say to the president of the council that he has seen what parliament ' s opinion is .
we shall give an opinion - which is technically and legally necessary - on convening the igc on 14 february , but we shall give an unfavourable opinion of its content .
we radicals have tabled amendments which we are submitting to the house in order to consolidate this text , and for example , to request - just for the sake of mentioning articles 6 and 7 - that the very minimum be done , i.e. , that the european parliament should also be involved in drawing up the european constitution and that a proposal be made for the european parliament to adopt the amendments to the treaty .
the finance ministers behave as if they were in an intergovernmental meeting , when in the ecofin council and in the euro 11 council , which is an unacceptable way to go on .
the debates we are having these days , on a certain european country ' s government , for example , show , do they not , that we must place the spiritual , moral , constitutional , community and common welfare-orientated leanings of the european union on a firm footing , and that legally binding fundamental rights must also be incorporated into the treaty for the same reason , as this will be a crucial stabilising factor .
if we succeed in making progress here , then we will also be ready for the historic task of enlarging the european union .
you spoke to us about the start of your tour around the various capital cities and told us about the difficulties that some governments have in reaching a consensus in their own countries , and therefore in their parliaments .
i would like you to bear in mind that yesterday we had a very worthwhile day of discussions and dialogue with the representatives of the 15 national parliaments , which were represented by competent and exacting delegations .
however , we shall intensify our collaboration and our dialogue with the national parliaments for the entire duration of the intergovernmental conference .
the finnish presidency only listened to minimalist governments and , unfortunately , turned a deaf ear to this parliament .
it is of the utmost importance that the european parliament and the commission join forces for this igc .
it also means that our parliament president and the two representatives should be able to take part on an equal political footing and , therefore , not only within the working party , but also at the same political level as the commission .
if we allow europe to be watered down as a result of enlargement , we will drown in our own political quagmire .
after having restricted , on its own initiative , its participation in the igc to two minor seats , parliament is now giving up the right to add to the agenda for this igc .
hypocrisy to be regretted bitterly , in our resolution , that the agenda for the igc is not equal to the issues , since in our haste , with blameworthy naivety , we are stopping ourselves forcing through this more ambitious agenda .
whether we want it or not , since parliament itself is going to extinguish the only spotlight capable of shedding a little light on the debates , the venue for decisions is now going to move to the 15 member states of the union .
in order to assert our fundamental values , they need to be laid down in writing , as a matter of urgency , and , beyond this igc , i believe we owe europe a constitution .
the forthcoming enlargement of the union is used as an argument for this .
article 56 of the treaty , prohibiting currency speculation or any interference in the free movement of capital , must be removed so that damaging currency speculation may be checked by means of political control .
it is , however , important to emphasise that the intergovernmental conference is and will remain a conference of the member states .
the union cannot be enlarged to 28 without addressing the matter of whether europe has certain joint principles and values , whether it comes down to an economic free trade area , or whether , on the other hand , it has a greater ambition : the desire to be a supranational union , in ways that have yet to be defined , that wants to blaze a trail for civilisation and democracy in the world .
the amendment of the treaties was , however , limited to a review of some internal rules , which was necessary and important , but did not answer the fundamental question : what is europe , what are its common principles and therefore , its objectives and limitations ?
the council has done well to lay open this subject to europe and to the world and if we do not set down these values in a charter of fundamental rights , in a european constitution , then we shall construct a europe without a solid , lasting base .
commissioner barnier , i know - at least i think i know - that you and the representatives of the portuguese presidency share these values : make the most of the chances you were given by the december conference to include these subjects and principles , because this is the only way we will build a lasting europe .
mr president , i am in the happy position of being able to refer to a couple of striking contributions from a small group of nordic sceptics and opponents of the drastic and growing integration process which , looked long and hard at , threatens the whole of democratic europe .
you can think what you like about mr haider , and i personally consider him to be a very dangerous politician , but you cannot just intervene in an independent and friendly country ' s democratic process .
on 14 february , we will see the launch of the igc which is to be completed by the end of 2000 .
i think it is generally agreed here this afternoon across all groups that the helsinki agenda will not be sufficient to cover the necessary reform to prepare europe for enlargement .
these include the extension of qualified voting - in my country we accept that but not to areas of taxation - the re-weighting of voting in council to favour larger states and the number of commissioners in an enlarged europe .
we are prepared to consider re-weighting the votes in the council of ministers , provided that the larger member states are willing to agree to every member state having a full and equal member of the commission .
at the igc , we would also need a debate on the possible divisions of the treaties into two - into a policy area and an area on the constitution .
the treaty of amsterdam , mr president , has set the number of european parliament members at 700 and a debate is needed in this parliament on how that number will be distributed among the enlarged europe .
the issues to be dealt with at this intergovernmental conference are exceptionally sensitive .
the most important issue with regard to this is internal differentiation within the union .
may i particularly draw attention to one of the implications of enlargement in respect of this parliament .
a ceiling of 700 has been prescribed as the maximum that parliament can safely become and remain a deliberative assembly .
there is nothing new here , apart from one aspect : the fact that with this opinion - assuming it is approved tomorrow - the european parliament is adopting a positive strategy to assist in widening the igc agenda .
this also demonstrates its willingness to contribute , by means of its two representatives and its president , to reaching a more satisfactory final solution to this revision of the treaty .
i also feel , however , that the commission did an excellent job , whether or not you agree with the solutions put forward in the document adopted on 26 january .
that is the debate , and this question must be addressed in any discussion of the intergovernmental conference , its agenda or its method .
the council must realise that , if we want the future of the european union to involve a form of enlargement built on firm foundations , the next intergovernmental conference must go much further .
the council is consulting us and parliament is giving its opinion .
we want an intergovernmental conference , but not this one .
being much more democratic means greater participation by the european parliament and allowing the commission to exercise even more - yes , more - its ability to take the initiative .
i would just like to make a few comments , after reading the draft opinion and after listening to the speakers on behalf of the various groups .
indeed , it is in this spirit and in the framework of this mandate , which the commission framed for its own opinion , but using all the terms thereof , plus everything between the lines .
i think that all of us , the personal representatives of the ministers of foreign affairs , your two representatives , and myself , as a representative of the commission , will be going into matters in detail , but it will be afterwards , at a different level , one in which we will also be participating , that the last trade-offs must be made .
in the coming months , ladies and gentlemen of the house , the commission will therefore be working in close cooperation , on good terms , with your two representatives , professor tsatsos and mr elmar brok , in order to reconcile our points of view , if need be .
finally , i should like to make three additional comments , quite briefly , mr president .
firstly , to congratulate and thank mr napolitano , the chairman , and the committee on constitutional affairs for the extremely original major initiative which it took yesterday in bringing together the competent representatives of national parliaments , the committee on constitutional affairs and the commission for an initial joint debate .
such dialogue between the national parliaments , the european parliament and ourselves is extremely important .
tomorrow , i shall be in london .
we are well aware that they cannot be completed within these six months and that it will have to hand over to the french presidency , in the hope that a conclusion can be reached before the end of the year 2000 .
the handover will have been made , but the conditions in which the handover is going to be made , by yourself , mr president , and by the portuguese presidency , are going to be extremely important , as is the nature of this handover .
it is all the work which is going to be carried out together , under your guidance particularly , in the course of these few months , which is extremely important .
finally , let me repeat , we shall have a very great effort to make in order to popularise the topics of these negotiations .
it has thereby succeeded in closing two serious loopholes in the internal market which are of great significance to the european economy and to 5 million third-country nationals in the european union who are here as workers or on a self-employed basis .
however , the european court of justice did not make specific reference to the issue of visa requirements and conditions of residence and consequently the member states were unable to clarify this issue .
the situation as far as self-employed people are concerned is that current community invested legal rights do not afford third-country nationals the right to provide cross-border services .
i , together with the european parliament ' s committee on legal affairs and the internal market , are therefore of the opinion that the commission has chosen the right legal bases and that the opposite view , as expressed in the report produced by the council ' s legal service , is inappropriate .
i am absolutely convinced that it will be easier for us to achieve consensus in the council on this basis .
however , in order to compensate for this , all possible obstacles must be removed before the service provision card is issued , and as the commission ' s proposal would have it , more stringent conditions must be satisfied before a service provision card is issued .
i would hope that the same holds true for the proposal to reduce the minimum period of duration for a first posting to three months , and to be flexible in adapting the period of validity of the service provision card to the duration of the first posting .
unfortunately i have to say that i am unable to support this proposed amendment because it in fact changes the substance of the outcome that we in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market resolved on unanimously , and i would like to stand by this outcome , which we arrived at together after lengthy discussions .
neither does the commission accept the proposal that legal status in a member state should be valid three months after the card has expired .
that is why the commission supports mrs palacio ' s amendment no 22 in both respects .
i hope that , at the end of the debate , when all the speakers have contributed , i will once again be given the opportunity to elaborate upon the different amendments .
mr president , tomorrow will see a large majority within the ppe group vote in favour of the amendments put forward by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , as well as the amended version .
if we are going to abide by the one extreme , that is the interests of the member states , then we certainly have every reason to make the hurdles that have to be cleared in applying for this card relatively high .
therefore we want applications for the service provision card to be for one or more member states .
consequently , i too have to say that i am in favour of the amendments put forward by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
if a particular member state was to declare that it had suddenly run into problems because the individual concerned had committed a theft and the card was for their country , then this particular member state would be able to revoke this card , as it were , for the reasons cited in this directive , which is altogether a flexible and intelligent solution .
i would urge the council and the commission to move in this direction .
one of the reasons why we are late is because we spent time earlier today rightly stating the rooted opposition of this parliament to any form of xenophobia or racism .
mrs berger , in your amendment no 2 to recital 6 , you mention legal security .
the first point on which we disagree is the duration of three months for the residency permit , since all that does is create legal insecurity .
legal security requires this .
on the other hand , with regard to point d of amendment no 10 , which refers to the first directive , you suggest that , for reasons of public security or public order regulations , a member state may reject the validity of the card .
there are already some ex ante controls laid down in article 4 of the directive .
it makes no sense for any worker within the schengen area , since he or she will already have undergone a screening process in order to enter the first member state , and the second member state would be justified in rejecting ex ante the entry of that worker into its territory .
however , in the case of the united kingdom , we believe they go further than that in a manner which is unacceptable .
if there is to be a change to the present united kingdom border arrangements , that change should be made by the united kingdom government and the united kingdom parliament and not en passant by the european legislative process .
having also studied the amendments submitted , i concluded that we can go along with these concerns to a large extent and that this will be reflected in our voting behaviour tomorrow .
amendments nos 7 and 8 are acceptable too , provided the situation of posting is established in the member state in which the service provider is established .
we also welcome amendment no 13 insofar as , as a result of this , the card ' s area of applicability is extended from one member state to all member states .
in terms of comitology , amendments nos 14 and 21 also apply in part , insofar as the rights of parliament are concerned .
the other amendments are unacceptable .
as amendment no 18 refers to directive 96 / 71 concerning the minimum wage which is already in force , no change is necessary .
as far as amendment no 15 on the definition of the term " self-employed " is concerned , the commission will , as i have already remarked , provide an adequate solution to accommodate the objections lodged .
the commission would like to propose finding a solution to this problem which would then apply to all companies based in the european union which employ staff from non-eu countries .
the question is , furthermore , one of whether the two cases should be treated in the same way .
in my opinion , this is an issue which belongs to the debate on the enlargement of the european union and perhaps not to the present debate .
thank you very much , commissioner bolkestein .
the debate is closed .
proposal for a council decision amending decision 88 / 591 / ecsc , eec , euratom , establishing a court of first instance of the european communities ( 5713 / 1999 - c5-0020 / 1999 - 1999 / 0803 ( cns ) ) , and ii .
proposal for a council decision amending decision 88 / 591 / ecsc , eec , euratom , establishing a court of first instance of the european communities ( 9614 / 1999 - c5-0167 / 1999 - 1999 / 0805 ( cns ) ) .
mr president , there is no guarantee that the forthcoming revision of the treaties at the igc will clear the way for a revision of the community ' s judicial systems .
therefore , the proposed increase to 21 judges is fully justified because , ultimately , it is a matter of increasing the court ' s efficiency and it will enable two additional chambers to be established , in each of which three judges will sit .
the second reform proposed concerns an increase in the jurisdiction of the court of first instance , which , at present , only covers actions for annulment by private individuals but which will then also cover actions brought by member states .
however , this report is based on long and effective work which has already produced certain results , such as the incorporation into the finnish presidency ' s document of 7 december 1999 of the commitment to widen the agenda of the intergovernmental conference to include a study of the future modification of the organisation , composition and competences of the community courts .
mr president , the reform of the community judicial system has become an essential requirement if , in the future , we intend justice to be done within reasonable time scales , and if , in the future , the european union wishes to have a judicial system which is equal to the political project which we have embarked upon .
today - and i must say this with pride and satisfaction - this parliament has had a good opportunity to demonstrate the extent to which we europeans believe that the european political project is much more than just an internal market , and that it is based much more on principles than on economic interests .
i would like to make two observations during this intervention , which stem from the report itself , given this parliament ' s obligation , in accordance with the treaty , to produce a very succinct report , which does not go into depth .
the second is that the translation services of the court of first instance and the court of justice should be separated .
the first concerns this parliament .
above all , we wish to see an extension of the competences of the court of justice , hand in hand with its capacity to fulfil its obligations , in other words , its resources .
mr president , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and welcome the contents of this report .
the first relates to a large suspension bridge and whether or not tolls on it should be subject to vat .
the decision could have huge implications for our local economy .
these are just two examples of real life problems behind delays in europe ' s system of justice .
the proposals in this report are very welcome as an interim palliative , but europe is a legal construction , its courts are central to its proper functioning .
mr president , i too would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report .
mr president , i would like to begin by joining those who congratulated the rapporteur on this work .
it has been said more than once : justice delayed is justice denied .
as your parliament is aware , the commission is convinced that , without fundamental reform , the community judicial bodies run the risk - in the short term - of no longer being able to carry out their task within reasonable deadlines .
the commission is aware of the request made by the court of first instance to increase its number of judges , but at the moment , the former is of the opinion that the proposed transfer of competence should be seen in the light of the study which i have just mentioned .
the debate is closed .
exceptional financial aid to kosovo the next item is the report ( a5-0022 / 2000 ) by mr brok , on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , on the proposal for a council decision providing exceptional community financial assistance to kosovo ( com ( 99 ) 0598 - c5-0045 / 00 - 1999 / 0240 ( cns ) ) .
we have been asked for eur 35 million .
we would like the commission to make commitments on the amendments we are proposing in regard to this .
this is not in order to limit or be stingy with our financial contribution to kosovo but , quite the contrary , to ensure that our contribution is being matched by the contributions of other donors .
from that point of view , the proposed facility is a two-phase aid facility and the second tranche must be released as soon as the donors have made clear their interest .
this is serious , since it holds up the whole process of reconstruction in kosovo .
kosovo has suffered far too much from delays in payment .
administration-wise there are now 34 tax inspectors .
it should also be noted that of the 19 departments , 4 already have administrative leadership , which represents an improvement on the situation there hitherto .
the eu commission cannot pay for everything .
mr president , i would like to offer a few explanations .
the union has decided to assist with a further eur 35 million in additional macrofinancial aid for the reconstruction of kosovo , on the basis of an imf report which estimates that a further eur 115 million is needed for that reconstruction .
this calls into question the agreement which parliament reached , with great difficulty , with the council in december , according to which , when the commission presents a multiannual programme for reconstruction , the financial perspectives would be reviewed where necessary .
i would like to ask the commission - and i am glad that commissioner solbes is here with us this evening - to present us in time with this multiannual finance programme , with the corresponding report , requested by parliament , so that it may be taken into account when the preliminary draft of the next budget is drawn up , as we have been promised .
lastly , i would like to insist that , although we have agreed to eur 35 million now , we know that this is a stopgap solution and that it is not enough , and we should therefore reach an agreement as soon as possible on the multiannual reconstruction programme for kosovo , which is so badly needed .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , please excuse my late arrival , but this other political issue is still on the agenda today , more is the pity .
mr president , when the alliance intervened in kosovo its objective was to re-establish conditions in this province which would enable those who wished to do so to stay there or return , with respect for their own heritage and their own culture .
it is true that economic aid is , in this respect , certainly an essential element to the scope of action afforded those people active at the grass roots level .
in short , we should put our faith in those parties who , in these areas , are better equipped than us to make certain decisions .
some of the amendments in your report pose this question .
for example , amendments nos 1 , 2 and 4 .
the fundamental problem is that , at the moment , the distribution of the burden amongst the different donors has been established in the statements of the high level steering group , but it is also true that they have no legal status .
amendment no 4 is of a similar nature .
on the one hand , we have been asked to provide parliament with information regarding the progress of invitations to tender and , in this respect , i can tell you that the commission was last week able to provide parliament ' s committee on budgets with the latest statement of contracts and payments carried out since the task force was sent into action in kosovo .
thank you very much , ladies and gentlemen , and i hope that , with the final decision of the council , we can release these funds and make a positive contribution to maintaining the considerable effort being made in kosovo by different parties , so that we might achieve that situation of greater coexistence and peace which we all wish to see .
mr president , i am pleased to see the convergence of viewpoints there is between parliament , particularly the committee on budgets , and the commission , and we can assure you that , for our part , we shall always be there to assist the commission in the performance of its duties .
the problem is how in practical terms to implement the compromise which we accepted .
the debate is closed .
the share that renewable energy sources have in total energy production must be increased , but it has to be done in a rational manner .
it is quite amazing as to how doggedly the member states in the council tried to fight this programme for alternative energies and an appropriate level of funding .
the original financial package of eur 81.1 million , as proposed by the commission , was reduced by the council to eur 74 million , unilaterally and without explanation .
it was possible , in the course of the conciliation procedure , to reach agreement with the council on those of our essential demands , one being to examine the possibility of opening the altener programme to the associated mediterranean countries when this programme next undergoes revision .
we were assured that the council will publish a statement on this in the official journal .
we accepted that the funding should be raised to eur 77 million .
on 9 december last year , the conciliation committee adopted the definitive text for the programme , thereby paving the way for the future promotion of studies and projects within the alternative energies sector aimed at tapping into the potential of renewable energies .
in the first place , this new five-year programme will entail extending the actions in the altener i programme .
to my mind though , what is particularly important about the altener ii programme are the new actions for relieving market saturation by renewable energies and those for implementing , supporting and monitoring the community strategy and the community action plan .
the conclusion reached regarding conciliation with regard to the altener programme as put forward by the conciliation committee is , after all the difficult phases it has been through , at least satisfactory .
most of parliament ' s amendments have been taken into account and the fact that the programme has seen its total funding rise to eur 77 million must be seen as positive .
however , in the future , the union will also have to increase its own input in promoting the use of renewable energy and ensuring that renewable energy is launched without obstacles on the market .
in contrast with that , i see the amounts allocated for renewable energies , which are not only an ecological element but which look set to undergo considerable economic expansion .
in order to ensure that at least 50 % of the energy mix comes from renewable energy sources , it is not enough to deal with a few hot spots that will be more profitable in the short term .
the activities of the altener programme will promote renewable energy sources and i believe that such programmes merit financial support at the developmental stage as they offer enormous commercial potential in the future .
as the final text rightly states , actions such as these can play a role in reducing regional disparities .
i can vouch that i have already received significant interest in the altener programme from my own constituency of leinster , a significant portion of which falls within ireland ' s only objective i region .
i support all efforts to close the gap in economic development in infrastructural provisions , including the energy sector .
in short , we face a major challenge in meeting our commitments on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector under the kyoto protocol , while at the same time promoting growth in our economies .
altener will make a valuable contribution to the combined efforts of the member states .
mr president , mr langen , ladies and gentlemen , as our rapporteur mentioned , we are coming to the end of a long and difficult process of conciliation with the council on the altener programme .
mr langen mentioned that the implementation budget proposed by the council was initially ff 74 million , whereas the commission proposed 81.1 million , a figure which the european parliament supported .
an initial conciliation meeting was not successful , because the council would not at that time accept an increase of eur 1.9 million .
a second round of conciliation achieved an increase of eur 1.1 million in order to reach this compromise figure of 77 million .
in spite of an increase of 3 million in relation to the initial proposal , personally , once again i deplore the fact that the funds allocated do not match up to the ambitions expressed and that the concern to save money displayed by the council in this situation is in rude contrast to its declarations in favour of the safety of the energy supply , job creation and environmental protection , challenges that are just as significant which we must face up to .
all of this will provide greater coordination , transparency and efficiency in our energy programmes , into which we will also have to incorporate the save programme , which we will be discussing soon .
the financial amount finally allocated to the programme is also a considerable improvement on the council ' s proposal at second reading which we found completely unacceptable and we have made quite a lot of progress there .
i therefore propose that this house agree to adopt the proposals on save and the conclusion at the conciliation at third reading .
i would like to remind the house that at second reading parliament adopted this report containing eight amendments , including a re-instatement of the commission ' s original budget .
the commission accepted five of the proposed amendments including the budgetary allocation and i thank the commission for their continued support on the budget during the conciliation procedure as what the council had proposed was unacceptable .
the issue of the financial envelope was staunchly defended by parliament in the face of the council ' s very meagre opening offer .
i would like to say however that it is , and has always been , a very modest budget and therefore the funding for this programme is more symbolic than real .
where the community can step in is to put the local activators in touch with each other so that they can actually not re-invent the wheel in every region .
we have an important part to play in the community in the european union in this regard .
save is the only community-wide programme dedicated to promoting the rational use of energy .
it is something that we can all support .
furthermore , behind these programmes , that is to say , the save programme , which concerns greater efficiency and energy savings , and the altener programme , which concerns renewable energy , there lies an extremely important technological challenge , which , from an economic point of view , may offer significant opportunities to industry and also for the creation of jobs in our countries and therefore in the union as a whole .
from the point of view of the commission , in this interinstitutional game , i believe that this is important and i am very happy to highlight it .
the debate is closed .
however , in the spirit of europe ' s founding fathers , we must inevitably bear in mind the model for civilisation which led them to seek to establish lasting conditions for peace .
a europe of national identities can live for a long time in peace and prosperity if this cultural diversity maintains its vitality and eliminates the small-mindedness and aggressiveness caused by resentments which , as a rule , give rise to excessively nationalistic feelings .
if , however , cultural policies cannot give a superior and clearly distinctive meaning to all of this , neither europe nor european democracy will be able to make much progress .
the people of europe whom we represent here have the right to demand a more consistent , effective and above all a more european attitude from the union ' s institutions .
these thoughts are by way of an introduction to this house ' s consideration of the joint text of the culture 2000 programme , which was approved by the conciliation committee on 9 december last year .
let us remember that culture 2000 establishes a unique financing and programming instrument for cultural cooperation .
with regard to the budgetary aspects of this , parliament ' s delegation came up against the council ' s intransigence on the issue of increasing the appropriations from the eur 167 million that were originally earmarked .
i believe that the fact that culture and , fittingly , education and youth now fall within the same commissioner ' s remit , will also serve to guarantee more synergy between these three programmes , which are certainly worthwhile programmes for the citizens of the european union .
if one puts all the money together and creates synergy then one can be a tiny bit satisfied , but then only a tiny bit .
madam president , i agree with the fine words with which the rapporteur began his intervention and i must add that , during the conciliation procedure , i was personally a little disappointed with the council .
it has once again been demonstrated that conciliation is incompatible with the demand for unanimity in the council .
this demand makes conciliation almost impossible and even affects the dignity of the parliamentary institution .
however , madam president , these considerations must not hide the fact that the joint text which we will vote on tomorrow , and which the socialists will vote in favour of , will put in place one of the european union ' s most important programmes .
the impetus given to the european idea by this programme is having an enormous impact , especially on small linguistic areas such as the netherlands which not only has national potential , but is also relying on support from the programme , mainly from a language point of view .
codecision and unanimity do not go hand in hand .
i have always given the rapporteur my backing in this respect .
i too must say that i will be voting for this joint text for a council and european parliament decision with a very heavy heart .
the overall growth of the european union and the awareness of being european citizens : this is why we believe that the culture 2000 programme , albeit with a scarcity of funds , can make a considerable contribution to this great common goal .
the culture 2000 programme was finalised at the end of last year as a result of conciliation between parliament and the council .
the outcome can be considered reasonable , when we take into account the fact that the adoption of the programme called for a unanimous decision to be made in the council .
in this connection , i am very glad to say that soon after the socrates and culture 2000 programmes get under way officially at the meeting of the council of ministers in march in lisbon , the country holding the presidency of the eu is to organise a conference to discuss the situation of public libraries .
i hope that this conference will also encourage the commission to take the issue of libraries into active consideration in the fifth framework programme in respect of the information society .
we have had a great deal to say today about europe as a community of values , about tolerance , human dignity , human rights , a positive approach to the enlargement process , transparency and respect for each other .
youth , education and cultural policies are important tools for creating these values , for giving the citizens confidence in the european union and making it credible in their eyes .
the funding approved by the council for the cultural programme does not do justice to the importance of cultural and educational policy and of this programme to the european union ' s goals .
we want a colourful europe .
we want a europe based on the principle of diversity within unity .
madam president , as we have heard , all the groups have a common political enemy in the council .
the battle for a workable compromise lasted almost two years , and now , at long last , the european parliament can give the go-ahead .
this showed up the weaknesses of the european union ' s cultural policy activities once again .
out of 410 applications in 1999 only 55 projects with a low overall volume of eur 6.07 million could be considered .
the cultural programmes launched in years past - kaleidoscope , ariane and raphael - are being replaced by a single programme , culture 2000 , where - and i must stress this here very forcefully - the rapporteur censures a position which should give the european parliament cause for reflection - as someone said this afternoon - but which still underlines the huge importance of being part of a vast community where cultural interpretation is a democratic factor .
we agree with this approach and despite the lack of funds , this evening ' s result will serve to greatly boost this strategy and this opportunity for europe , which will then give rise to an economic factor and a growth factor ; culture then , and an institutional aspect , the basis for structuring a vast community , a prerequisite for economic growth , and not the complete opposite , as europe , in its cultural habits , has perhaps been used to viewing things in the past .
europe is its people , its history and now its collectivity ; but the reason why culture 2000 is so important to us is for this : i will wager that when we ask the question - ' what is europe ? ' - we answer it by saying , ' it is our art , it is our literature and it is our heritage . ' that is what culture 2000 represents .
following the conciliation stage , our institutions can now formally adopt the new ' culture 2000 ' framework programme .
we shall thus , in the course of the next five years , have a tool perfectly suited to developing clear , well-structured and , i am sure , successful measures in order to promote the cultural sector .
it is with great satisfaction that i today welcome this ' happy ending ' in this house , and i thank you for it .
we now have a framework programme , the first of its type for the cultural sector , and this programme makes it possible for us to plan our action from a new perspective and to work to promote culture in a more comprehensive , but also more thorough and detailed manner .
it stated that on the occasion of the report it must draw up in accordance with article 7 of the european parliament and council decision , it would carry out an assessment of the results of the programme , and this assessment will also cover the financial resources in the context of the community financial perspectives .
if need be , the report shall contain a proposal to amend the decision , and this should be achieved by 30 june 2002 .
all this must lead us to intensify our action in favour of developing a common cultural area , within which our cultures can flourish further in all their unique features , in all their diversity , but may also be mutually enriched and the other citizens of europe may participate fully in them .
i should like this programme to become a practical reality and for culture to be not only a factor of enrichment for our citizens , both in personal as well as in social and economic terms , but a right which it is our job to assert , and also the hallmark of rediscovered interaction within the union .
this is what our european ' culture 2000 ' programme offers .
secondly , encouraging exchanges , mobility and training in the cultural sector .
the new programme will , i am sure , in terms of its structure and organisation based on transparency , efficiency and balance , prove to be an instrument as successful as it is essential to our measures .
madam president , i reiterate my thanks to parliament for its support and for , once again , having shown the importance it attaches to culture in the context of the union .
i am certain that it will not be disappointed , having given us its support , and i personally undertake to keep parliament informed , as things progress , of the various phases of the implementation of our measures and the measures of our citizens , which i hope will be great measures for the future of the union .
the debate is closed .
this will involve , for example , disposing of more than 32 million lots of used oil , removing break fluid , etc .
vehicles already abandoned have also been abandoned by community legislation , in that they are not taken into consideration either in the texts on emissions or in this text on end-of-life vehicles .
the only merit of this directive is that it looks to the future .
such distortions in competition are not about environmental protection ; they simply affect investment potential and the jobs of those building cars in europe .
however , i would ask these colleagues to show solidarity with the more than 2 million people who make a living from building cars in europe , so that these jobs can be secured in the future .
firstly , because it clearly stipulates the environmental objectives .
thirdly , because it sets out a clear procedure to combat pollution caused by heavy metals .
secondly , we need to retain the details as they are included in the common position .
in my opinion , we should not jeopardise that common position , because it is a directive which we desperately need for environmental reasons .
our group will , at any rate , do this as far as possible - for environmental reasons and because we have this directive which is well-balanced and encompasses a whole range of issues and difficulties including , for example , the way in which the costs are to be distributed .
some of the socialists under the direction of mr bernd lange say : yes , we approve of this principle but we need not implement it until 2010 or 2012 according to amendment no 45 .
the common position stipulates 2006 .
i would therefore urge my colleagues not to support amendment no 38 of the christian democrats and amendment no 45 of some of the socialists .
mr president , the waste from end-of-life vehicles is one of our really major environmental problems in terms both of the quantity of waste and of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances .
it is easy to see that the car industry in certain countries , for example in germany , went in for some pretty tough lobbying before the present directive was adopted .
reference was made earlier on in the debate to the fact that some thought should be given to the millions of people who work in the car industry in various countries and to those countries which have large car industries , for example my own country , sweden .
mr president , i am very pleased that environmental protection is now a priority for this parliament , as indeed it is for the citizens of europe .
there is no doubt that abandoned cars represent a serious threat to the visual and physical environment .
car manufacturers , the suppliers of materials and equipment manufacturers must make an effort to limit the use of hazardous substances and therefore must ensure at the design stage that recycled materials can be used in the manufacture of cars .
we know that in the netherlands there are authorised treatment centres in place to collect end-of-life vehicles and this process should be extended across the length and breadth of the european union .
in accordance with new provisions included in the amsterdam treaty all the 370 million consumers within the european union have a right to consumer-related information .
in this regard , we are certainly on the right track , but as some members have already stressed , the real issue here is the possibility that manufacturers ' responsibility will become a shared responsibility .
in italy , we have begun to withdraw and recycle around 80 % of old cars , but there is a market problem which could trigger a crisis - in terms of unemployment given that in italy industry often resorts to lay-offs and redundancies - and cause problems for workers in different parts of italy .
mr president , this directive deals with the comparatively small but growing problem of abandoned cars and the question of a more structured disposal of all cars at the end of their life .
that would mean billions of pounds or euros for each of the major companies in each of the countries of the european union .
the council ' s common position was to say that car manufacturers should bear all , or a significant part , of the costs of recovery and recycling .
the common position puts european car manufacturers in a disadvantageous position in relation to manufacturers which have just come to the european market .
mr president , commissioner , the proposed directive on end-of-life vehicles before us today aims firstly to guarantee a high level of environmental protection in the union , but also to safeguard the proper operation of the internal market in this sector .
the date on which the directive will come into force .
the common position was more feasible since it envisaged 2006 for vehicles already on the road .
it would be shameful to say the least if the european parliament were to draw back from the professions the governments of the 14 member states and the european commission have been making concerning manufacturer responsibility and environmental protection !
another point is that waste should not be incinerated or crushed , not only in the case of lead , cadmium and mercury , but also in the case of waste which contains pvc .
the other question is who should bear the cost .
we are more in agreement with the amendment proposed at first reading .
i come , of course , from a country that is proud of its car industry and of its commercial success both in europe and in third countries .
the men and women on the move throughout europe pay for their car and their catalytic converter , pay their national taxes and the tax on fuel and are therefore already paying a high price for their magnificent machine and their freedom of movement .
i do not wish to alter the text of the common position in any way .
the manufacturer is and should be liable and the last holder and / or owner must be able to hand back the car without any cost .
mr president , the present directive is important in so far as it helps prevent our being faced with hazardous waste from end-of-life vehicles and in so far as it promotes the re-use and recycling of materials from scrapped cars .
if you want the full benefits of this directive use your vote to throw out these amendments .
yesterday we honoured our institution with a political debate .
today , if 314 members of parliament yield to the strength of the lobbying of some car manufacturers , we should be doing ourselves dishonour .
most of the technical issues have been resolved .
there are some details to be finalised but most of the technical issues have been resolved .
i cannot accept that .
the common position is a reasonable compromise .
i cannot accept that and on behalf of the taxpayers and the consumers of europe i am voting against those amendments .
for there are considerably more than two million people employed in this sector .
mr president , we are indeed now in a very rare situation : those who wish to uphold environmental values will take the side of the council in their common position .
mr president , there are two issues of principle in the council ' s draft directive .
mr president , the common position is sound , but it is up to parliament to improve the common position on end-of-life vehicles .
the common position stipulates that manufacturers should not only bear the cost , they should also take back end-of-life vehicles .
the european consumer organisation , which has asked us to support the common position on this point , is to my mind letting the consumer down .
mr president , commissioner , i have asked to speak again so that i can say a few more words at the close of this debate .
you will also find that these cars are suitably disposed of , that new material flows have been opened up in order to recycle materials , that 85 % of the weight of a car is recycled and that 92 % of all cars in the netherlands are recycled .
i will only give the example of my own country to illustrate how this system functions there without any problems .
some businesses have become hi-tech businesses , because they managed to recycle certain materials , even materials which are not yet included in the directive .
what we are discussing here is the fact that close on ten million cars are scrapped every year in the european union , resulting in approximately as many millions of tons of waste .
the first question , then , is about who should pay .
we have what we require in order to deal with end-of-life cars .
after the first reading in the european parliament in 1999 , the commission ' s proposal ended up in an awkward political situation in the council .
a total of 48 amendments have been tabled .
this applies to amendment no 5 , excluding section 1 ; 8 and 9 , section 1 ; 10 and 12 , section 3 ; 15 , 16 , 20 , 22 , 24 and 25 .
amendments nos 6 and 21 are new ; the commission can approve these .
amendments nos 4 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 28 , 30 , 32 , 37 , 42 and 48 concern the phasing-out of heavy metals .
amendments nos 13 , 28 , 32 , 37 , 42 and 48 involve introducing unnecessary conditions and exceptions .
amendments nos 4 , 11 and 30 mean that heavy metals have to be separated from the waste before recycling .
amendments nos 17 , 18 , 27 , 34 , 36 , 38 , 44 and 45 relate to the manufacturer ' s liability .
amendment no 23 involves the commission ' s having to adopt quality standards for reusable components .
finally , the commission cannot approve amendments nos 1 and 33 for reasons to do with legal clarity ; nor amendment no 19 , which the commission considers to be unnecessary at this stage .
the debate is closed .
there is an error which has still not been corrected and that is on amendment no 4 .
the draft council decision amending decision 88 / 591 / ecsc , eec , euratom establishing a court of first instance of the european communities ( 5713 / 1999 - c5-0020 / 1999 - 1999 / 0803 ( cns ) ) and ii .
thank you , mr van velzen .
madam president , the socialist group proposes the following oral amendment .
expenditure on research and technology actually forms a sizeable part of the budget of the european union , after agriculture and the structural funds .
the various framework programmes have enabled not only high quality scientific work to take place but also innovative cooperation between researchers in various member states .
the fact is there are too few women involved in research work in the european union .
having said this , some of our fellow members clearly have qualms because the report by the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities which we have voted on contains one point which may lead to confusion and is interpreted by some as a quota stipulating that there must be 40 % female participating in research in europe .
they are involved in low-profile work of valuable cultural importance . - ( sv ) the parliamentary process concerning this question has been confusing , to say the least .
the directive concerning end-of-life vehicles will stand as an example for future legislation .
so let us vote for these amendments in order to preserve these gems of the automobile industry .
the precise wording of texts provides a guarantee and legal certainty for those people who will have to apply or live by these texts on a daily basis .
the directive remains in place .
thus , a more appropriate way to encourage recycling is to tax manufacturers who do not increase the amounts of recoverable material in their vehicles , to encourage private sector recycling companies , through a package of tax incentives and assistance on complying with environmental requirements , and to incentivise the use of recycled materials .
berger report ( a5-0007 / 2000 ) this proposal for a directive attempts to establish conditions for the posting of workers who are third-country nationals , for the provision of cross-border services .
basically , these proposals introduce the eu service provision card which will in future enable almost 5 million third country nationals legally resident in a european union member state to provide services in other member states , a phenomenon currently obstructed by problems such as the need to obtain visas and work permits .
the first proposal for a directive will authorise businesses established in a member state which employ workers who are third country nationals to assign such employees to another member state on a temporary basis to provide services there .
that is why i am voting in favour of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur .
marinho report ( a5-0003 / 2000 ) : we have serious reservations about the council ' s proposed amendments .
some people will say that perfection is not a realistic aim , but a brief look at the background should make our reservations more understandable to them : on 1 january 1995 , the council went back on the decision to increase the number of judges laid down in article 17 of the accession treaty of 24 june 1994 .
dimitrakopoulos and leinen report ( a5-0018 / 2000 ) - ( sv ) the most important task of the approaching intergovernmental conference is to reform the eu before the accession of the new member states .
incidentally , the french will probably be interested to learn that the commission is asking for article 67 of the amsterdam treaty to be amended in order to establish majority voting and codecision with the european parliament .
the french must be made aware not only that the purpose of all these operations is to eliminate their country as a responsible centre for decision making , but that furthermore every means will be used to extract their consent .
it is crucial for us that it should be possible for this intergovernmental conference to be concluded before the end of the year 2000 so that there are no remaining formalities , such as the weighting of votes in the council of ministers and the composition of the commission and the european parliament , which place obstacles in the way of the enlargement of the eu .
in other words , fifteen people are going to have discussions and decide , behind closed doors , on the fate of more than 350 million individuals .
unfortunately , in the issues covered by the resolutions on future subjects for revisions to the treaty on european union , nothing has so far been stated about the need to review article 7 , which deals with suspending a state in the event of a serious and persistent violation of the " founding " principles of the union , as laid down in article 6 .
the european parliament and its committee on constitutional affairs ought instead to have been more specific and concentrated on just a few points in addition to the council decision in helsinki , so stating what it considered to be the most pressing matters for discussion , including the question of establishing a public prosecutor to deal with crimes against the institutions of the european union and their financial interests .
i also refer to my explanation of vote of 18 november 1999 which clarifies my attitude towards supranationalism and common defence .
joint resolution on austria madam president , the union for a europe of nations group did not associate itself with the joint ppe / de-pse resolution on the political situation in austria following the formation in that country of a coalition government between the conservatives and jorg haider ' s freedom party .
in our opinion , it is clear that the left wing in the european parliament , in association with the austrian left wing which was defeated in the electoral arena , have mounted a petty political campaign resorting to the memory of a sinister but fortunately bygone period .
i also wonder about the wisdom of the eu and its reaction to the formation of the government in austria and how that is going to affect public opinion there .
there is the tragic monument of the holocaust , the death of 6 million jews , to those who argued the same case with respect to germany in the 1930s .
madam president , we have just passed a resolution which condemns the racist and xenophobic record of jorg haider ' s freedom party in austria , which has welcomed action by our governments to cut off political relations with any government of which he is part , and which sends our support to anti-racist groups within the democratic majority of the austrian people .
this european parliament requires the european commission to be vigilant of any racist action in austria , and threatens to suspend austria from membership of the european union if this happens .
our vote in no way constitutes an endorsement of the signatories to this compromise resolution , their present policy or their future attitude should the threat of the extreme right become more serious .
however , as it lacks the legal instruments to support this political will , since the sanctions stipulated under article 7 of the treaties are virtually impossible to apply , will it be able to keep its head high in the face of the threat of the systematic blocking of its entire institutional structure ?
it is our responsibility as a parliament , particularly as the democratically elected voice of the european union , to comment on current political developments in austria which are in conflict with the policies of this parliament .
that is why the european union must make its position clear regarding the current situation in austria . - ( sv ) we have voted in favour of the common resolution in order to express our solidarity with all those who are exposed to xenophobia and racism .
we are nonetheless very critical of the methods which the 14 member states have employed on this issue .
the resolution makes no clear reference to respect for the member states ' national identities and constitutional traditions in accordance with article 6 of the treaty .
a radical policy to promote security and justice in each country is the best guarantee of democratic development in europe . - ( de ) i am making this statement on behalf of the csu .
it is intolerable that the eu should involve itself in the formation of the government in a member state .
however , as politicians we must ask the question why 27 % of the austrian population voted for a party such as the fpo at the elections in october 1999 .
for these reasons the csu european delegates are against this resolution .
for the first time since the second world war , a party which is openly pro-nazi , racist and xenophobic has gained access to power in a european country .
it was only after they unsuccessfully solicited the fpo to tolerate a minority government and , obviously in vain , offered the freedom party ministerial posts , that the spo begin its massive campaign against haider .
the council has become prematurely involved without waiting for the results of the coalition negotiations or a programme of government .
any interference by the european institutions in this country is therefore unacceptable ; it is in violation of the european treaty ( article 7 of the treaty of amsterdam ) .
i believe there are circumstances when the question of principles and institutional regulations is obliterated .
personally i argued in favour of a rather harder line , and i supported amendments nos 1 , 4 , 6 , 7 and 8 , as well as the oral amendment tabled by the socialist group .
including jorg haider ' s party in a coalition government makes the presence of the extreme right an everyday fact of life in europe , and sets an extremely dangerous precedent which may generate a serious aftermath in other union member states or in candidate countries .
the austrian people ' s party must accept some historical responsibility for this .
i condemn jorg haider ' s racist and xenophobic policy .
i cannot therefore accept paragraph 4 in the joint resolution , and i cannot vote in favour of the resolution , even though it would be a vote against the extreme right . - ( sv ) obviously , the political leaders of europe have a right and a duty to react against mr haider and his party .
the political leaders of europe are entitled to express their view of political developments in another member state , just as a prime minister can express his opinion about racist politicians in a local authority .
the treaties do not authorise this reaction by the 14 member states .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 3 february 2000 .
madam president , since these matters are currently being considered by the quaestors , may i ask you to use your influence both to ensure that the register of interests is brought up to date and modified to cover instances of this kind and , above all , to ensure that the register is not only available for inspection by this house , but is also published on the internet ?
thank you , mr davies .
i would urge members to sign up to the commitment made today at the winning hearts conference that every child born in the new millennium has the right to live until the age of at least 65 without suffering from avoidable cardiovascular disease .
i would welcome an assurance from you that you will order an investigation to ensure that the two members who were named in this particular bbc interview are not running their companies from this parliament or from parliamentary offices , because that would be a very serious matter indeed .
thank you , mr murphy .
thank you , mr wurtz .
agenda the next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the conference of presidents , pursuant to rule 110 of the rules of procedure .
is there anyone who wishes to speak on behalf of these groups in favour of this proposal ?
i think that we , as a parliament , even now have to assume our responsibility and speak out on the situation in cambodia . ( parliament gave its assent ) president .
madam president , it is remarkable that the european parliament has not yet adopted a position on the possible release of mr pinochet , despite the fact that international arrest warrants have already been issued .
madam president , this matter is far too serious to be dealt with by means of an urgent procedure at this time .
the first is that this matter is sub judice in several european countries , and i would like to remind members that there is still no european judicial area nor a european legal system .
we believe that justice should be done in this case , but this is not the most appropriate procedure . ( parliament rejected the proposal ) president .
we consider the matter to be important enough for the commission to react swiftly to this situation , and i think that parliament must make its position clear and vote on a resolution on the subject . ( parliament gave its assent ) president .
madam president , with apologies to my friend , enrique baron crespo , i should like to speak against this proposal .
deciding upon future policy lines , with a view to a new directive , rather hastily , without having had time to consult the trade unions or have discussions with all the social partners , i feel , runs counter to the spirit we wish to inject into the debate on matters which directly involve the social operators .
madam president , this afternoon , in this chamber , reference was made to a series of reports on the bbc today programme this morning , which claimed that certain of my colleagues were running personal lobbying companies or somehow misusing their position as members of this house .
upon referral to committee , we examined over a hundred amendments and , so far , 17 amendments , some of which have already been presented in committee , have once again been tabled .
the interreg initiative , created in 1990 , is built upon the wish to make the regions of europe ready for a ' europe without frontiers ' in the context of establishing the great single market .
at the time of the reform of the structural funds in 1994 and 1996 , the interreg cip has incorporated new strands contributing to the development of trans-european transport and energy distribution networks .
these programmes promoted cross-border , transnational and interregional cooperation within the european union by encouraging balanced development of the community area .
the interreg iii programme , for which we have before us today the guidelines issued by the european commission , pursuant to the terms of european community regulation no 1260 de 1999 laying down general provisions on the structural funds , continues these measures .
the european commission draws up the list of eligible regions for strand a and strand b .
the commission draws up a list of priority areas and eligible measures which for strand a is not comprehensive , but is comprehensive for strand b .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the conference on rural development held in cork from 7 to 9 november 1996 set rural development as one of the european union ' s priorities since it is essential in order to maintain the existence and continued development of agriculture , to provide farmers with an environment containing the necessary infrastructure and services , and to ensure greater respect for the environment and a better quality of life , diversification and job creation .
an integrated development policy for all rural areas in the european union is therefore needed , consisting of the following elements : an integrated , multi-sectoral approach , simplification of administrative procedures , improvement of the partnership between european institutions and national and local actors and protection of the environment .
the leader community initiative was launched in 1991 to promote a new bottom-up approach to rural development and to diversify measures by adapting them to local needs .
leader i applied to the rural areas covered by structural fund objectives 1 and 5b , and 217 local action groups participated in it , with financing of eur 1 155 million .
for the 2000-2006 period provision has been made , unfortunately , only for a total contribution of eur 2 020 million , and an indicative allocation for each member state has been set .
it is an important community initiative which , together with the three other initiatives , urban , leader and interreg , is financed out of the structural funds .
this has meant a reduction in the number of amendments - from over 100 in committee to 22 for the plenary - which has also created numerous opportunities for compromises .
madam president , it is in itself an achievement that we are having this debate on the new urban community initiative and it is an achievement that i am here tonight because air france cancelled my flight at 2.10 p.m .
yet we as politicians knew that there was a groundswell of support for continuing this initiative into the year 2000 .
for example , in my own region , in manchester , the urban community initiative has been a tremendous success .
the millennium youth park project is helping to get young people re-engaged in regenerating their own community and in addition to support for small businesses and social policy we are beginning to see a turnaround of a very deprived urban community .
all these complex problems undermine the quality of life for our urban residents , yet we have the potential in these areas to create growth and prosperity .
it is better to have quality projects with the active participation of community groups than to have projects delivered on time but without local participation .
the commission must of course provide full disclosure and transparency concerning the selection criteria used for the new urban initiatives but it must also disclose the consultancy networks which are being used to deliver the exchange of good practice .
as we have heard , the objective of urban is the promotion of innovative strategies to promote economic and social regeneration in urban areas , bearing in mind that 80 % of the population of europe lives in cities .
however , we must remember that , in addition to urban , a number of other community instruments are also available in the social sector : innovative actions under article 6 of the esf regulation , pilot projects , particularly the new preparatory action for local commitment to employment that has just been introduced by the european parliament under the 2000 budget and the equal and interreg initiatives and mainstream esf activities .
not only is this coordination essential but , as we stated in our opinion , exchanges and the dissemination of expertise and good practice must also be essential .
mr president , our committee welcomed the priorities proposed by the commission for the urban programme of better integration of local communities and ethnic minorities and improved security and crime prevention .
we would particularly like to stress that there must be balanced representation between men and women in all of these bodies .
we would also like to stress that the main objective is the promotion of strategies for sustainable development , whose positive effects would extend to a broader geographical area than the local community itself , and we therefore feel it is appropriate for the projects to be integrated into the development programmes , included in objectives 1 and 2 , and into the regional planning of the regions and countries in which they are located .
the committee believes that projects financed under action 1 should place value on the potential of endogenous development , in particular based on local traditions , techniques and practices , on specific production and on the management of sustainable energy .
we believe it is necessary to coordinate the development objectives and management mechanisms of actions 2 and 3 , financed by leader , with those of other actions financed by other community programmes relating to interregional and international cooperation and partnership , such as interreg , sapar , phare , tacis and meda , in the same areas . . ( it ) madam president , i shall speak for two minutes on behalf of the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities , and for the other two minutes on behalf of the socialist group that i represent within the committee on employment and social affairs on the equal report .
we have put a lot of time into coming up with a definition of ' asylum-seeker ' because it is difficult from a legal point of view , but i think that we have now achieved a compromise with the rapporteur - at least i hope we have - and the silence on the report on asylum-seekers , which parliament is going to put to the vote must be seen as parliament supporting the commission ' s position .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism adopted this opinion on the equal report at its concluding discussion with no votes against and one abstention .
the committee based its conclusions on these critical comments .
dovetailing the activities under the community initiative with the european employment initiatives is an essential requirement and a crucial prerequisite for attaining the objectives of the equal programme .
we fully support the innovative approach towards setting up development partnerships and organising the exchange of experience at european level as an integral part of the equal programme .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it has already been mentioned today that the first urban initiative was an unqualified success .
to increase the effectiveness of individual measures the number of projects for urban ii has been limited to 50 .
in any case it is necessary to ensure that in small member states in particular it is not only areas of large cities which are again in receipt of the support .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to thank the rapporteurs , who have managed to produce excellent reports in just a short time .
the reports are late , and , in addition , they were very hastily discussed by the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
our group would once again like to raise the issue of the practical monitoring of funds and emphasise the importance of better coordination of the interreg , tacis , ispa and phare programmes .
we here in parliament are waiting for the commission to give the committee a more detailed explanation of the issue as soon as possible .
it is of decisive importance to get local business , organisations and other players involved in the practical implementation of programmes .
i would like to mention here again the urban report , in which the rapporteur , in the explanatory statements , has dealt admirably with the issue of the minimum sum of eur 500 per inhabitant as per the commission ' s guidelines .
mr president , a third of eu money is invested in funds for all kinds of development causes .
in some cases , i get the impression that it is not about solidarity or alleviating the most desperate problems , but about propaganda and upholding vested interests in exchange for the european union ' s blessing .
after the planned accession of new member states with their 100 million inhabitants , the prosperity level of which is at one third or two thirds of the average level of the current eu member states , this squandering will generate even more protest .
a second point where we need to focus our attention is the possibility of nepotism and abuse of power within regional and local councils .
so , really , these bodies should already provide for a balance , and take into account the wishes of the union movement and environmental movement in the process .
some areas within the european union are economically very strong and heavily exceed the average income per capita .
the core aspects of this debate this evening relate to the operation of the eu initiative programmes , namely , the new interreg iii initiative , equal and the leader + scheme .
this is why it is useful for the european union to continue to support the member states and , if necessary , give additional support under urban .
over the next seven years , the commission ' s proposals concerning urban will entail a reduction in both the community budget and the number of areas standing to benefit .
consequently , we cannot support amendment no 2 of the greens , as borne out in the committee meeting .
i would like to finish off by making a general comment on interreg .
hence our amendment in order to prevent contradictions between general policy and actual projects .
the preservation of this community initiative in particular , in the form of a new version - leader + - is therefore greatly to be welcomed .
it is important for there to be coordination between leader + and the other support initiatives in the european union , but coordination with other national support schemes is also just as important .
leader must now move into the implementation phase .
we must create joint , interregional and transnational management bodies , in which all local and regional authorities , as well as economic and social operators , play an active role .
during debates in committee , we have also pointed out the difficulties involved in coordinating interreg with other annual or biannual financial instruments , such as meda , tacis or phare .
this parliament ' s motion for a resolution has been very attentive to these difficulties , making proposals capable of solving them to the commission and setting reasonable deadlines for making the necessary changes .
even in member states and cities that are extremely wealthy we have large numbers of people living in ghettos , in situations where there are inadequate facilities , where schooling is very poor , where the physical infrastructure is under-developed and where drugs and other phenomena are rife .
it seems to me that in order for the european union to demonstrate that it has a role in helping the citizens of the european union it must give assistance to member states to demonstrate that the union works for these citizens and their families .
it is important that they use their initiative and their own local expertise in developing this initiative .
the development partnerships are a very clever idea , even though they are experimental .
i am glad to see that this was accepted into the report , but i cannot agree with amendment no 9 because that amendment really is not expressed in simple language at all .
although i am not in favour of those refugees who have been refused refugee status and threatened with repatriation , having access to equal , i would support the possibility of access for all other asylum-seekers and refugees .
this does not happen all that often and it is gratifying , especially as the leader programmes have been key elements in the union ' s rural development policy .
it must be pointed out that these programmes have not only been instrumental in structuring regional planning , but have also been vital instruments for economic and social cohesion in often vulnerable areas such as , for example , areas experiencing depopulation .
so , the concept for leader + should retain all the positive aspects of previous programmes .
a better solution would be , as indeed the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism suggests , strengthened coordination between leader + and the community cooperation and partnership programmes , such as interreg , phare , sapard or meda .
mr president , i have a few very brief comments .
for example , adapting equal to the objectives of employability and the flexibilisation of labour relations transforms this initiative into a new version of local employment contracts .
the interreg initiative must include eligible areas with special emphasis on border areas , islands and both mountain and non-mountain areas , such as the prefecture of arta in greece , whose omission from annex i of the commission ' s communication is ill-considered .
the voluntary participation of people in development programmes is something that is not always fully appreciated .
yet , through leader , there can be no doubting its effectiveness as an integral part of broader eu and national policy .
i should also like to give my considered support to the comments of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , particularly and primarily in deploring the failure to integrate the most remote regions into strand a of the programme or in commenting upon the lack of precision in the selection criteria for the implementation methods for strand iii c and , finally , in requesting that members of the european parliament should be involved in the european observatory for cross-border , transregional and interregional cooperation .
i should further like to express major reservations with regard to the exaggerated tendency which , in the commission communication with reference to interreg iii and iii b , involves associating environmental protection exclusively with the development of natura 2000 , which i think is often an excessively abstract means of safeguarding ecosystems , from which users are in danger of being excluded or severely restricted .
it would be even better if they were involved to a greater extent in the processes of framing and implementing the programmes concerned , otherwise it will be difficult to determine and defend their role in relation to the local and national authorities and even the citizens .
only , the number of people affected by these programmes has not really dropped .
this is why it is so hard to strike a balance , not only between the different countries or the different components , but especially between the different groups listed in the programme , and in fact this is what has preoccupied us to date .
although a few other groups have been mentioned , it is the member states , in particular , which are on the lookout .
as far as the commission is concerned , i hope it will be able to join in the compromise that is being concluded here in this parliament , mainly with a view to reaching a balance .
the position of parliament in this whole procedure is somewhat unclear .
so far , some balkan countries have received aid from the phare and obnova programmes , while others have not .
during the new programme period , in view of enlargement and bearing in mind that funding has been provided for from new financial instruments and regulations , such as ispa and sapard , it is considered absolutely essential to coordinate the funding of all three strands of interreg with other financial aid to third countries .
accordingly , we welcome the related references in chapter 7 of the european commission ' s proposed general guidelines for interreg .
the efforts to coordinate the planning and so make it more effective must extend to all the programmes equally , and i say that because in the meda programme during the last period some problems arose which have to be overcome , so that we can have equal treatment for all the third countries participating in that programme .
only if the population can stay in the countryside will the quality of life in the countryside also be permanently assured .
mr president , during the last eu financial perspective from 1994 to 1999 , when there were 13 different initiatives in operation , the interreg ii cross-border programme was an important initiative .
the interreg i programme between 1989 and 1993 and the interreg ii programme between 1994 and 1999 have proved an absolute success in terms of bridging closer social and economic development between bordering member states .
coming from the border counties in the north-west of ireland , i have seen over the years the important role which interreg i and ii have played and i am delighted to welcome interreg iii .
the commission is allocating 67 million pounds towards the interreg iii programme , which will be spent on continuing the development of cross-border economic projects between the republic of ireland and northern ireland .
the european union is the single largest contributor , with 80 million pounds to the international fund for ireland .
this is in line with ongoing discrimination , which ignores article 158 of the treaty on island regions with regard to cohesion policies .
this has given rise to the proposals we are making to at least extend the regions eligible to include the nuts iii sicilian provinces which have a frontier with malta and to include all the regions of the adriatic which share a frontier with balkan regions .
for a long time , probably a survival of our colonial heritage , our regions have fixed their attention on the european mainland , ignoring and even scorning their closest neighbours .
interreg appropriations may be used to make our regions into veritable european union bridgeheads into these geographical areas , giving it worldwide scope .
mr president , commissioners , i greatly welcome the possibilities for increased trans-european cooperation under interreg , but my concern is that the proposal offers fewer opportunities in this respect for maritime than for other areas .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i shall confine my observations to mr decourriere ' s report .
interreg must , therefore , be an instrument promoting territorial cohesion throughout the union if we do not wish to see a two- or even three-speed european territory .
it is obvious to me that the regional and local authorities , and their representative bodies , the committee of the regions and , of course , the european parliament should have been involved in the clearest way possible and at the earliest possible opportunity framing this programme .
indeed , i am forced to observe that this was not the case when the commission drew up its communication , published on 13 october last year .
the most remote regions , particularly the four french overseas departments , must be able to coordinate interreg iii and the edf in order to fund , in turn , cooperation projects with their acp neighbours in their respective geographical areas .
it is essential for these regions to be able to benefit fully from interreg iii , just like all the other regions in the union , especially now that the regis programme dedicated to such isolated regions has been dropped .
mr president , my starting point is the equal report and equality between men and women , although i must admit that it is sometimes hard to talk about this issue , which has a feeling of deja vu about it when you are my age , in any case .
that is why , where the good leader projects are concerned , we need to ensure that those which have proved to be outstanding are not suddenly discontinued ; instead the ideas which have proved to be worthwhile need at some stage to be transferred into the standard programmes as a reliable , positive component of our support to rural areas .
there should be no attempt to have one or other organisation , which is just being formed with a view to contributing a new idea and is not yet so well known , pushed a little on to the sidelines , say because of official local or regional policy .
my group will be supporting amendment no. 22 .
mr president , commissioners , ladies and gentlemen , leader i was an outright success due , in particular , to the great flexibility of the administrative management between the commission and the local operators .
i am pleased to see , however , that under leader + , new resources have been allocated to helping rural territories to develop their potential and to implement the objectives of local and sustainable development .
i feel it is important to put special emphasis on trying out new ways to raise the profile of the natural and cultural heritage and to strengthen the economic environment , in order to promote employment .
it is interesting to note that all rural areas may be eligible for leader ii .
nonetheless , if the opportunity for member states to determine the areas , within the scope of this initiative , remains available , then the commission will have to ensure a certain focusing of resources and prioritise projects in the less prosperous areas .
mr president , as a member from one of the outermost regions , i must point out that this is a very special afternoon as far as regional policy is concerned , because of the debate on two community initiatives , urban and interreg .
i would like to remind you that these initiatives are aimed , firstly , in the case of urban , at improving the quality of life of the citizens who live in the poorer parts of various european cities , and , in the case of interreg , at facilitating cohesion and recognising the diversity and potential of the regions of the european union , particularly by including the outermost regions in strands b and c .
it is a fact that we are debating this programme today because the european parliament insisted that this initiative should be maintained .
the commission proposed removing it and other initiatives , but parliament ' s proposal and the sensitivity of the commission itself at the time led to the urban initiative being retained .
today the programme is in place and therefore i believe we have achieved something important , that distinguishing mark of the european union called the urban programme .
the urban dimension must be incorporated much more deeply in all the structural funds .
the amount of budget required by our cities - where 80 % of the european population live and which increasingly represent both the best and the worst of what we have in europe , i believe , clearly indicates that the european dimension should be taken into account and that this urban programme should not be used as an excuse not to analyse in detail , not to prioritise and , therefore , not to introduce an infinitely greater budgetary contribution into programmes which affect the cities , by means of european funds .
in welcoming the cross-sectoral approach embodied in the new equal initiative , it is crucial that the programme addresses the distinct forms of discrimination which militate against disabled people in particular : physical barriers in the workplace affecting those with limited mobility , visual information systems which exclude blind workers , working systems which effectively close the door on people with learning difficulties or with mental health problems .
that is why this parliament has put forward paragraphs 10 and 15 of the resolution , to ensure that member states cannot ignore any one target group .
because disabled people do not form one homogenous group - for example many deaf people see themselves as a linguistic minority denied respect for their own language and culture - it is necessary as stated in paragraph 9 to enable some partnerships to be defined which are specific to a particular disability or other group .
finally , a word on interreg .
it really is quite nonsensical that partnerships set up in 1994 are being rolled over now to the exclusion of new inter-regional links .
it will therefore be necessary to increase the quality of the programmes because the eaggf is supposed to be an effective financial instrument .
it is good that urban is to continue , as it has had good results at local level .
the majority of the population of europe live in cities , and their problems are among the most pressing within the context of regional policy and very complex matters in themselves .
we always come back to the same basic problem in europe : our economy does not support the individual sufficiently , nor is it sufficiently dynamic .
mr president , with the implementation of interreg iii , european cooperation policy is entering a new phase .
in the context of globalisation and cultural openness which characterise the current situation , the european union needs instruments that will allow it to strengthen its links and communication channels with neighbouring regions , particularly in eastern and southern europe .
by means of amendments adopted in committee , parliament has tried to supplement the commission ' s work , by including new elements in the list of areas targeted for aid , and in particular external border areas and maritime border areas in southern europe .
as president prodi too mentioned when outlining the strategic objectives for the period 2000-2005 , boosting the barcelona process is a priority for the union , and the interreg iii initiative will be able to make its contribution to the pursuit of this strategic objective .
the commission cannot therefore be relieved of direct responsibility or the task of carrying out inspections under equal either .
mr president , i want to refer to the commission proposals on the budget line to promote the cap .
on 26 october 1999 the european commission adopted a proposal to ensure that a legal basis is given to the budget line informing the public about the cap .
this proposal will remove the current budget line b2-5122 and create a new budget heading b1-382 .
actions which promote understanding between young farmers and the eu and also create stronger links with eu candidate countries and the outside world are important .
regarding information and training , in the past this budget line has been allocated for information , communication and training .
these people live in areas which should benefit from these projects .
if we have success in this threefold sense , i believe that these families , these people , these european citizens , will believe more in europe , and this seems to me to be very important because , ultimately , the cities will increasingly come to play a leading role in european life .
the recently published 6th periodic report on the european regions demonstrates this clearly by revealing that the 25 most heavily agricultural regions in the european union have the highest rate of unemployment , in addition to their traditional problems of an ageing population and desertification .
i am mindful of the fact that it was in fact the european parliament which made the political decision and supported the continuation of this initiative for the regeneration of urban areas in difficulties , in favour of sustainable urban development , involving at the same time this integrated approach , which we value , to handle the economic , social and environmental aspects simultaneously .
having mentioned the fundamental points of agreement between the commission ' s proposals and parliament and , having stressed my great interest in hearing the various contributions , i should like to answer a few of the criticisms and a few of the suggestions which have been made , with apologies if i cannot attribute each of the questions to the speakers by name .
i have therefore asked my services to be willing to consider a reasonable increase in the number of towns eligible under the urban programme conditional upon certain guarantees , firstly on concentration - i am thinking particularly of the target areas which must have a minimum of 20 000 or , in exceptional cases , 10 000 inhabitants - and also upon the critical mass of funding : we must keep to eur 500 per inhabitant so that the european union action may be both effective and clear , and so that it does not resemble a sort of scattering of resources which would have no real impact either for citizens or for municipalities .
third point : specific measures in favour of some social groups - some speakers mentioned them - women , but also immigrants and refugees , must be envisaged .
but , as for the future , since we must look ahead , i am extremely concerned to see how urban is going to be implemented in practical terms , and also to see what our experience will be and what lessons we can learn , because plainly these urban issues are going to be the focus of what may be , for future financial perspectives , a new european regional planning policy .
i am not forgetting , and we cannot forget , that 80 % of the citizens of europe today live in towns and that is why this urban instrument is extremely important .
you comment that these guidelines were adopted at too late a date , stressing , particularly your rapporteur , the risk that the previous programmes will be interrupted .
i note , however , that the member states and the regions are already actively preparing the programmes for interreg iii and indeed the guidance project was distributed over three months ago now .
i also note that eligibility for expenditure shall be accepted from the date that programmes are presented and i can confirm the possibility that they may be available retroactively back to 1 january , if the programme is presented before 30 april .
as to the second comment : regarding the non-comprehensive list of measures eligible under strand b , i wish to inform you , to confirm , that i have asked the commission to accept the inclusion of other specific subjects , particularly in favour of small- and medium-sized businesses and of cultural heritage , in the list of schemes eligible under strand b and that therefore this list must no longer be considered as a comprehensive one .
as you requested , i have decided to remove all references to the use of a technical assistance office in the text until the outcome of the debate in progress within the commission on the service outsourcing systems .
but , ladies and gentlemen , if we do remove every reference and any recourse to a tao at a later date then this will have a consequence and that will be an increase in the number of officials ' jobs needed to do this work , because somebody will have to do it and i cannot keep redeploying the same staff indefinitely , at a time when our duties are increasing with the pre-accession structural instrument ( ispa ) and in order to ensure that , the community appropriations for which i am responsible , often in partnership or on terms of coresponsibility with member states , are monitored better , with discipline and transparency .
in addition to this one overture there is a second which we have already suggested to the member states : greater financial flexibility between strand a and strand b .
thanks to these two overtures , especially the first , i can say that the commission is willing to examine the case of italian regions and regions of third countries around the adriatic in order to promote the most appropriate cooperation under interreg , and with other instruments too , as soon as they become available .
i have decided , in the end , that the most remote regions , to which i attach particular importance , will be given special priority in the context of the transnational strand of interreg , with a cooperation strategy which will aim at improving their links with their neighbours and other member state regions .
all this should make it possible for us , apart from the objective 1 appropriations and also with them , to confirm the role of ' active frontier ' of the union .
another point : the coordination between interreg , phare , tacis and meda .
an initial joint phare / cip committee is to meet in february to assess this coordination , and let me confirm my attentiveness and availability with regard to this , together with my colleagues and fellow commissioners verheugen , patten and poul nielson .
according to the general regulations , however , any technical assistance scheme which can claim a connection with a community initiative must be proposed under article 20 , and not article 23 .
this means that the ceiling of 0.25 % mentioned in article 23 does not apply with regard to this type of technical assistance .
i remain at your service in order , when the time comes , to present the report of previous planning which you request , but also to keep you informed regularly as to the implementation of these initiatives in the course of the new planning .
repeating my thanks to each and every one of you , and also particularly to arlene mccarthy and francis decourriere , i should like to point out that these two initiatives lie within a financial framework with which you are familiar : only eur 700 million for urban , but this is better than nothing ; eur 4 billion 800 millions for interreg .
on the subject of these two initiatives , then , with the light they cast on future strategic and political thinking regarding regional planning and on future financial perspectives , let me express our great interest in this constructive dialogue with the european parliament and its committees .
as far as the possibility of having projects containing training initiatives is concerned , i might point out that this is precisely a point which we have now integrated into the new rural development policy , which means , in our view , that it is no longer necessary to do this as part of leader .
i should simply like to point out that this does not make very much sense at the present time because , as you know , it is still possible - and in fact will be until the end of 2001 - for leader ii funds to be disbursed .
it has already been compiled by the commission and i can make a copy available to any member of this house who is interested .
in point 21 , parliament stresses that the guidelines in leader + now need to be adopted quickly so that the programmes can start .
for all programmes submitted before 30 april of this year it will be possible to backdate the beginning of the period of eligibility to 1 january .
finally , under point 20 the motion for a resolution contains seven specific proposals for amendments to the guidelines .
the proposal in paragraph 6 will also be partly accepted because it reaffirms that the time allowed for approving programmes under leader + is a maximum of 5 months .
the amendment proposed under paragraph 1 has , in our view , been overtaken by events because , following consultations with the representatives of the member states in the star committee , this point has already been reworded along the lines proposed by parliament .
i must add , however , that cooperation between our action groups and similar groups in third countries went too far for the member states .
i will comment briefly on the 13 amendments tabled .
it is worth stressing that both parliament and the commission must put forward specific policies .
i agree that article 13 contains something we have expressed our disagreement about , but that is how the treaty stands right now and among the categories of types of discrimination , discrimination on the grounds of gender holds equal place .
i would like to remind you , however , that there is a special axis for the employment strategy which relates to women and that a special programme is being prepared , the fifth programme for equality between men and women .
approval of the minutes of the two previous sittings the minutes of the sittings of thursday 3 february and monday 14 february have been distributed .
if air france insists on boycotting the european parliament , we should take measures to prevent this occurring again .
thank you , mr medina ortega .
madam president , i had the same experience as mr medina ortega yesterday .
thank you , mr lannoye .
madam president , i should like to make a request in connection with today ' s vote which i started to make yesterday during the debate on the equal report .
mr corbett , i have not received any notification .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , a five-year programme is an extremely important undertaking , and this is why i preferred that you be given the unabridged text of the speech , which is available in four languages .
to respect my speaking time , i will confine myself to referring only to the broad outlines of my programme : a programme for the dawning of a new legislature and a new century , when it is right and proper to see europe in a broader perspective , a europe which is currently in a paradoxical situation .
let us remember that for half a century , europe has provided us with peace , security and freedom and a united europe has also contributed to giving us a period of unprecedented prosperity .
the crisis in the commission was , in fact , a crucial point in the relationship between europe and its citizens , and the low turnout at the european elections was a worrying indication of this .
even stronger still , however , is the sense of insecurity , the feeling of being unprepared in a new world that is moving forwards , a world which is completely changing , where globalisation will even end up changing our points of reference .
some countries - such as france and spain - managed to meet the challenge , giving rise to great nation states ; other countries - such as italy - did not meet this challenge and lost all the headway that they had accumulated during the first part of that millennium : headway in science , technology , economic progress , defence structures and military organisation , philosophy and literature .
but more vital still is a europe that feels strong in the political arena .
in years past , the single market and the single currency have been the pivotal point of our actions , the mainstay of european life .
today , the new frontiers of european integration are political frontiers : common foreign and security policy , justice and internal security , and - to a lesser extent - the crucial question of the fundamental political values on which our coexistence is based .
the commission has therefore adopted the strategic programme for 2000-2005 , a programme that was immediately sent to the european parliament and with which you are already familiar , so i will not go into detail about it now .
we must govern europe in such a way as to make us more efficient , to bring us closer to the citizens and to encourage everyone to get involved , starting with the important issue of the involvement of women .
one of the main differences in the comparison made recently between europe and the united states was not so much job mobility or risk capital , as women ' s involvement in economic life , an issue that has much more prominence in the united states than in europe .
the commission must define what its fundamental activities are , what it must concentrate on and shed its non-essential activities , thereby freeing up new resources and ensuring a more correct and co-operative relationship with individual countries , regions and local communities .
when that time comes , when we have used up all our resources , i shall not hesitate to come here before you to request further resources , but what i am saying now is that if we are not given these necessary resources , we shall have to refuse to take on any new duties because the available resources will not be commensurate with the new tasks that we will be taking on .
if we do not do this , we shall have failed in our duty .
remember that the marshall plan was not effective simply because of the scale of its resources : it was even more effective because it made us europeans work together towards a new horizon ; it gave us a fresh outlook in terms of our politics and our economy .
europe must prove - in the balkans and the rest of the world - its ability to extend the area of security , peace and freedom and its ability to take a leading role on the international stage .
we have made many promises in this regard , but i believe we shall succeed in keeping our promises even though we have a very delicate path to tread .
indeed , enlargement , which will be with us for our five years in office and beyond - i am referring to the aspirations of applicant countries - must hinge on concrete , objective criteria , and also on reassuring public opinion in the countries involved and , to an even greater degree , public opinion in our own member states .
i repeat : we must reassure public opinion in those countries that wish to join but we need to provide public opinion in our own member states with even greater reassurance .
we therefore have another duty at international level , which has already been proposed by the commissioner responsible for trade : the undertaking to relaunch the millennium round and to take on some fundamental problems affecting the poorest countries , not just in terms of writing off debts , but also via the unilateral opening-up to trade with the poorest countries in the world , with a great deal of willingness on our part , which we had already proposed prior to seattle but which we could not put into practice .
all over the world , europe ' s actions must be guided by a deep respect for the principles of freedom and respect for the rights of individuals and minorities .
we should remember that we , the european union , are a union of minorities : we are all a minority within europe .
this is what we wish to do : maintain our role as a supranational structure , maintain the role conferred on us by the treaties , but also be unwavering on principles and make judgements based on facts .
i would ask the council to adopt it swiftly and i would ask parliament to help us with this action which will further strengthen the fundamental bases of our social cohesion .
i will quickly conclude by mentioning the last two points of our programme : the economy and quality of life .
i have already talked about the economy : we well know which basic ingredients will set europe on the path towards a lasting recovery which will in turn create more jobs .
the forthcoming lisbon summit on these issues - dissemination of technology , employment - will be a decisive summit .
it has taken four years for us to be in a position to hold a summit of this kind .
the erika oil slick and the contamination of the danube demonstrates the pressing need for european scale intervention to safeguard the environment .
if it is higher than at the previous elections , it will mean that we have successfully met our challenge .
madam president , mr president of the commission , the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats welcomes this debate and we welcome the fact that the commission submitted a document so that we could prepare for the debate .
we read in the conclusions in the document that the five-year term of office of the prodi commission will be a time of major changes .
europe will press ahead with integration ; at the same time the union will start an enlargement process which will , in the end , reunite our continent .
however , we consider that the present is the basis of the future and we shall only be able to shape the future if we prove our worth in the present .
mr president of the commission , you have represented and defended the european parliament time and again over recent weeks .
you spoke in your paper of decentralisation and subsidiarity .
however , there is a current trend - the " fauna , flora , habitat " directive was quoted as an example - which , in my country at least , creates the impression that associations are bypassing national and regional institutions and submitting programmes to brussels and that brussels is then making decisions affecting the property of countless agricultural holdings in the countries of the european union .
we must preserve this law and peace in the european union if we are to be able to go forth as peacemakers in the world . ( applause ) madam president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i would like to welcome the presentation of , and the first ever debate on , the commission ' s programme for government - the word president prodi is so fond of ; as i am -for the whole legislature .
i am pointing this out because i believe that our support for the commission also has to lead to continuity in the work carried out throughout the legislature .
last week , the new minister for finance of the austrian coalition described the austrian parliament as a farce and a theatre .
we understand that the first priority is the economic and social agenda , which also includes what is known as ' quality of life ' priorities , that is to say , the rights of citizens as consumers and as people , in relation to those questions which we always talk about , but never give sufficient priority to , that is , the european social model and its adaptation to the new circumstances , consumer rights , respect for the environment and sustainable development .
the issue of taxation also seems to us to be absolutely essential .
i would be clearly in favour of subsidiarity .
in all other areas , i believe that subsidiarity is also relevant to this discussion .
not only should the commission discuss this , but also our states , our parliaments and our civil society .
madam president , i would like to refer briefly to the last objective , which seems to us to be absolutely fundamental : the stabilisation of the continent and the strengthening of the europe ' s role in the world .
we must not forget africa , a continent which has been forsaken , not only by god , but also by europe , nor our important contribution to cooperating with development .
the challenge of enlargement is political .
the means of achieving this are difficult but they are real .
my group is especially attracted to the creative possibilities you signal in regard to the prospect of a white paper next spring addressing the issue of governance .
that could convince people that europe , in its governance , is not something run exclusively from brussels , which concentrates and soaks up more powers , more decisions , more authority .
for my group , enlargement is the first priority against which all the other possibilities for reform must be measured , be they governance , be they the intergovernmental conference , be they reform of the institutions .
the strategic paper emphasises the global role of the european union .
our central aim must be to give the union a weight in global affairs commensurate with its weight in terms of aid , trade and finance .
we need to open that debate .
madam president , mr president of the commission , i greatly admire the openness with which you admit that the european union must change fundamentally .
do please raise this issue at the intergovernmental conference .
in this respect , parliament will definitely defend , along with yourselves , the importance of supranational decision-making .
you must embark on a dialogue with the international community .
the european union could be critically important in a process in which the united nations and the wto really do become subject to democratic monitoring .
madam president , my group was one of those which wanted to have a document allowing an exchange of views on the commission ' s strategic objectives within the group before this debate , instead of being reduced to an on-the-spot reaction in plenary .
a more balanced and more rigorous diagnosis would be welcome in my view .
for example , at least in the countries which i know well , i doubt that the intention , repeated three or four times in the commission document , to reform ' europe ' s social protection , health care and pension systems ... in a climate of more cautious public spending ' will meet the needs of those whose confidence we apparently want to win back .
this is a starting point and we have five years to succeed , provided that the political will exists and is expressed with sufficient force and clarity .
we await the white paper on the governance of the european union dealing with the issue of balance between member states ' governments and the european union institutions which is to be published this summer .
on this specific point i think it is important that we address the reform of the internal decision-making procedures of the commission .
this is a scenario whereby the european union has a membership of over 25 member states .
i believe this would fly in the face of the spirit and objective of the treaty of rome and all subsequent treaties .
i would like to remind those who seek to eliminate the right of small member states to nominate a european commissioner that the united states of america gives smaller states the same recognition as larger states in the united states senate .
more or less each of the 50 states in the us has two elected positions in the united states senate , regardless of its population .
it would be very difficult for those who propose a ' yes ' vote in any such future treaty to win the support of the irish people if we lose our right to have our nominee to the european commission .
undoubtedly , reform of the european council is also going to be included in this white paper on the governance of the european union which will be published this summer .
i do not believe that there is broad support in europe for the introduction of qualified majority voting on taxation , justice and home affairs , and foreign affairs at european union level .
at present , under article 99 of the treaty of rome , decisions taken at eu level concerning tax changes must be by unanimity .
i support the enlargement of the european union .
i support institutional changes so as to ensure that enlargement of the union takes place in a streamlined and structured manner .
president of the commission , a short while ago you said that no political structure sets out five-year plans .
there was only one point that you really stressed - too much in my opinion - and that was that it looks almost as if the highest priority task that you are setting yourself is to cease " unnecessary " activities .
we should be careful , though , mr prodi , because we had a crisis of confidence in the previous commission and backed this commission - at least a parliamentary majority backed this commission - precisely because , first and foremost , the reform of the commission would bring consolidation , a new identity and a new awareness of being guided by a firm hand .
it seems that you are proposing the same old menu , but with more unsatisfactory implications , restricting the commission , so you say , to the task of drawing up a few white papers , as you proposed .
the same goes for enlargement as an end in itself , without it being linked to a reform to make the european union and its structures much more efficient , and to proposals that the commission could have made at the igc .
madam president , mr prodi , i should like to applaud your proposal for a radical decentralisation of the union ' s activities and ask why , then , you are proposing a legislative programme which would lead to centralisation .
madam president , this morning the commission president , mr prodi , has set out ambitious goals for the european union for the next five years , laudable aims indeed , to make a strong and effective european presence felt in the world : succeeding with enlargement , meeting the challenge of selling e-europe , introducing better principles of governance .
but how are we to succeed when the resources available are limited and the credibility of our institutions is not very high ?
here there are three elements i would like to contribute .
we must not fear globalisation , but we must also make sure that we understand its political impact in the network society .
we will be looking at this closely when we come to the annual programmes of proposed legislation .
we must establish priorities and make sure there is value for money in each of these programmes .
lastly , we need to ensure that there is proper , genuine reform of the european commission .
yes , the commission - guardian of the treaties - is meant to be an independent body , but it also has to be accountable to european citizens through our parliament .
the commission does not reflect the majority in this particular parliament .
we in parliament have a major role to play in the shaping of governance in europe .
this governance therefore needs to be a sensitive governance so that we can actually work together and understand that each of the institutions in the european union , has its relevant role to play .
madam president , mr president of the commission , numerous steps have been taken in the past to strengthen the european union , from the euro to resolutions on a common security policy ; even to the response by the 14 , the commission and parliament to the new coalition in austria .
the union professes its faith in its fundamental values in the treaty of amsterdam and the institutions of the eu confirmed this faith once again when the new coalition was formed in austria .
however , the full potential of these values will only be realised if they are set out in comprehensive detail in and form part of the treaty and , in the final analysis , represent legal claims on the part of individual citizens .
in this sense , the commission must insist on building up the common area of freedom , security and justice and in this sense i disagree with the last two speakers .
we are in the process of building a house but too few of our citizens really feel at home in our house .
that , as you have said yourself today , means that you must also identify tasks , policies and programmes which are peripheral or irrelevant to the commission 's main vocation .
many existing european union policies and programmes may simply have passed their sell-by date , or have been proved unwieldy or ineffective when administered at european level .
if we are to succeed in persuading a sceptical european public of the merits of further european integration , we must be able to demonstrate that we are as active in the devolution of unwarranted eu powers as we are in the evolution of new eu powers .
it must be shown to be a two-way process in which existing eu policies and programmes , which are not clearly justified on the grounds of subsidiarity and proportionality , are devolved and repealed .
madam president , mr prodi , i fully support the thinking of the proposals made by my colleague , mrs hautala , on the commission ' s strategic objectives for the coming five years .
rather , i want to start by welcoming certain proposals which you have made in this programme for 2000 .
the commission should react quickly in this respect .
for example , in the social area , it is not enough to announce a communication on a programme of social action .
on the environment , you have announced a proposal for a decision on a sixth action programme on the environment .
the commission has a role both within the eu and throughout the world .
madam president , you spoke about fundamental political values , and one of the fundamental political values , even more important than democracy , is respect for others .
we therefore need resources available to spend before proceeding to enlargement , so that we can at last establish a european monitoring body responsible for monitoring quality of life and living conditions , with the aim of creating a new world where such tragedies will no longer occur .
we live in a world of rules and regulations : let us regulate the internet too and give our fellow citizens rules and hope for the future .
madam president , mr president of the commission , members of the commission , five months after its coming into office , the commission committed to paper the direction in which it aims to steer the european union .
moreover , europe as a continent is a great deal more than just the fifteen eu member states .
you stated that the new european government requires strong institutions , while the commission wants to focus at the same time on its core tasks .
in the tradition of our continent , this realisation is an important one which merits recognition .
the european commission will need to play an important director ' s role in this , provided that clear and attainable objectives are in place .
clear priorities , focus , and , above all , communication with society to inform them of what we are up to , are the key goals .
but then i wonder : if there is talk of a real common policy , of a system of crisis prevention and crisis control at community level , where are the actual proposals then ?
indeed , at the end of the day , we need these in order to verify whether we can realise our objectives in this area .
madam president , words are essential , but we can only judge the commission on its merits .
secondly , the new " in " word is flexibility .
however , increasing flexibility can or quickly threatens to turn into intergovernmentalisation .
it is too high a price , not only for the member states already in the union but also for the states which want to join the union .
that goes far beyond your new economic and social agenda or a new , better quality of life .
the commission must carry on negotiations that are a decisive attempt to have each applicant country join the union as soon as possible .
madam president , mr president of the commission , commissioners , your inspiring speech , mr prodi , has quite won me over .
it raises expectations , but it can also lead to disappointment .
regions which , culturally and economically , sometimes match the interest of some member states .
the new europe should not only expand horizontally , but also vertically , by living by our values in practice and by developing a democratic structure of a real community .
so , in the first part on the new forms of european governance , the words ' federalism ' and ' superstate ' are not mentioned at all .
these ambiguities mask many misunderstandings , primarily about our values .
in the union for a europe of nations group our principles are rather different .
clearly we want to defend the countries of europe but we also want to respect the autonomy of nations .
madam president , mr prodi , you claim to be shaping a new europe yet you are lacking one basic element : confidence .
yet at the same time you are supporting communist china and trading with countries which have openly violated human rights for decades .
you will cynically and hypocritically use austria as a convenient threat to further strip the member states of any real powers in the construction of the european union .
your commissioners are clearly not solely responsible for this .
the governments which , through spinelessness or ideology , support you are also responsible .
the archbishop of milan , monsignor carlo maria martini , is calling upon all politicians , in particular those like you and me , president prodi , for whom the cultural and historic principle behind their presence in politics is the principle of the active involvement of catholics in politics , to reconsider a development process , which , in addition to economic profit , takes the marginalised and those left behind by society very much into account .
the fundamental element for the development of each person - his freedom , which comes before economic gain - is thus enhanced .
this social freedom , which becomes manifest in initiatives favouring the poor , gives excellent results in terms of social justice and stability .
madam president , president of the commission , this is a vital document for the future and fate of europe .
however , out of all the points , two specifically require our attention , and they are closely linked : peace and stability within europe and outside europe .
for some time , we have all agreed on this notion , but we must also clearly affirm that these objectives will not be achieved without enlargement , even if this comes at a price .
these goals will be more easily obtainable only if the intergovernmental conference , which will draw to a close within the year , results in constitutional reform , providing the commission with real and adequate powers so that it will no longer merely implement council decisions or parliament ' s codecisions but will have to perform the role of a real european government .
in essence this means applying the principle of subsidiarity .
precise application of this principle can only reinforce the actions taken and give our citizens a clear view of each level of competence .
in 1998 , 123 referrals were made to the court of justice for non-application or non-transposition and 25 % of environmental directives were not applied or transposed .
recent events have shown us that these regulations are essential .
you have not highlighted the ageing of our population which will fundamentally alter the structure of our society , not only economically but also in terms of public health .
finally , you do highlight european research as being at the heart of our future .
madam president , we can only endorse the general guidelines of the five-year programme and of the programme for 2000 , set out with so much enthusiasm by president prodi this morning .
in the two documents , strong emphasis is placed on the need to define new forms of european governance and , to this end , to introduce a new agenda for the commission , establishing more stringent priorities in the pursuit of the goal of full employment , through more efficient coordination of the economic and social policies of the states , and , primarily - allow me to stress this - of the nations that have joined the monetary union and which must be enabled to become the first example of closer cooperation .
to this end , i shall confine myself to stressing , out of all the choices available , the importance of three priority decisions which should , in the drawing-up of action programmes for the government of the union , be the basis for both the commission ' s agenda and the actions of the european union in the coming months .
secondly , the approval of investments - where the parameters are binding when drawing up action programmes on employment - to be made in individual countries via community projects in the priority sectors of research , innovation and training .
i feel that these parameters - particularly those of a qualitative nature , resulting from investments in continuous training , refresher courses , adaptability and retraining of older workers - are considerably more significant and binding owing to their lasting effects over the medium term than the simple drawing up of annual quantitative objectives , that are always debatable , regarding new employment or employment cuts .
you say that you will not hesitate to come to this house to request more resources for the commission , but the commission must be aware that we are walking on thin financial ice .
madam president , the commission communication is well written but sufficiently vague to allow any interpretation whatsoever .
we socialists applaud the commission for wanting to fight against social exclusion and poverty .
everyone knows that quality of life and full and better employment depend on sustainable economic growth .
the union is currently restricted to a policy of stability which is certainly necessary but insufficient .
in the world of new technologies , the main danger remains that access to information will be easier the richer you are .
the gulfs which are opening up everywhere are the main problem for our era .
to conclude , the next five years will be crucial .
madam president , mr president of the commission , commissioners , in my view , this strategy paper has two clear weaknesses .
that makes sense from an economic and an ecological point of view .
our citizens cannot understand that we are deregulating air traffic , but leaving 15 different sectors in the skies which are under national control , which have an adverse economic impact on the airlines and which pollute the environment .
commissioner , far too little is said in your paper about regional policy .
if we fail to complete it , citizens in less favoured regions will dread enlargement .
madam president , mr president of the commission , commissioners , the fact that we are formulating new programmes does not mean that we should neglect those older programmes which are at implementation stage .
the agenda 2000 issues are , of course , ones that relate to your third and fourth strategic objectives , the economic and social agenda and a better quality of life .
this is because it is essential to achieve two things : the european model of multifunctionality in agriculture must be secured , and this must be done in a way which facilitates the liberalisation of world trade in agricultural products , mainly to the benefit of developing countries .
as for fishing , there is nothing in your programme to tell us that the predatory exploitation of fishing grounds , which has gone as far as to wipe out entire species of fish , will certainly prove fruitful in the future .
madam president , mr prodi , ladies and gentlemen , at the time of our vote on your appointment we invited you to come here today .
the interlinking of the eu institutions , the responsibilities of the member states and the local and regional authorities is all very well .
our people expect more europe , but not just any europe .
they are expecting us not to fall in with globalisation but rather , on the basis of our social model , to be able to organise globalisation .
in this respect i must say that , in terms of your commitment to a political union , to which we are favourable , this cannot be achieved unless it is based on our social model , on our originality and our capacity to better regulate the business of this world .
madam president , mr president of the commission , commissioners , i should like to start with a quote : " the commission will continue to work towards establishing a european charter of fundamental rights and draw up proposals to bring about an ambitious programme .
we here in parliament want to hold a serious discussion about the future development in this policy area on the basis of a programme .
madam president , i would also like to welcome the commission ' s initiative of presenting us with a report on its strategic objectives for the next five years , although i hope that it intends , in subsequent documents , to avoid the excess of generalisations and the vagueness of the text which we are examining today .
it is really surprising that the commission does not treat the revision of one of its common policies as a strategic objective for the coming years , in view of the reform which must take place in 2002 .
there is no doubt whatsoever that this revision process will be the most important thing to affect the fishing industry for many years .
however , it seems that the commission does not share this view , although it is the commission which is obliged to present the council and parliament with a report on the functioning of the common fisheries policy over the last decade before the end of 2001 , and it is on this basis that the council will have to make the appropriate decisions with regard to its modification .
in fact , the revision process has already begun for many bodies and institutions , such as the european parliament , which in 1998 already issued and adopted a report pointing out all the current problems and deficiencies of the common fisheries policy .
less than two years is not much time if we bear in mind also that the fishing policy is anomalous with regard to the internal market regulations and that such anomalies should be resolved within the framework of this reform process .
madam president , i should like to add my congratulations to commissioner prodi 's programme .
full employment is the best way to generate social justice for our citizens .
yes , e-europe will be the future for us because it will help us create new prosperity and new jobs .
i welcome the commission initiatives now and in the past to support our small and medium-sized enterprises and i would like to congratulate our portuguese presidency for its initiative on having a charter for micro-businesses .
there is still more we have to do , and the lisbon summit will become part of that .
madam president , mr president of the commission , i should like to focus on two points which are not mentioned in your programme .
i am talking about the integration of the policies of the culture industry in this area of training and culture ; they create jobs .
you say in your five-year programme that the people of the european union rightly expect food standards to be higher and better foodstuffs legislation .
i feel duty bound to publicly denounce the fact that fishing is absent from the programme which you have presented to us .
not a single line , nor a single word , refers to fishing or the cfp .
you have made an explicit reference to the cap for the coming years , but you have not done so for the cfp , with regard to the double adaptation of the internal market which is necessary to prevent exceptions - as has already been said - and in a global context , in the context of globalisation .
this house has expressed its opinion on the first issue and it will also do so on the second .
on behalf of the socialist group , i would like to focus on the point of internal reform .
at the same time , we are aware that this is a massive programme and that , during the overhaul in the next couple of years , it will be necessary to keep the actual results coming in , as before .
this can be prevented if a european social model is drawn up and if results are achieved in all these concrete areas .
because this citizen - one in five globally - still has no access to elementary social provisions , such as education and health care .
madam president , mr president of the commission , i have read and re-read the commission ' s document setting out the strategic objectives for its term in office .
we should take into consideration the sixth periodic report on the situation of the regions in the european union , for which the commission is responsible .
this report confirms that whereas an average level of development is given a rating of 100 , the ten so-called " strongest " regions reached an average of 158 , and the ten so-called " weakest " regions reached a figure of around 50 .
i am waiting for the commission ' s report on the ultra-peripheral regions , which the council decided should be drawn up by december 1999 .
firstly , mr president , although your two predecessors concentrated on developing an internal market and establishing the single currency , it has been left to you to develop this whole value of citizenship which is at the heart of european construction .
your action programme and your objectives are reserved , even silent , specifically on the stimulation of public investment which is needed .
this is an absolute priority if you are to reconcile europe with the people and ensure that the people choose europe rather than jorg haider .
the recent dioxin scare in belgium , prior to that the bse crisis in britain , and the continuing controversy over the safety of genetically-modified foods , have all contributed to undermining consumer confidence in the safety of the food they eat .
if the commission can indeed restore confidence in the food production chain it will simultaneously restore confidence in the european union institutions themselves and demonstrate their ability to protect the rights of eu citizens .
i therefore welcome the fact that the issue of food safety , public health and consumer confidence features prominently in the commission 's work programme for 2000 .
however , i was disappointed with the nature of the proposal for the establishment of a european food authority in the recent white paper .
furthermore , future legislation must address the modus operandi of the relationship between the european food authority and the authorities of national member states , for example the food safety authority in ireland .
this body , for example , alongside the recently established cross-border body in ireland for food safety , is already doing good work .
we will be looking for the detail year by year , for example in the social action programme to be unveiled this year .
within the social dimension we will be looking for a deepening of the internal market with a social aspect .
mr prodi , you set great store in your reform efforts on introducing a forward-looking employment policy throughout europe .
we must reduce protective tariffs in order to safeguard effective capacity utilisation in undertakings in the processing industry .
however , i am sure that i do not need to remind you of the importance of a branch of the economy which is both an economic and a social factor , which affects not only germany but all the coastal regions of europe .
madam president , many of the speakers from the socialist group have already identified key areas where there are gaps in the commission ' s statement .
one area that i want to focus on , in addition to those already identified , is that of cultural diversity in europe .
but there is nothing in the statement which indicates that the commission intends to take any steps to deal with the issue of cultural diversity .
if we are to ensure that we defeat the fear-mongers amongst us - those seeking power on the backs of anxious citizens - then we must seriously address the question of how we can live together and how we can dismantle the negative stereotypes that we have of each other , both within the present european union and among those who seek to join us and , indeed , among those in other parts of europe and the world who want to come and live and work in europe .
it has been a calm debate with broad agreement over the basic points , but also where there has been a marked reassertion of parliament ' s rights and of the need for cooperation and dialogue between parliament , the commission and the council .
it has been a constructive debate for europe .
mrs hautala , i think you were almost right in saying this , because it is indeed a political manifesto .
cast your minds back - i recall this because it took place in this very chamber - to the speech given by the president of the french republic on the issues of reinforced cooperation which reopened a dialogue that appeared closed prior to this .
i hope that globalisation will continue to have this positive aspect in the future , but - and this is going to be one of our major commitments in the future - it leads to problems in poor countries and in our countries , problems that we must address .
and it also leads to problems in the weakest sectors of our countries .
clearly , when our young graduates notice differences in salaries , small or large depending on the type of employment they are in , and when the financial sector pays wages that are x number of times higher than someone working in research , for example , all of this creates problems relating to the organisation of our future society .
i started to respond in lisbon , by attempting to reduce the marginalisation of an entire age group , that is , to provide all the young people of europe with new instruments for communication , broadly reunite all the european schools and create new opportunities to prevent geographical and social marginalisation in europe .
too often , subsidiarity has been lauded in theory but has not been understood in practice .
we must give subsidiarity a material body and a political soul : this is the aim of the white paper , which must put value back into europe and recommend what practical action to undertake .
let us remember how often we have been made into a laughing-stock because we deal with things that are absolutely ridiculous , which defy common sense and conflict with the interests of our population .
regarding this matter and this transformation , the commission can and must be a real leader , relieved of useless burdens , given more credibility because it takes tangible form in its " core business " and because it does not make requests but instead rejects unnecessary tasks and powers .
the commission must become a driving force .
we have done the same thing in the white paper regarding the food sector .
just as enlargement is a difficult challenge , this is too because it has never before been attempted .
at the time of the actual decision , here , we shall all have to be united in order to demonstrate that enlargement is in the interests of peace , prosperity and is taking place by way of a guarantee , as i said before , for our people , in addition to a guarantee for the countries which are attempting to enlarge .
i have just been to lithuania , slovakia and romania , three countries where we have had to request nuclear power stations to be closed .
if we do not act in these sectors of civilisation , it will be impossible for africa to act .
i did not mention it because i believe that the five-year programme must set out the major policy lines regarding general development , but i am convinced of its enormous importance for cohesion and european solidarity .
it is precisely with these essential functions , with which we must ensure respect for our irreplaceable , political and moral role at europe ' s helm , that the commission must strive to show the advantages and costs of our policies and to be very clear for a population that asks us for clarity , that asks us to be absolutely transparent .
it reassures me because i have perceived a broad consensus on the basic lines of our programme and because i have the impression that its true substance has been understood .
it emerged clearly , but forcefully that the challenges before us are the great political challenges that we must tackle together .
this makes close collaboration between parliament and the commission even more important .
in any case , this debate has further convinced me that the major challenges that lie ahead are political challenges .
and mr baron crespo , we cannot forget that the five-year programme was unable to exert any practical influence in the world ; it disappeared from political manifestos when siena 's role in the world weakened .
mr president , first of all let me say that i am in full support of a statute for assistants .
yesterday when i arrived in parliament i was handed a document relating to a proposed demonstration by the assistants outside the doors of parliament .
as all colleagues will know - and many of you have approached me over the last six months - all exhibitions and such like are filtered first of all through the comart committee of parliament .
following a letter i received yesterday , i immediately informed the assistants that we would propose that they be allowed to hold a meeting or demonstration , probably in the near future and possibly in the next month .
but all exhibitions must be carried out in a way that do not interfere with the orderly running of parliament .
but all exhibitions are in fact looked at first by the so-called comart committee .
thank you , mrs banotti .
the combination of these two positions makes for a mixture which could be disastrous for the future for europe .
i counted no less than seven calls in the resolution , at different points , for equal rights for european citizens and legal immigrants .
this has become a real obsession .
finally , the european parliament calls for a review of immigration policy in view of the population situation .
for these areas , the intergovernmental conference must devise new cooperation procedures based on the political role of the council and interparliamentary control exercised by the national parliaments .
however , we have voted against paragraphs 2 and 6 , because they seem to us to be legally incorrect .
on the other hand , we have voted in favour of recital j which , in fact , is in line with what i , as draftsperson of the opinion of the committee on citizens ' freedoms , proposed to that committee , with a view to the intergovernmental conference .
for similar reasons , we have voted in favour of paragraph 14 which , with the oral amendment , dealt with certain very justifiable concerns about the question of subsidiarity , since political rights , not just voting in local elections , but political rights in general terms , form part of the sovereignty of member states .
the europe of schengen clearly finds it much easier to hound the persecuted from the south than dictators , even though the un estimates that we will need 159 million immigrants to maintain a stable population between now and the year 2025 .
mccarthy report ( a5-0026 / 2000 ) mr president , i would firstly like to point out that i was mayor of bilbao during the nineties , which gave me the opportunity to present one of the first urban pilot projects to be subsidised by the commission .
thirdly , we have to bear in mind the synergies generated by other community programmes , as well as the opportunities for sustainable development in the location or region in question .
lastly , in today ' s vote on our four amendments , two have been approved and the other two rejected .
this has obliged us to abstain from the final vote , because we do not understand how we can ignore the environmental question when deciding which projects must be financed and we do not understand how we can reject the idea that each member state can dedicate , to urban projects , that portion of the structural funds which it has not spent in accordance with community programmes .
mr president , i would like to point out that i voted for this report on sustainable urban development , known as urban .
as with all other community initiatives , this is very positive .
there can be no worse situation than that of an elderly person living in a city .
at a forthcoming review of these programmes , it ought to be established that the eu ' s efforts are to be concentrated upon cross-border tasks and adapted to the possible enlargement of the eu . . ( da ) we have voted in favour of the report on the communication from the commission concerning the guidelines for a community initiative relating to the economic and social regeneration of cities and neighbourhoods in crisis and designed to promote sustainable development ( urban ) .
with some 80 % of the population of europe living in an urban area , cities are at the forefront of economic , social and cultural change in europe .
at the same time , the social and economic problems facing european society are more pronounced in urban areas .
the concentration of economic and social problems in certain urban areas calls for targeted intervention taking full account of the complexity of the problems involved .
this is why the european parliament successfully called for the urban community initiative or cip to be extended during the reform of the structural funds .
the success of urban during the 1994-1999 programming period is indisputable .
the results are clear in terms of the improvement of the quality of life in the target areas .
the new initiative will continue to pursue these goals by reinforcing them , while particularly promoting equal opportunities between men and women and integrating socially marginalised and disadvantaged groups .
this reduction in funding has led to a reduction in the number of programmes in the new urban initiative .
so far , portugal has had six projects financed , on behalf of the municipal authorities of oporto , gondomar , lisbon , odivelas , oeiras and amadora .
although we welcome the determination to create a system of exchanges between successful enterprises , the problems specific to each urban area cannot be dealt with in the same way .
the urban community initiative is helping to achieve the european union ' s desire to communitise urban policy .
it would be more appropriate for the eu to concentrate its financial efforts on pre-existing european policies .
finally , the report specifically highlights actions in favour of ethnic or sociological minorities .
decourriere report ( a5-0028 / 2000 ) mr president , the interreg programme is particularly close to our hearts .
the answer is quite simply because the projects currently being submitted are still too often damaging to the environment due to the way they are submitted .
we know that some member states are still wavering , for example , between rail and road for routes through vulnerable areas such as the pyrenees , as in the aspe valley .
however , i am also thinking of my own region where my government is still debating whether to route the railway or to build a second motorway , the a32 .
in this respect too , i would ask the commission to be particularly attentive about ensuring that there is real cohesion between the various policies , specifically in the interreg programmes which are being submitted .
this is why the interreg community initiative was launched in 1990 .
this programme was designed to encourage cross-border , transnational and interregional cooperation and to promote balanced development of the community territory in order to enhance economic and social cohesion in the union .
i must stress that interregional cooperation significantly encourages the involvement of local and regional authorities in the process of european integration .
more active participation by these authorities in community initiatives should be promoted , bearing in mind that in many cases they have a very limited capacity for cooperation because of the different legal frameworks and different levels of development on either side of the border .
in the same respect , given that structural unemployment is responsible for 50 % of all unemployment , the interreg funds made available must be sufficient to supplement national measures promoting employment .
i hope that the projects included within the programmes can help to provide solutions to these problems and to implement in practical terms the principle of free movement of workers which is in a bad way in my region !
interreg resources must also contribute to the development of a european research area .
between 1994 and 1999 , our regions annually received an average of ff 15.4 billion but will receive only ff 14.7 billion between 2000 and 2006 .
my region of nord-pas-de-calais will be particularly affected with french hainaut losing the aid paid to objective 1 regions .
this loss is unjustified in a region whose main activities have been ruined by free-trade europe .
the european regional policy also reinforces the centralism of brussels with which the regional authorities are invited to negotiate directly on the use of the structural funds .
the interreg initiative , launched in 1990 to prepare the border regions for a europe without borders and therefore without nations , sits comfortably within this philosophy .
i want to defend an amendment tabled by my group on the maritime aspect of this community initiative .
this does not involve the concerns about the future of the atlantic arc but rather the need to integrate the principle of maritime borders into strand a on cross-border cooperation .
in the commission guidelines , few maritime areas are eligible for interreg iiia .
interreg iii , strand a , would allow the regions in this area to advance a number of structural projects needed to develop small and medium-sized undertakings and to promote research and technical development through knowledge transfer .
the european commission should therefore be able to participate in the construction of port and airport infrastructure to provide links between regions .
this policy would have important economic consequences for the fishing industry in brittany in that catches could be unloaded at irish advance bases in order to then be transported to the breton agri-foodstuffs industry .
the integration of the maritime border into strand a would finally allow the western periphery to be recognised as a unique and important economic area which is confronted by the ' continentalisation ' of the european union .
we therefore must not leave it out of innovative and pilot community programmes which will allow the new geographical and economic map of europe to be defined . . ( da ) the european project began as a partnership between states .
the eu should be prepared to meet that competition .
it should not be about greater integration of the eu countries in the form of a federation but about using our economic potential across national borders .
nonetheless , the french delegation in our group was unable to accept the fact that the commission and the federalist faction have diverted the interreg initiative from its original purpose in order to detract still further from the political role of the nations .
we have no intention of giving brussels the job of regulating regional planning in the member states , as suggested in recital of the report .
we are therefore unable to approve the development of strand iiic of the community initiative encouraging interregional cooperation under the responsibility of the commission and sidelining the member states .
this infatuation with strand iiic is all the stranger in that the rapporteur himself acknowledges in his explanatory statement that ' the draft guidelines do not provide any indication of possible fields of co-operation ' ( p.17 ) and that ' the responsibilities are diffuse and vague ' ( p.18 ) .
calling under these circumstances , as he does in paragraph 20 , for the budget for this strand to be increased is another example of the irresponsible and ideological outbidding tactics which are customary in this house .
it is up to washington , not us , to assume responsibility for a conflict which was triggered merely to serve its interests .
the french delegation in our group is therefore unable to support the decourriere report and will choose to abstain during the final vote .
procacci report ( a5-0025 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the procacci report on rural development , not only because i endorse the major policy lines of the leader programme , but also because it complements the urban programme , which i spoke about earlier .
i therefore believe that it is very important for everyone to back this european union plan and for it to be further developed .
however , first i should like to take this opportunity to express my full support for the focal points of the commission ' s new programme .
that applies in particular to the integrated , multisectoral approach which is gaining ground in the agricultural sector and which is highlighted time and again by national agricultural ministers in the member states .
and greater emphasis on environmental protection in connection with rural areas in general is extremely important for the future of all of us .
our position on leader is a product of our more general assessment of the eu ' s overall agricultural policy .
both leader 1 and leader 2 , which were implemented in the 1990s , were ingredients of the new cap that emerged after its review in 1992 and , along with other respective measures , they constituted the so-termed second pillar of the eu ' s rural development policy .
the present cap , however , is worse than its predecessor and it also starts from a worse basis , granted that the 1992 cap review and the gatt agreement in 1995 have created serious problems and impasses for the agricultural economy .
in no case , however , are they programmes for the integrated development of the selected areas and they do not create permanent jobs in the countryside because most of the activities there are not productive in nature .
the actual appropriations available for leader + compared with leader 2 are smaller despite their increase by 15 % ( from eur 1 775 million for leader 2 to eur 2 020 million for leader + ) .
this is because the 15 % increase is nominal and not real , granted that average yearly inflation in the community during those years was approximately 2 % .
however , we amended the draft report adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development in order to clarify certain points which will make this community initiative more effective .
it was also essential to ensure that better account is taken of the development priorities of local operators and that the benefit of leader + funds is not limited solely to agricultural regions with a low population density .
amendment no 10 which i tabled on behalf of my group refers to the concept of ' economic and social cohesion ' rather than ' regional development ' as the european union does not have any recognised competence in this area .
amendment no 11 replaces ' government or municipal officials ' with ' government officials ' .
it specifies the necessary coordination between leader + and community cooperation and partnership programmes such as interreg , phare , sapard or meda .
in the territory of member states of the european union , applicant countries or member states of efta , there may be interrelations between the various community initiatives .
in essence , we are , of course , in favour of this leader + community initiative .
the conference on rural development held in cork from 7 to 9 november 1996 set rural development as one of the european union ' s priorities since it is essential to preserve the integrity of our agriculture and the whole rural fabric , including infrastructure , public and private services and so on .
in this context , in committee we regretted the paltry funding allotted to rural development and supported the amendments calling for an increased budget for this community initiative so that it matches the previous leader i and leader ii initiatives .
this is unacceptable given the importance of rural development and the consequences for farmers of the fall in prices and aid specified in the reform of the cap following the berlin agreements .
as far as we in the committee on agriculture and rural development are concerned , so far so good .
we asked the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , which pointed out that , as far as approximating laws is concerned , article 37 is adequate in this case .
we negotiated with the commission for two years on the seed directive and came to a compromise regulating the release of genetically-modified organisms in the directive , taking the text on which directive 70 / 524 is based as a starting point .
the commission pointed out in committee that it plans to present a novel feed directive in the future .
we are therefore assuming that you will accept our proposed amendment with regard to genetically-modified organisms .
directive 70 / 524 still contains the old text because the seed directive was submitted to parliament in 1986 and we then negotiated with the commission until 1988 , while the report on this directive was dealt with in 1994 and parliament obviously did not accord genetically-modified organisms the same importance then as it did later when i was rapporteur .
we therefore assume , commissioner byrne , that you too will accept our proposed amendment of the legal base .
mr president , commissioner , does regulating additives in feedingstuffs come under competition or consumer policy ?
food safety must take absolute priority over feedingstuffs in all our discussions .
mr president , this proposal to amend the 1970 directive on additives in feedingstuffs is the first in a whole series of proposals on the subject of feedingstuffs .
however , the committee on agriculture and rural development has voted unanimously on some important amendments to the commission proposal .
it is therefore only logical that we make provision for genetically modified feedingstuff additives in this case , just as we have in regulations already passed in other areas , such as forest reproductive material , to mention just one example .
however , there is another environmental principle at stake , namely the exchange principle .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the report on additives in animal feedingstuffs concerns the technical and economic problem of restoring the competitive balance between different additives in feedingstuffs and between producers of these additives .
yet after the serious dioxin crisis which affected belgium and other european countries last summer we cannot just view this issue in terms of competition .
in any case , the precautionary principle requires these products to be clearly traceable at all stages of their marketing .
also , amendments nos 4 and 5 to the new article 2a must be approved as these will ensure that genetically modified additives are clearly identified as such , thus allowing users to make fully informed decisions .
mr president , because of the availability of high-technology additives in the feedingstuffs industry , detailed information on their use is needed from the actors , and as we know there are a lot of them , so that we can put a stop to practices which infringe community law .
this directive on additives in feedingstuffs cannot achieve this on its own .
it reflects the views and concerns of all eu citizens in the area of food safety and quality .
the events of the past couple of years have certainly created an awareness and concern about the real threat to food safety and public health .
the swift action taken by this parliament must be seen by all citizens as their greatest guarantee for the future , for you have set an agenda on food quality to which member states must conform .
but even in this crucial area of administration , parliament reflects its commitment to subsidiarity by encouraging member states to take on and to face up to their responsibility .
in agenda 2000 , we have in my view prioritised policies that are of direct concern to citizens : food safety , water quality , environmental protection and rural development .
i compliment the new commissioner responsible for food safety , mr byrne .
i am particularly pleased that my own country , ireland , is to the forefront in the implementation of new food regulations based on the principle of traceability .
a coherent legal framework must be re-established .
i am sure that the commission can accept the report which , as you know , was approved unanimously in the committee on agriculture and rural development .
mr president , we have said in this house time and again since the bse crisis that feedingstuffs are one of the first and most important factors in safe food production and in consumer health and protection .
we therefore welcome the commission ' s proposal on additives in feedingstuffs .
the committee on behalf of which i am speaking , namely the committee on the environment , public health and consumer protection , decided in december , on the assumption that the chairman of the committee on agriculture would draft such a good report , that we could waive our opinion .
nevertheless , i should like to say a few words on the report and express a view on a number of points .
even if we have new rules of procedure in parliament , and it may well be that , with such an ambitious chairman in the committee on agriculture , problems of legislative competence will arise more and more frequently between the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment , one thing is always crystal clear for me in this sort of conflict : cohesion in this parliament is crucial and the legal basis of a question is crucial as far as i am concerned .
the treaty of amsterdam states quite clearly that , where people ' s health is concerned , article 152 is the correct legal base , and may i say to our own committee on legal affairs and the internal market that it is simply not good enough to look at the commission ' s proposal and say , there is nothing in it about health and consumer protection , so it has nothing to do with health and consumer protection .
mr byrne , i ask you to accept and agree to the change of legal basis for the sake of transparency and good cooperation .
what has happened in recent years has brought to our attention the tremendous problems facing not only to the producers of food but also the consumers .
we must resolve this issue , because it is important that consumers should regain confidence in the food they eat .
gmos are the new challenge facing us .
but i think we should not allow our concerns about gmos to overshadow our concerns about growth promoters used in animal feed or antibiotics used in compound feed .
one factor behind these developments that has been referred to in this debate is competition - competition between member states on the cost of the production of food .
the main problem is a financial one , namely who bears the cost ?
the commission proposal is , as some of you have said , rather technical .
the purpose of the commission 's proposal is to harmonise procedures to ensure that no such difference exists .
i would simply point out that the commission proposal makes no reference to health or consumer protection .
the proposed amendment is technical and cannot be interpreted as having as its primary objective the protection of public health .
i note that parliament 's committee on legal affairs and the internal market also accepts that article 37 is the appropriate legal base .
i remind parliament that in article 152 the primary objective is the protection of health .
amendments nos 2 and 3 go much further than the commission proposal since they aim to introduce additional provisions on genetically modified additives .
the commission is of the view that it is premature to amend the rules currently laid down by directive 70 / 524 on genetically modified additives at this stage .
instead it is appropriate to await developments in relation to the common position on the amendment to directive 90 / 220 , which is currently in second reading in parliament .
i can also assure parliament that i will ensure that the pertinent provisions of directive 90 / 220 are included in the proposal for a recasting of directive 70 / 524 that the commission has proposed in the white paper on food safety to present to parliament before july 2001 .
amendments nos 4 and 5 are also unacceptable because they give undue preference to copy products by granting them authorisation to be placed into circulation even before an application for authorisation has been submitted .
i can only ask you again to bear in mind the technical nature of the commission proposal and to wait for the substantive proposal for a new directive on additives in feedingstuffs to address wider issues .
first of all , this matter has been in the pipeline since 1993 , so it has not really been sprung on any other commodity producers .
as an overall comment to the suggested amendments here , particularly in relation to the legal base issue , it would be inappropriate , in my opinion , to change the legal base to article 152 in these circumstances , as it would be very likely to fall foul of the objective criteria that have been laid down by the court .
directive 70 / 524 foresees the issue of labelling in the genetic modification of additives .
commissioner byrne , it appears that you want to engage in a test of strength with parliament .
i would also say in relation to the questions surrounding labelling that this is a complex issue .
i would assure mr graefe zu baringdorf that it is by no means my intention or wish to have any clash or test of strength with parliament on this issue .
it is my intention , as it has always been , to work in cooperation with parliament , to ensure that the results we achieve are the very best results .
the best way of dealing with this issue is through the draft legislation before parliament at the moment , as well as the legislation in the pipeline , rather than in this technical document and in circumstances where the questions that are set out and to be debated in directive 90 / 220 may not be fully taken into account .
all of these matters will be addressed in that legislation .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
i am therefore in complete agreement with the commission ' s proposal on scrapie .
i should , however , like to add that it only makes sense if we ensure that the new tse regulation allows a reasonable symbiosis between consumer protection and practicable suggestions .
we therefore need to take consistent account of six or seven points in the coming debate on the tse proposal , and that of course includes scrapie .
when we discuss the tse regulation , commissioner , we must also clarify that we shortly intend to discuss separate proposals under article 152 as the corresponding legal base for products excluded from this regulation , such as cosmetics , medicinal products or animal feed .
i would be grateful , commissioner , if you would take these passing comments on board in the report on scrapie and in the general report on the fight against tses and bear in mind that we shall be calling you to account on these points .
my task as draftsman of the opinion of the environment committee is a very simple one .
i agree with the rapporteur and am able to say that the environment committee has asked the committee on agriculture and rural development to agree to the commission proposal .
i have yet to submit my report on tses to the house .
finally , just one more brief comment , mr byrne .
we have a new commission .
the european parliament has already taken a clear stand on bse and i think that we should do likewise on all epidemics in animals .
and i should point out that , for the first time in history , a case of scrapie was detected in austria about four weeks ago .
i therefore welcome the commission ' s initiative to create a new legal base for combating scrapie .
there is no doubt that mr boge and the rapporteur for the committee on the environment are now tremendous experts in this field .
it is very good that they are continuing to monitor this issue on behalf of parliament because it is extremely important .
it is quite clear that the incidence of scrapie in sheep has been a contributing factor to the overall problem .
i do not want to point the finger at any particular country , but many countries are now facing similar problems to those we have had in the united kingdom .
if we are not able to achieve that then we will have tremendous trouble in the future .
considerable progress has been made on our proposal for a european parliament and council regulation under article 152 of the treaty on the prevention and control of tses .
i am here today to listen to your opinions on the first step in this process of establishing a truly comprehensive community system for the control of these diseases .
i have proposed in the proposal at hand to delete all currently existing community rules on scrapie in sheep and goats and to transpose them to the framework proposal for a regulation .
i look forward to receipt of that document , which will be taken into account in all further considerations in relation to this issue .
finally , i would say this in relation to the observation about including legislation in annexes and the observation that we must achieve an effective balance between parliament having a full say and yet at the same time our having speedy resolutions , speedy legislation and speedy amendments to existing legislation .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
we will either be able to restore water quality to suit the planet ' s ecosystem or we will experience a whole range of adverse events which will threaten the development of certain regions , the living conditions of the inhabitants of other regions and even , more fundamentally , the global balance .
yet we also know that the deterioration of the oceans will significantly destabilise whole areas of our planet .
in this it said that in a few years ' time we must have stopped dumping pollution and halted the increase of pollution and we must have reached a near zero level of toxic and dangerous substances .
the european union ' s water policy is not starting from zero .
however , at first reading this house insisted that the current directive should not only be compatible with the commitments made , like ospar , but should allow us to reverse the course of affairs .
for despite these directives and frequent declarations about the effort which must be made in terms of water protection , when we look at the state of the environment in europe we can see that the objectives have not been achieved .
in many cases the situation has deteriorated and we therefore cannot settle for just rationalisation of the texts .
it is also clear that if we do nothing , our agriculture will continue to develop in a very unbalanced manner .
we have been working on this subject for ten years and a comprehensive approach was only made possible as the result of a hearing arranged and held by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy in 1994 .
we reduced the 243 proposed amendments in the environment committee to 77 , but another 30 have been added .
our line is to work towards realistic objectives and practicable solutions .
in this sense , the proposed amendments tabled by me and other members on behalf of the group represent an improvement on the demands set out in the common position .
i should like to stress quite particularly here that we have already made considerable progress under current national and european water protection laws , however imperfect they are and however little they are complied with in the member states .
the framework directive on water is a necessary initiative .
nevertheless , given that the idea of solidarity is central to the process of european construction , this directive must take into account the fact that water resources should be seen as a factor in social cohesion .
however , in spain and the other southern countries , which have an unusual climate , the management of water resources require political action in order to rationalise their use and other cooperative measures .
therefore , we believe that this framework directive should advocate a use of water which allows us to overcome territorial imbalances and , to this end , i ask that you support amendment no 95 , which has been presented by our group .
with regard to one of the most controversial points of our debate , the application of tariffs , the spanish socialists have been arguing , in accordance with the principle that the polluter should pay , that the directive should propose policies on accessible prices for all levels of consumption .
we want to build a europe with a sustainable and healthy environment .
however , an environmental europe cannot , in any circumstances , be built at different speeds , but must be built from a point of view of solidarity .
mr president , the ecological disaster in the danube reminds us of how closely linked all the countries of europe are and how important water is to us all .
it is important for us to remember that this is a framework .
it is easy for individual countries , for individual sectors of industry , to escape the effects which have been painted to us in recent days .
there are many opportunities to hide .
the reality is that the details of this legislation will be set out in daughter directives in months and years to come .
the principle also concerns water charging .
the common position has weakened the stand taken by parliament at first reading .
we have seen vote after vote lost .
our attempt to improve the environment of europe has failed .
the unanimity principle was at the root of this debacle .
some seven years ago , it still looked like the european water policy was going to be sacrificed on the altar of subsidiarity .
this is unusual , but most of these amendments are desperately needed to plug the holes .
the chemical industry and , unfortunately , the european commission and the council of ministers too want to draft a separate risk analysis for each dangerous substance .
this is very time-consuming , and , more importantly , there is no acceptable level of pollution for dangerous chemical substances .
this is why it is so important that the european parliament declares itself openly in favour of the ospar objective of close-to-zero by the year 2020 .
the chemical industry and society as a whole have to learn to replace these dangerous chemical substances by harmless substitutes , and if this is impossible , to apply them in closed systems .
the council 's common position is totally inadequate in a number of areas .
we therefore support the proposal to reduce the time allotted for implementing different parts of the directive .
however , some people in our political group think otherwise .
the recent disaster on the danube serves as a reminder that our rivers are the lifelines of our planet and that pollution does not respect borders .
we have therefore tabled amendments to highlight the importance of the special relationship between agriculture and water , given that water is an essential factor in the occupation and development of the land .
agricultural needs are clearly much greater in the south and this specific point must be taken into account in the framework directive .
however , we are in europe experiencing droughts and desertification in certain regions and also floods , which the directive underlines .
we need this framework directive as an essential element of a sustainable development policy which must make the various uses of water compatible with each other .
yet we also need to integrate the protection and conservation of biodiversity into this new management of water .
the committee on the environment ' s present proposal to reduce discharges to close-to-zero is , in my view , to be welcomed and worthy of emulation .
we need to rethink and recognise that water is our most important asset and that our responsibility towards it goes far beyond the present generation .
mr president , it must be some six years ago now that mr karl-heinz florenz , assisted by mrs ursula schleicher , put in a request and managed to overhaul the water policy in its entirety .
the decision-making process concerning this framework directive on water has reached a crucial stage .
the topic has been brought under the codecision procedure and as a result , we have been able to draft important , more stringent legislation as early on as at first reading .
a very important component , to wit , one third of our drinking water , is extracted from surface water in the netherlands .
the netherlands is located downstream , in a delta , which means that the quality of the surface water which heads our way is of key importance .
everyone should have clean water at their disposal but the availability and good quality of water is not so self-evident , as many have experienced in southern europe and are experiencing now in the danube countries too .
water is often a source of conflict between countries and peoples .
too little operational capacity upstream or , in fact , excessive use , can cause problems downstream .
the problem of water is becoming increasingly topical .
in march , the second world water forum will be held in the hague .
this vision must translate into regional action plans for sustainable water management and water control .
the european parliament must now opt for a sustainable water policy as a starting point and remain realistic at the same time .
the common position is not ambitious enough .
the ospar objectives are now being drawn up .
a list has been compiled , containing 400 substances which produce clear risks for the environment .
quality has a price , but pollution could well have a much higher price tag in future .
mr president , commissioner , my compliments to mrs lienemann on her excellent work on the water directive .
ladies and gentlemen , the proposal for a directive does indeed , as many speakers have already said , represent an historic chance to simplify and improve the jumble of piecemeal eu regulations and directives and achieve a high level of environmental protection in europe .
however , i have the impression that the policy in the water framework directive is geared towards deregulation and renationalisation .
we know that the commission proposal does not go far enough ; unfortunately this also applies to the proposal by the committee on the environment .
but i think that this is exactly what we have to make up for here in parliament , in order to demonstrate that we will not allow the credibility of our policy to be lost or compromised .
mr president , in the small amount of time allotted to me , i would like to welcome the mrs lienemann ' s report and remind the house of three principles , to which all other principles must be subordinate , which are clearly expressed in the rapporteur ' s amendments : water is not a commercial product , but the property of all the peoples of the union ; the ultimate objective is to eliminate all pollutants in surface water and groundwater , and to inform the public so that it can participate in the recuperation of water and not use water excessively given that it is such a precious commodity .
the situation in the north is different from that in the south , and different from the situation in those countries which have the problem of desert areas .
however , there are some amendments which attempt to help the countries of the south , specifically amendment no 43 which , with regard to the recuperation of costs , also indicates that member states must take into account the social and environmental conditions of the countries when it comes to decision making .
we cannot allow our european water to be polluted , mr president , and we must produce a directive which will strengthen the political will of governments to preserve the resource of water , which is so precious to all of us .
as an irish member of the european parliament , coming from a country which has large reserves of rich water , i support the vast majority of the proposals included in this directive .
however , i would now like to look at the areas of difference between parliament 's committee on the environment and the council .
the latter has already brought forward its common position on this matter .
according to the council the objective of achieving good surface water status should be secured no later than 16 years after the directive enters into force , whereas parliament 's committee on the environment would like to see this deadline shortened to ten years .
i see no reason why european union member states cannot work to implement the key provisions of this directive in as short a time as possible .
i now turn to the amendments to be tabled before parliament tomorrow concerning the principle of the recovery of cost of water usage .
the council in its common position states that the european union governments must take account of the principle of recovery of the cost of water usage .
no specific target date for the implementation of this principle was included in the common position .
amendment no 43 seeks to ensure that by the year 2010 water pricing policies in europe must provide adequate incentives to use water efficiently .
this is politically impractical from an irish perspective , as indeed it would be from the perspective of other eu member states such as portugal , greece and spain .
in this connection , i would ask parliament to support amendment no 108 , in which the words " water pollution caused by individual pollutants " are replaced by " prevention of water pollution through the continuous reduction in discharges " .
the eu ' s ministers for the environment must therefore stand by their affiliation to the ospar convention , which now already defines what is hazardous to the environment .
the treaty of amsterdam reiterates the priority criteria for prevention , for the implementation of the ' polluter pays ' principle and for sustainable development through an environmental impact assessment .
clearly , the importance of recognising the economic value of ecological factors in setting prices and making operators accountable through the adoption of incentives for non-polluting systems , seems unquestionable in the light of events that characterise the relationship between economic development and the protection of our environmental heritage , particularly our water resources .
this situation is loudly echoed in many sectors of the economy , and especially in the agricultural sector .
the obligation to develop and consolidate a strategy for integration derives from this notion , with the aim of keeping the management of water resources at the heart of the sustainable economic production model in the light of current conditions .
we must not , with this in mind , pursue a strategy of separating the objective of preventing a deterioration in the state of surface water and groundwater from the objectives of protecting , improving and restoring their quality , as this would create a superfluous hierarchy of priorities detrimental to the overall functioning of interventions and specific measures that target a combined approach and the use of the best available techniques .
finally , we need to set up a system which prepares an objective list of potentially dangerous substances , using the increased information available on their chemical , physical and biological properties , in such a way as to create an integrated model for intervention at a range of strategic levels in order to protect our water heritage , which is fundamental to us all .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , if we are to take the principle of sustainability enshrined in the treaty of amsterdam seriously , then our long-term objective must be to achieve zero inputs in our water because we need to safeguard water so that future generations do not pay the price for our water consumption .
i am firmly convinced that we need a strict , tight timetable in order to work towards our long-term objective .
may i take this opportunity to remind you that previous resolutions concerning the nitrates directive have still not been implemented in all member states , in spite of the fact that there is a common eu resolution .
adopting this report would have serious consequences for agriculture in the eu if concentrations of , for example , phosphorus and nitrogen could not exceed the background values for these substances in the aquatic environment and if a limit of zero were to be established for pesticides in the aquatic environment .
as a result , agricultural production would move to other countries outside the eu , with consequent high socio-economic and employment costs .
the capitalist world too sends out its pawns in order to gain maximum control over water reservoirs .
what was remarkable about this dossier was the enormous pressure from the council of ministers .
they have opted for the weak common position in favour of our parliament ' s more drastic positioning .
we must also now explain what we are doing together and what we want to do together in the future , particularly with the countries which will be joining us .
we hope to conduct this initiative in cooperation with the member states and in conjunction with the european parliament .
the commission will propose that the member states become involved in this exercise either as part of ad hoc cooperation or a more structured partnership .
we will launch this dialogue on 8 march in brussels in the presence of 700 young commission stagiaires .
mr president , i think i also speak for the committee on constitutional affairs that i chair , in expressing my appreciation of this commission initiative .
moreover , this initiative is consistent with recommendations made by parliament itself in its resolution of 18 november .
mr president , commissioner , it is music to my ears to hear you use the word ' citizen ' so often .
as you know , there are problems which not only concern this house but also the european officials who are also european citizens .
mr dupuis , first of all i attach a great deal of importance in my public life to the word ' citizen ' .
it is one of the most wonderful words in a democracy and must be used .
the story went that an official in the commission had apparently told an austrian businessman that , because he was austrian , he would possibly be excluded from being able to participate in a scientific development project together with businesses in other countries , including denmark .
generally speaking , there are other lessons to be learnt from what is happening in austria .
i firmly believe in the democratic force and value of debate , particularly to fight against demagoguery .
commissioner barnier , you laid great stress in your statement on the importance of dialogue with the citizens of europe .
mr beazley , my answer is clearly yes but that is no surprise .
mr president , firstly i would like to compliment the commission on its approach .
my second question is of a critical nature .
the european commission has just issued a proposal on transparency .
if i compare this with the transparency proposal which pertains to legislation in the netherlands , then the european model is vastly overshadowed by the dutch model , and that proposal has met with a lot of criticism in the netherlands .
the group of representatives is currently meeting in brussels and i will try to join them as soon as possible .
the documents will in the main be open working documents .
however , i believe we must also make the effort to get as close as possible to the people .
i would like to invite him to my own region of yorkshire , a major european region that is a full participant in the single european market and a major recipient of european structural funding .
in some member states it is not just a matter of providing information to a public that is not as well informed as it might be .
i forgot to mention my intention to go before the national parliaments , as i have already done , not only by meeting their representatives here but by going to see them in situ .
with regard to the dialogue with our citizens , it is not a question of propaganda or marketing , nor even of communication .
i hope that in his pursuit of dialogue around the regions of europe , commissioner barnier will expand upon that thought and learn from what he hears .
in your country , mr bonde , like everywhere else , i believe people are keen for the internal market to work properly under the fairest conditions of competition and movement of goods and people .
we are proposing that decisions on certain policies or measures involving taxation or social protection and social security should be taken by qualified majority voting when there is a direct link with the proper operation of the internal market .
we will therefore conduct this dialogue with the towns and regions .
mr berthu , the helsinki mandate is clear and we are working within this .
in the context of the humanitarian aid provided by the union and the efforts of its envoy bernard kouchner , will the commission say what measures have been taken to safeguard the women of kosovo 's right to motherhood and the health of pregnant women , women in childbirth and babies ?
mr president , the commission is conscious of the very difficult situation concerning health and health facilities in kosovo , not just for pregnant women but across the board .
however , the situation is hardly better for other parts of the population .
however , efforts are increasingly oriented towards the establishment of a self-sufficient healthcare system in the province .
unmik has already taken a significant role in this field .
secondly , under the reconstruction programme , urgent intervention at the hospital in mitrovica has already been initiated with a eur 1 million rehabilitation programme .
however , the commission is maintaining its efforts with the support of unmik for this project .
under the european community ' s damage assessment , estimated costs of the reconstruction of healthcare facilities and provision of equipment to dispensaries and health houses amount to eur 4 million .
as a result of that , a parallel health care system was put in place through the mother teresa society .
those were cases in which women who during the hostilities , or before the hostilities , tragically killed their own children .
commissioner , i would like to thank you for your response to the member ' s first question and the supplementary question .
however , i still have some contacts in kosovo who have informed me that food packages which are distributed by echo , among others , are often of inferior quality .
my second question pertains to the reconstruction of the hospital in mitrovica .
the particular difficulties in mitrovica - for example , it is not just a question of albanian patients having difficulty getting to hospital , albanian staff have had difficulty working there - are particularly acute problems .
question no 37 by ( h-0029 / 00 ) : subject : turkish blockade of armenia given that the european union is actively promoting social , economic and political relations with armenia through the partnership and cooperation agreement signed on 12 october 1999 , what steps is the commission taking to persuade the turkish government to lift the economic blockade of armenia ?
the commission supports any effort aimed at the settlement of the disputes between turkey and armenia and regrets that there has not yet been any normalisation of relations between these two countries .
in the present political circumstances it is however unrealistic to imagine that the border between armenia and turkey , as well as the one between armenia and azerbaijan could be opened without settlement of the nagorno-karabakh conflict .
my question therefore is this : will the commission make this one of the conditions in order to improve future discussions ?
the key issue is to support the efforts of the osce minsk group to find a settlement to the nagorno-karabakh conflict and we stand ready to help in any way we can .
let me relate my answer specifically to the question of turkish accession to the european union .
the situation of turkey 's relations with its neighbours will , as the honourable member asks , be closely examined in the framework of the pre-accession strategy .
question no 38 by ( h-0040 / 00 ) : subject : implications for human rights of the construction of the ilisu dam in turkey given that turkey has recently been granted applicant country status , what is the commission 's view of the implications for human rights of the construction of the ilisu dam , given the massive displacement of the kurdish and the other people of the region that will result ?
the commission has no information regarding the impact of the construction of the ilisu dam on the population of the region .
we will , however , consider raising the matter with the turkish authorities , together with other issues concerning regional development policies in the framework of the new pre-accession strategy for turkey .
we thank mr patten for having replied on behalf of the commission .
as i have said before in this house , the commission is convinced that the convention must be able , if necessary , to adapt and develop these rights in view of current circumstances , particularly technological and social changes .
however , given the mandate and the final objective of the text to be submitted to the heads of state and government , this power must be exercised with caution and on a case-by-case basis .
it may also be envisaged that some economic and social rights could be guaranteed only for citizens of the european union and third-country nationals meeting certain conditions .
it is not possible at this initial stage of the process of drawing up the charter to prejudge its content in more detail .
as i have also said before to this house , the commission is favourable to inserting the charter in the eu treaty .
however , we are fully aware that the final decision on this matter will fall to the heads of state and government .
in its opinion on the holding of an intergovernmental conference to amend the treaties , the commission noted that the european council must decide during the year 2000 on the inclusion of certain items on the igc agenda , in particular the european charter of fundamental rights .
commissioner , it is quite significant that at the beginning of this new century people in europe , men and women , are being called upon to redefine their rights and obligations .
i listened to your general guidelines and i would like to ask you what is the position of children , as entities in their own right , in the commission ' s plans for the new model of society in the twenty-first century .
mr president , mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou , in my opinion , and as mr prodi said this morning , the drawing up of the charter is an exercise with great political significance .
i understand your concern about the rights of children .
many elements of our work , and particularly of my work as commissioner for justice and home affairs , involve protecting the rights of children .
this is an area in which the principle of subsidiarity applies fully .
each member state is principally responsible for defining its responsibilities towards children .
as for the eu ' s responsibility , the rights of children must be recognised in the charter according to the areas in which the union can give added value to the promotion of the social and economic situation and even the citizenship , in its broadest sense , of children .
mr president , i have had the privilege of hearing the commissioner a number of times on this issue and i very much agree with his approach .
it is very important that the people feel engaged in this process .
it is the policy of the commission to promote an open and wide debate on the charter of fundamental rights , not only with non-governmental organisations but also with the citizens in a project as far-reaching as the charter is .
question no 40 by ( h-0095 / 00 ) : subject : articles 6.1 , 7.1 and 7.2 of the treaty on european union article 6.1 of the treaty states that the union is based on principles of liberty , democracy , respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
it is clear from statements over the past years that jorg haider and the freedom party do not respect human rights and fundamental freedoms with respect to third country nationals and minority groups living in austria .
therefore , will the commission state when they intend to propose under article 7.1 that there is ' the existence of a serious and persistent breach by a member state of the principles mentioned in article 6.1 . ' , and urge the council acting by qualified majority to suspend certain rights deriving from the application of this treaty to austria including the voting rights of the representative of austria in the council ?
the commission confirmed then , as it does today , that it shares the concerns underlying the portuguese presidency ' s statement of 1 february 2000 .
secondly , the commission reiterated and reiterates again its commitment to continue fulfilling its duty as guardian of the treaties , specifically with regard to articles 6 and 7 of the treaty on european union .
i think that it is obvious that conditions have not been met which would apply to the current situation in austria .
as a matter of fact i think that i am right in saying that we all hope that these conditions of a serious and persistent breach of human rights and of democracy are never fulfilled , either in austria or in any other member state .
i would like to assure you of my personal commitment and of that of the commission , as stated once again by president prodi this morning , to doing everything to ensure that we do not have to apply the mechanism stated in article 7 .
on the other hand , the new austrian government ' s programme reaffirms its commitment to defend democracy and human rights .
i am referring to the position the austrian government will adopt at the council with regard to the commission ' s proposals for the establishment of an action programme to combat discrimination and for two directives .
these are significant texts , adopted in accordance with article 13 of the treaty , which gave the community jurisdiction to fight discrimination on the grounds of race , ethnic origin , sex etc .
therefore i am fully confident that the commission will be able to follow very closely the evolution of the situation in austria , as in any other member state .
if any concrete case of persistent violation of human rights perpetrated by the government of one member state occurs , we will be entirely capable to react and to act accordingly .
i also rely not only on the cooperation of the members of the european parliament , but also on the cooperation of non-governmental organisations , which have always made an important contribution to the anti-discrimination policy of the commission .
the protection of ethnic minorities and of minorities that speak a specific language is an element of the programme and of the two directives that the commission has put before the council .
i sincerely hope that all member states will take the opportunity of this action plan and these two directives that the commission has presented to the council to reiterate in clear and concrete terms their approval for the action plan and for the directives and their commitment to fight against discrimination , racism and xenophobia wherever it might occur .
the environmental problems stemming from the incineration and the dumping of such waste are mainly attributable to the presence of hazardous substances ( lead , cadmium , mercury , hexavalent chrome , pvc and halogenated flame retarders ) .
consequently , the commission decided to prepare a proposal on the subject and , since 1997 , has been involved in discussions with the parties concerned .
i should just like to add that my intention is that the commission should be able to present a proposal on the dumping of electrical and electronic waste before easter .
my question specifically concerned the reaction of the us government to the text of the preliminary draft .
i note in particular that when you talk about the international law with which the text would not be compatible , you are referring in fact to the rules of the world trade organisation .
it is important for me to have a chance to answer it .
it is clear that in a process such as this , where we are discussing the disposal of a considerable stream of both electrical and electronic waste in europe , there is an on-going dialogue between the different parties concerned .
however , i do want to listen to all the points of view .
question no 42 by ( h-0026 / 00 ) : subject : gender and environment practically all the contributors involved in the rio and kyoto processes - individual organisations , civic action groups , governments , the world bank , the un and relief organisations - believed that women should take a greater part in decision-making on the environment .
through the current programme , which covers the period 1997 to 2000 , we are endeavouring to encourage a workplace culture in which the value of both men and women is integrated and where gender-specific needs are taken into consideration .
the new commission 's own objective is to double the number of women managers before the end of its term of office .
the same line is being pursued with particular vigour in the directorate-general for the environment , where nearly 60 per cent of directors and 20 per cent of unit heads are women .
our policy is to encourage the recruitment of women to administrative posts in order to create a reserve of suitable candidates for future promotion to managerial positions .
with respect to the general principle of incorporating a perspective of equality , as you know , this principle is included in the treaty of amsterdam .
article 3 of the treaty states that , in all the activities referred to in this article , the community shall aim to eliminate inequalities , and to promote equality , between women and men .
question no 43 by ( h-0045 / 00 ) : subject : the boyne estuary and the drogheda port company the boyne estuary is designated a special protection area ( spa ) under the wild birds directive and is under consideration for designation as a special area of conservation under the habitats directive , as it is an area of international importance .
the boyne estuary is designated a special protection area under the wild birds directive .
that means that any development that takes place in or near the boyne estuary and that is likely to affect the special protection area must take account of the protection criteria for the area laid down in the community ' s habitats directive .
even the area designated by the commissioners as a special protection area has been destroyed .
the first legal challenge followed the start of work on the port of development in early autumn 1999 without the compensatory habitat improvements being in place .
as meps are well aware , in the course of last year a joint text was issued by our predecessors in the commission , ritt bjerregaard and monika wulf-mathies concerning the relationship between the structural funds , money from the structural funds and protection under the habitats and birds directives .
the involvement of regional and local authorities in the community ' s action is , as you know , one of the essential elements of the new post-berlin structural funds regulation .
as for the monitoring and management of these programmes , i have not yet received the national provisions proposed by the greek government pursuant to article 8 of the new regulation .
in the current negotiations on this third community support framework , i have asked for the provisions on the partnership principle to be fully respected , with regard to both regional and local authorities and to non-governmental organisations and associations .
having said that , i thought your question related more to the partnership issue .
however , turning to the substance , i should like to ask the commissioner to bear in mind the following : that for all national and regional programmes , greece is regarded as a region which expresses itself - at the level of its partnership relations with the european union - via its central administration , its central government .
mr theonas , i can only repeat what i said to mr alavanos .
on mrs isler beguin ' s first point i must remind her that the improvement of the scientific basis and technical capacities of the regions in order to increase their competitiveness was one of the community ' s priorities during the previous programming period .
the support allocated by the structural funds for technological cohesion , or research and technical developments , within the community support frameworks for that period is estimated at approximately eur 7.5 billion .
with regard to your specific concern , i can say that , as in the previous period , the commission does not intend to directly finance through the structural funds research and technical development in the area of nuclear fusion or fission .
consequently , even though this is not a community priority , a member state can decide to finance research and development projects in the civil nuclear technology area , provided that these projects contribute to regional development .
i was able to verify this , for example , during a visit i made to the azores in portugal a few days ago with regard to a natural source of renewable energy .
as a result , the commission services are not systematically informed of all projects selected .
as has happened in the past , the member states are required to provide answers when the commission questions them or asks for clarification .
mr maccormick , the commission has no plans to amend the rules concerning additionality which were stipulated , for the 2000-2006 period , in article 11 of the general regulation on the funds .
provided that the member state does not reduce all its own expenditure , the structural funds are added to the national expenditure and the principle of additionality is therefore respected .
as for the budgetary provisions within the member states , between central government and internal autonomous regions or countries , these are determined according to exclusively national considerations and are therefore not affected by additionality within the meaning defined in the rules .
we are left with article 11 ( 1 ) which says that the appropriations of the funds may not replace public or other equivalent structural expenditure by the member states .
if mr maccormick would be satisfied with my partial agreement with his reasoning , i will give him a full answer in writing by restating the legal bases of both article 11 in general and article 11 ( 1 ) in particular .
i also know the particular problems in your constituency in scotland where disputes and discussions are occurring on these subjects .
i would point out to the commissioner that mr aznar is the president of the spanish government .
as i did not have an answer , i wrote to the minister for economic and financial affairs on 14 december .
i do believe it is important to say that andalusia is going to receive 50 % more within the community support framework and that spain also holds the record for the use of the structural funds , which means that the distribution is based strictly on the implementing regulations and is decentralised by means of the regional development plans and different community support frameworks .
having said this , we must accept that elections are always taking place in the countries of the european union .
questions nos 48 to 50 will be replied to in writing .
question no 51 by ( h-0049 / 00 ) : subject : new premises for the ohim at present the office for harmonisation in the internal market ( ohim ) is still operating from the same temporary premises , even though its new building was opened in june 1999 .
the honourable member asked a question on this topic in november 1999 and i would like to refer him to the answer given at the time .
furthermore , i have asked the president of the office for harmonisation in the internal market , that is to say the office in alicante , to comment further on this new question and i can , as a result , inform the honourable member as follows , on behalf of the office : the office is not yet ready to move into the new building .
if you had been there , i am sure you would have been ashamed .
the opening of a building which was not finished , in the middle of an election campaign , which eight months after the opening can still not be occupied , makes the spanish government look ridiculous .
i am not worried that the spanish government should look foolish , because at the end of the day it was their responsibility , but it does worry me that the commission should look foolish by endorsing , through its presence , this absurd event .
what i can say is that i hope that this building will now be occupied as soon as possible .
i hope that this building will then be occupied .
we do not intend to go in the direction of what is termed in french un proces d 'intention .
as far as i am concerned , all expenditure is real .
as the author is not present , question no 52 lapses .
as they deal with the same subject , questions nos 53 and 54 will be taken together .
question no 54 by ( h-0117 / 00 ) : subject : alcohol monopoly and the internal market what action does the commission intend to take in order to prevent the extension of the state alcohol monopoly apparently being planned by sweden , and the associated import restrictions , and to ensure that the rules of the single market are applied ?
this derogation from the principle of the free movement of goods lapses on 30 june of this year .
sweden now wants to extend this measure by another five years , as this would be necessary to protect public health .
sweden has now had sufficient time - since its accession to the union - to adapt its policies to a situation where such import restrictions do not exist .
this certainly does not mean that i do not share the concern in sweden surrounding the possible health problems which can be caused by alcohol abuse .
my second question concerns the whole policy on alcohol .
if we had considered these aspects in their overall context , then it might have been easier to carry on a dialogue with sweden .
these countries are in the process of taking measures in preparation of free access of alcoholic products in the year 2003 .
however , in the case of sweden , the situation is different .
but in that case , not only sweden , but all eu countries , should then be subject to a total ban on alcohol .
i gather that mr posselt has hinted at the fiscal aspects of this matter .
i also happen to know that the high tax on alcohol products in sweden goes back to the year 1638 and that since then , the sale of alcohol products has accounted for a significant portion of the state ' s tax revenue .
the commission has to take a decision on whether the matter is closed or whether it should refer it to the european court of justice .
my reply is perhaps not satisfactory right now , but i would like to assure the honourable member that the commission will take that decision within a matter of weeks .
it will no doubt engage in a discussion both with parliament and the council on this state of affairs , which indicates that there are quite a lot of differences in excise rates between member states .
for example - i believe the honourable member referred to this - no excise taxes are applied on wine in france , whereas they are applied in the united kingdom .
the question specifically refers to the relation between excise taxes and the alcohol content of the goods subject to excise tax .
although this leads to a disparity in excise taxes between sweden and other member states of the union - and that by itself increases cross-border smuggling of alcoholic products - it is a legitimate instrument to decrease the consumption of alcohol .
may i assure mr maccormick and other members of this parliament that the present situation where excise taxes differ between member states is indeed something which is not conducive to the proper functioning of the internal market .
if one looks at petrol , for example , one sees that excise taxes in germany are different from those of holland , and consequently dutch motorists cross the border and fill up their tanks in germany .
this is an area of unanimity , as mr maccormick knows , and unless all member states agree on the equalisation of excise taxes , it will not happen .
once again , towards the end of this year , the commission will forward a report on the state of affairs on excise taxes , and i am obviously available for any discussion with parliament on that report .
since the time allotted to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions 55 to 114 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , the situation regarding fresh water in europe is not as serious as in other parts of the world but , in general terms , it is a fact that the demand for water has continued to grow and its quality has continued to decrease .
to this we must add the water pollution problems which afflict the potential new member states in the east .
i believe that no country , no government and , of course , no member of this parliament can fail to recognise the need for this directive in order to end the current fragmentation of water policy and facilitate the implementation of a programme of specific measures for each river basin .
the development of this directive has been difficult and complex , involving diverse interests and divided opinions .
however , it is almost impossible to understand and correctly assess all the different situations and expectations .
therefore , it seems essential to us that the directive complies , in practice , with the obligation laid down in article 164 of the treaty on the need for community legislation to take account of the diversity of its regions .
in accordance with this principle , the spanish delegation of the european people ' s party will oppose amendments nos 4 ( recital 21 ) , 13 and 49 ( article 11 ( d ) ) , since they imply a serious limitation in an area of management exclusive to the member states , that is , the regulation of water resources .
it would be very difficult for the community to determine the conditions for the regulation of water in the different regions , given the different internal balances which are always in play and which require profound knowledge of the different areas and the relevant interests .
we must clearly set water prices which promote its efficient use but which , at the same time , safeguard the competitivity of the producing industries in the less-favoured regions and do not hinder their legitimate development .
i would lastly like to refer to the amendments on dangerous substances which establish that we must achieve a zero , or close to zero , degree of pollution .
i hope that , once again , this house will vote with a sense of reality and respect for the principle of subsidiarity , seeking a suitable balance between the environmental objectives and economic and social considerations , the three essential elements in achieving the sustainable development which we all wish to see so much .
mr president , commissioner , this is a very important directive .
but the key issue is , in my opinion , planning how to restore water tables , the natural flow of rivers and the natural content of lakes , which must be carried out within the ten year period we have in mind .
mr president , here we have what is basically a good measure .
the prevention of pollution and water deterioration has to be right as well as the ability to manage water in times of drought and flood .
the concept of continuing reduction as in amendment no 58 is much better .
it is also a point of departure because a new framework of reference has been created , into which future european legislation on water will converge and flow .
the rapporteur ' s proposal is one which , on the whole , i would wish to support but i would like to express some praise for it and then two concerns .
my first concern is about the timetable laid down in the directive : it may prove to be a straitjacket although i think that it also represents a powerful challenge .
paying a fair price for water may also result in injustices .
the recent catastrophe on the danube has illustrated , as in a nightmare , that a long-term policy and strategy for the ecological protection of our water , however much it may cost , is not a luxury of the rich but a necessity for civilisation .
mr president , first of all , we want to denounce the fathomless hypocrisy of those who claim to be concerned about the environment and water , but whose criminal activities such as the attacks against yugoslavia , aside from leaving thousands dead and wounded , have also brought about huge ecological disasters for water resources too , making them not only unusable but even extremely hazardous .
that is not only because it is about guaranteeing sufficient water resources but also because it is , to a large degree , about safeguarding water resources against pollution so that we can also have clean drinking water in the future .
we are all entitled to clean drinking water .
i also think it is important that we should put pressure on the member states to devise the necessary action programmes more quickly than is proposed in the common position .
in this regard , too , i think that the 2010 deadline is appropriate .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur for some excellent work in drafting this important directive .
the event proves that in some countries applying for eu membership the environmental norms and environmental thinking are still light years behind the eu .
in finland surface waters are very clean .
the production of so-called artificial groundwater is an ecological means of filtering a clean supply of fresh surface water through to the groundwater reserves .
the directive must not be allowed to endanger this work .
deviating from the council ' s common position , the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy is also attempting to restrict further the facilities for the transfer of water .
mr president , commissioner , water is a precious natural asset , a vital necessity , and it is our duty to protect it .
i think it essential to have a framework directive on water policy in the european union , which will be the basic legal instrument for improving the quality and proper management of water resources , and i congratulate the rapporteur on her attempt to address this thorny issue and take due account of all the points of view .
in recent years , climate change has compelled mediterranean countries to face serious problems of flooding or lack of rain .
we agree with the common position but we also accept several of the amendments tabled , whose aim is to improve it .
in spite of these remarks however , i believe our common objective of sustainable use of water resources can be maintained .
mr president , commissioner , the measures contained in this directive range from drafting water management plans , comprehensive information and hearing rights , and close cooperation between the member states , to combating water pollution caused by individual pollutants .
i am aware , and the previous speaker highlighted this , that there are states in the european union that have problems with water .
mr president , commissioner , we should be pleased that this directive has already reached second reading .
however , i must say that i am not over-pleased because i believe that this directive is not of great quality , it is going to be very difficult to implement and has many shortcomings .
in the same way , this damage and these tragedies which are happening , as in romania , are not the problem of the legislative , but of the executive and of the governments .
mr president , through the consolidation of existing directives this framework directive establishes the basic principle of a sustainable water policy in the european union .
it is a framework for the protection and management of our water - surface , ground , transitional and coastal - through the establishment of river basin districts at national and , in our case in ireland , cross-border level .
we have no difficulty with the " polluter pays " principle in relation to the recovery of costs on water usage at industrial , commercial and agricultural level .
meters could be viewed as a very important tool in water management by the new river basin districts , to help the elimination of water wastage and for the proper planning of future requirements .
water is a scarce and precious natural resource .
ideally , i would like amendment no 45 to fall tomorrow so that the common position on article 9 would hold on water charges .
that would allow for subsidiarity on a cost policy for water charges , with each member states drawing up its own scheme , so long as the principles of this directive on incentives for sustainable and efficient use of water are fully protected .
if amendment no 45 does not fall , i will have to move an oral amendment tomorrow to ensure that member states may grant exemptions to the provisions of this article in order to allow a basic level of water use for domestic purposes before contributions to the recovery of cost of water services .
all legislation must be enforceable and be based on the general principle of political acceptance .
i believe that access to clean drinking water without charge is a basic human right in the developed as well as the developing world .
mr president , commissioner , at this point in the debate i am going to insist on certain aspects which , from an agronomic point of view , and since i come from a southern country , i consider to be absolutely essential to this directive .
these include , for example , costs and transfers .
one of the most significant transfers - the tajo-segura transfer - which has been in use for many years , almost 30 years , has an allowance of 658 hm3 per year .
the largest volume transferred in one year has been 453 and the average volume over twenty years has been over 200 .
we cannot be prohibited from carrying out transfers when our economy and the development of our regions depend on it .
i will not tackle the issue of quality and the best available technologies , because i believe that we will return to a discussion of this directive .
take good note : in this diverse europe , which we are building in a spirit of mutual cooperation , we have to find diverse solutions , not single solutions .
i therefore appeal to the common sense of the commission , the council and this house so that , when voting , they do not impose uniformity on the different countries of europe in areas where subsidiarity is required .
many of them are based upon the very constructive , informal discussions which have taken place between parliament and the council in connection with the first reading .
the commission can approve 72 of the 108 amendments , either in their entirety , partially or in principle .
with a view to these forthcoming negotiations , i would therefore urge parliament to vote in favour of an ambitious position .
firstly , i should like to mention some of my most important arguments .
allow me now to comment on some of the areas in a little more detail .
i therefore welcome amendments nos 6 , 10 , 14 , 24 , 58 , 60 and 88 .
the commission cannot , on the other hand , approve amendment no 19 , in which hazardous substances are defined differently than in ospar .
the commission can also , in principle , approve amendment no 60 , according to which a timetable is required for implementing the commission ' s proposal to limit discharges of prioritised substances .
amendment no 59 introduces requirements to the effect that the list of prioritised substances should continually be reviewed .
the desire expressed in amendments nos 60 and 93 for a list of goals and a list of substances for which no adequate data is available cannot be approved .
i can wholeheartedly support the demand that the price of water should be set at a level which creates incentives to use water resources in a sustainable way .
i also support the demand for a suitable contribution from each sector to cover own costs .
i can therefore partly , and in principle , approve amendments nos 43-46 , together with amendment no 85 .
i therefore support the overall thrust of amendment no 105 , which is in line with the commission ' s original proposal .
we are aware of the fact that the price of water and water services is a complicated issue and that account must be taken not only of environmental goals but also of social and economic goals .
we intend shortly to issue a communication from the commission on precisely this question .
a period of ten years , as proposed in amendments nos 24 and 26 , among others , is , on the other hand , too short .
the proposal must also include more stringent criteria for establishing lesser environmental objectives and for extending deadlines in connection with heavily modified or artificial bodies of water .
this applies to amendments nos 6 , 24 , 25 , 27 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 , 78 , 80 , 102 and 104 .
to comply with the demands in amendments nos 27 and 29 , to the effect that the commission should approve every extension , would be going too far , and these cannot be approved .
another important area is protection of the groundwater .
the new definition in amendment no 72 is , however , too strict and cannot be applied for this purpose .
i would propose that amendment no 92 should be incorporated into a broader solution .
the good status which is required under this proposal ought to guarantee that the demand for surface water of good quality is fulfilled .
this part of amendment no 41 cannot , therefore , be approved .
this approach and its scope , which the commission can in principle approve , are defined by amendments nos 22 and 47 .
these parts of amendments nos 49 and 87 can , therefore , be approved .
the proposal already specifies that water must be abstracted in accordance with the ecological needs in the river basin district concerned .
these parts of amendments nos 49 and 87 cannot , therefore , be approved .
the commission approves amendment no 76 to the effect that radioactive substances are explicitly to be included in the proposal .
to summarise , the commission is able to approve 72 amendments , either in their entirety , partially or in principle .
the following amendments cannot be approved : 1 , 4 , 9 , 11 , 13 , 15 , 19 , 23 , 39 , 40 , 51 , 59 , 61 , 64 , 66 , 70 , 71 , 71 , 72 , 74 , 77 , 79 , 81 , 83 , 87 , 89 , 90 , 91 , 95 , 97 , 98 , 100 , 101 , 103 , 106 and 107 .
finally , i want to say that i welcome the efforts which parliament has made to try to solve the questions on which the council takes other views .
a number of obstacles remain , but i am convinced that , as the legislative work progresses , we shall achieve our common goal of creating a water policy we can be proud of .
i would like to hear the commissioner 's view on amendment no 45 .
thank you , mrs wallstrom .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 p.m .
rapporteur . ( fr ) mr president , we have already had the opportunity , at the first reading , to examine this report and i was given to believe in committee that there was a broad consensus within this house .
and so the debates taking place today focus on two major issues : firstly , comitology , an ongoing debate within this house , but parliament wished to implement policies settled rather by management committees or advisory committees which give the commission some flexibility and which do not give the council too much scope to obstruct and have their intergovernmental philosophy prevail over the community philosophy which we are here to stand up for within the european parliament .
let me point out that parliament is asking for 850 million ecus in appropriations , not a vast sum in the community budget , and that the current proposals are for 613 million ecus .
i would , however , like to point out that the council has plenty of time to formulate its ideas and that it is submitting its proposals to us only a few months before the fateful date .
as for us , we our bound by the terms of the texts : a maximum of four months .
i therefore hope , firstly , that our fellow members will support us in the conciliation - but votes on this area are always very much in agreement - but also that the council and the commission will manage to listen to us and that we shall each take a step towards the other .
it is better firstly because the framework proposal made life i more rigorous , more transparent and more rational .
thirdly , the fact that the common position has for the first time introduced upgrading and planning for coastal areas as one of life-environment ' s priorities is an extremely positive step .
in spite of all its virtues though , life iii ' s regulation fails in what is obviously the most important aspect of determining a financial instrument ' s impact , which is its budget .
by persisting with their proposal of eur 613 million as a reference amount for 2000 - 2004 , and by refusing to accept the european parliament ' s proposal of eur 850 million , the commission and the council are taking a decision which we do not feel is based on the same criteria of rationality and justice that they introduced , and rightly so , for other measures in life iii .
firstly , life is the only direct financial instrument which is designed to promote environmental policy within the european union .
we therefore feel it is crucial that as amendments nos 5 and 6 seek to establish as objectives which life-environment should achieve a plan for the sustainable management of ground water and surface water , as well as for reducing greenhouse gases , they should be adopted .
i cannot fathom this at all and expressly call upon all my fellow meps to support mrs lienemann ' s motion on raising the funding to eur 850 million .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , life is the european union ' s most important instrument and indeed its only financial instrument dedicated exclusively to the environment .
the common position stipulates a total appropriation of eur 613 million for the period 2000-2004 .
an investment in natural resources , of course , but also in employment , since it has been demonstrated that an active environmental policy generated new jobs , as shown particularly by the great success of life , a success with ngos , businesses , local authorities and third countries .
more than one third of the 8,500 requests received meet the required conditions and it has been possible to cofinance approximately 1,300 projects between 1992 and 1998 .
a success which parliament wishes and intends to see perpetuated , and this is why we also support amendment 14 outlining the fourth phase of the life project .
mr president , commissioner , i am probably going to repeat things my fellow members have said but i believe that , as far as the council is concerned , the thing is to repeat over and over what we think of life .
i shall therefore reiterate that , as the rapporteur has already said quite clearly , life is the only specific financial instrument for the implementation of the european union ' s policy on the environment .
this instrument is absolutely essential since it provides the impetus for truly innovative actions in favour of nature and the environment in europe , which are adopted and expanded upon by the member states .
this financial instrument is , furthermore , deliberately democratic since it is accessible to both governmental and non-governmental organisations .
through the associations , then , life is a facility that can be used by the european citizen directly , and for the benefit of actions in the interest of the community .
several million ngo members - millions , i say - recognise in life the union ' s determination to build up an ambitious policy in favour of our natural heritage .
life is , moreover , the fundamental instrument of the natura 2000 network in europe into which the member states have put a lot , pursuant to community directives on the habitats of rare and endangered fauna and flora and on migratory birds , and which makes it possible to set up the protection of sites of high biological value in our states .
this is a pity because everyone within this chamber knows that life is a financial instrument which is not sufficient to carry out the projects submitted by member states , a good many of which are turned down due to lack of funds .
let us not forget that , to date , life amounts to only eur 100 million per annum , i.e .
for the record , the budget for agriculture , which has a real impact on the environment , amounts , as we all know , to eur 37 billion .
the first sustainable development projects are unquestionably those .
i would also like to congratulate the services of the commission , since the evaluation , control and monitoring of the life programme provide a reasonable guarantee with regard to the selection and execution of projects .
of the eur 1 919 million requested , only eur 784 million have been granted .
now the financial statement shows only eur 613 million to cover more countries and competences .
parliament has proposed eur 850 million , but the document repeats the initial proposal of eur 613 million .
commissioner , we must be consistent .
the cost of maintaining the environment , which we all enjoy , must be met by all of us , and the life programme is the only financial instrument aimed exclusively at the environment and whose projects have generally been effective .
the funding of activities for the implementation , adaptation and development of community policy in the environment sector and the incorporation of the environment in other policies , particularly ones that contribute towards sustainable development , are central elements of the regulation we are to vote upon .
as regards the financing package for the implementation of life over the next five years , i wholeheartedly support the increase from eur 613 million to eur 850 million proposed by the rapporteur , mrs lienemann .
besides , we cannot remain indifferent towards the increased challenges in areas around the union or towards addressing very acute environmental protection problems in the applicant countries .
consequently , i consider that support for environmental action under the life financial instrument will help to further community policy in the environmental sector and can contribute substantially to fulfilling the community ' s mission of achieving a high level of environmental protection and improvement .
the commission welcomes , above all , amendments nos 1 , 2 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 13 , which apply to the committee procedures .
in these cases , parliament has fully taken account of the objections which the commission had to the common position .
with regard to amendments nos 5 and 6 , i want to emphasise that projects for the sustainable exploitation of groundwater and surface water , together with projects for reducing forms of air pollution which contribute to the greenhouse effect , are to a large degree covered by life .
amendment no 12 requires a larger budget than that stated in the common position .
i am also convinced that life has great potential .
the amount quoted in amendment no 12 does not , however , tally with the budget set on the basis of agenda 2000 .
at this stage , the commission is keeping to the amount which has been set in the common position .
with regard to amendment no 3 , which we did not approve at first reading , i want to emphasise that each programme has its own objectives , conditions under which it may be applied for and costs which make it eligible for aid .
it is therefore meaningless , and often impossible , directly to transfer projects from life to other instruments .
nor can the commission approve amendment no 14 , which is contrary to the commission ' s right of initiative .
finally , i want to repeat that i am convinced that life will be an effective instrument in support of development and the implementation of the community ' s environmental policy .
parliament has contributed greatly to improving this instrument .
i am convinced that you share my wish that it should be possible to adopt the regulation as soon as possible , especially in view of the fact that there are great expectations in the member states and in other countries , especially among the applicant states which are now being given the opportunity to participate in life .
thank you , mrs wallstrom .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
the basis is monetary cooperation , which has since been followed up by macro-economic cooperation and cooperation on employment policy .
economic stability is a reason for growth and can provide high employment .
but the reverse is also the case : a well-developed policy on social security can contribute to high employment and to increased growth .
in other words , social security is a factor of production .
the labour market is also changing .
women are venturing into the labour market in ever greater numbers .
we are creating a common model , but retaining the principle of subsidiarity .
this social convergence is a process which will continue for a long period .
parliament must therefore be involved in the work - not by being part of the high-level group , but by enabling parliamentary representatives to track the work of the latter and come up with proposals as to how the process is to be carried on .
in our report , we have highlighted the importance of combating poverty within the eu and of finding indicators as soon as possible so that we can make progress in this area .
parallel to this european strategy of social convergence , a concrete plan for legislative work in the social sphere is required , together with proposals for framework agreements in the context of the dialogue between employers and employees , accompanied by a concrete timetable .
social convergence is also needed before the enlargement of the union , partly in order to strengthen the social model and partly to combat the risk of social dumping .
the commission ought to consider devising a special action programme concerning social policy in connection with enlargement .
certainly , it resembles amendment no 1 , but amendment no 14 is better .
the eu is also a union for employment and social justice .
by means of this report , parliament wishes to make its contribution to reinforcing the social dimension of european society .
we hope that the council and the commission will take this contribution seriously and include it in future social policy .
the mutual interdependence of issues pertaining to the national economy , employment policy , and social protection in the internal market calls for there to be joint deliberations at community level in this respect .
we have not achieved equal rights for men and women either in the sphere of work or that of social protection .
as a result , they have a low level of social protection or none whatsoever , for paid employment serves as the basis for this according to systems currently in force .
however , it must still be worth an individual ' s while to work , notwithstanding all the necessary contributions .
as before , in principle it is the member states that are responsible for framing and financing their social protection systems .
nevertheless , cooperation within the eu on the part of the expert working group , in which women must be suitably represented , could be instrumental in bringing about convergence of the social systems in the long term .
gender-related aspects must feature prominently in all these goals .
i believe that congratulations are also in order for the commission with regard to this notification , for these four points are , in fact , to a very large number of eu citizens extremely important - if not the most important points which merit further thought .
the commission ' s communication is an important strategic document for bringing about european social convergence .
the commission has recognised this interrelatedness .
the challenges are different .
the levels of employment are different and this is why it is very important to set the ball rolling gently but to make steady progress nonetheless .
it is a report which tries to give direction .
i hope that europe , in terms of social protection , will make a step forward , taking into account subsidiarity , for without subsidiarity , this would not be possible .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , like my fellow mep , bartho pronk , please allow me to thank the commission for this communication and , in particular , to congratulate our rapporteur for the work he has put into this report .
commissioner , the fact that this report is no longer controversial within parliament does not mean that it has lost any of its crucial importance .
within my group , it speaks for itself that social protection forms an important part of this social cohesion and should thus also be added to the agenda in lisbon .
my group is pleased that the social affairs council gave the go-ahead for a better cooperation strategy as early on as the end of last year and that , in fact , a group of high-ranking officials has already been commissioned to submit to the council an initial report by june 2000 .
it is of great importance that , in our fellow mep ' s report , this european parliament advocates a true european strategy of social convergence , based on what provisions have been made for employment via the so-called luxembourg strategy , that is to say it should encompass common goals , guidelines , national action plans and performance evaluations .
the employment strategy has proved that it can function well and social convergence is also necessary , for our social security systems are facing the same challenges , and in an emu era , social security systems would otherwise threaten to fall prey to social competition .
but let me make one thing clear on behalf of my group : social convergence strategies should not be an alternative to social legislation .
i think that it also a good thing if , moreover , the european parliament tried to convince the council to substantiate the common strategy as early on as in lisbon and to launch an annual procedure to reduce poverty levels no later than at the beginning of 2001 .
finally , we urge the european parliament , both sides of industry and social ngos to be closely involved in this process .
we now already have major social problems and major social costs to find from the public budgets , which is a problem for many member states .
we have different traditions and there are differences in culture and , in spite of there being many points of similarity , there are also major differences between one country and another in the nature and extent of the social problems concerned .
i do not agree with the requirement that the commission should intervene in regard to what is referred to as unfair competition between social and tax systems , if interference of this kind is to be used to stem the tide of new thinking and to restrict development and the process of making our social systems more efficient , or else to prevent a reduction in the unduly high tax burden in many eu countries .
mr president , commissioner , with regard to the strategy which has been set out here on modernising social security , i would like to point out some positive things as well as raise some questions that have come up for me .
the reasons for adjustments are , for example , to improve employment , reduce social security expenditure , but are also due to policy competition and emu criteria .
policy competition mainly occurs in the northern countries .
the highest level of stability and even improvement of social security can be found in the southern countries .
all in all , both sides of industry only have a limited role to play in the process as a whole .
mr president , i come from the same country and the same region as the rapporteur , mr andersson .
but i am critical of the global perspective on social security which characterises both the commission ' s communication and mr andersson ' s report .
but social integration is an entirely different type of process which presupposes cultural community and direct communication between people .
social policy is chiefly a national process .
local democracy provides the framework for social security .
i belong to a party which , once upon a time , believed in central control , five-year plans and far-reaching convergence requirements .
i do not believe that the chief responsibility can lie with mr prodi and his commission .
but under the influence of the free movement of employees , of the internal market and of the euro , the labour markets are actually beginning to become integrated .
in order to combat distortion of competition and prevent dumping , the commission has , in my opinion , developed a well-balanced approach which steers a midcourse between harmonisation and non-intervention .
indeed , expansion , globalisation , a sharp increase in the ageing population , individualisation and changes in family situations render such reorganisation inevitable .
indeed , if social protection were to be phased out as a result of competition , this would also harm social protection as a production factor .
the discrepancies between the member states are too immense in terms of provisions , rightful claimants , revenue or benefits , etc .
social policy needs to be renewed in order to reduce unemployment in the member states .
the eu should also , on the basis of a uniform definition of poverty thresholds , table recommendations concerning what is called the minimum acceptable subsistence level in the member states .
those structural problems which make unemployment higher in europe than in the united states will become even greater .
the member states can devise their own systems in the social sphere , each within the framework of its economic resources and political preferences .
he has done a great deal of work on behalf of parliament in producing a wide-ranging consensus on what is , by any definition , a thorny issue , not just in this parliament but in virtually every member state .
to be successful we have to ensure that our economic policy , our employment policy and our social protection policy in its broadest sense , are integrated and that we deal with them as a whole .
we have to ensure that our ecofin ministers and our employment ministers acknowledge that social affairs ministers have a contribution to make to the establishment of a society in europe which is creative , has initiative and which will provide a high quality of life for all of our citizens .
we do not want the us model - a model which has spectacularly failed to create the employment that is necessary to provide a decent quality of life .
we have the traditions of solidarity in europe and we have the experience of a better way of doing things .
mr president , commissioner , this is one of the social areas to which the european union ought to pay much more attention .
macroeconomic policies , the stability pact and the criteria for nominal convergence have put a brake on modernising social protection which would improve the quality of people ' s lives , specifically by means of a significant increase in pensions and pension schemes , particularly of the minimum pensions , and through fighting social exclusion .
this situation is particularly serious in countries such as portugal where the minimum pensions and pension schemes are barely more than half of the minimum national wage which in turn , is the lowest in the whole of europe .
mr president , in my previous life i ran two manufacturing businesses , one in the united kingdom and one in the netherlands .
the simple reason for this was that social costs in the netherlands were just too high in comparison .
the european union should actually place social issues at the heart of the building of europe .
the european union should proclaim one general principle , to wit , that the social rights acquired in member states may not be restricted .
in order to strengthen the funding of social security systems , we need a policy of general wage increase , the establishment of a minimum legal wage in each member state .
in order to fight poverty , entitlement to an income and to employment are inalienable rights .
finally , in order to avoid health being treated in any way as a commodity , the european union should declare itself clearly opposed to pension funds and to a situation where private insurance companies have access to the health system .
the labour market and social protection are , in fact , two sides of the same coin , that require harmonised policies and rules .
if the labour market functions by means of certain levels of employment , flexibility and salary discipline , then it is impossible for the welfare state and social protection not to function , and vice versa .
i would like to highlight the clear positions adopted against social dumping , together with the right to a basic level of social security , the goal of social convergence , and , in particular , the quite specific points that have been made about equal opportunities for women being the primary objectives of this social policy .
i believe that the latter means the possibility of employment for those who require it , but also decisive action in support of the socially disadvantaged .
bearing in mind that everybody has the right to social protection and a minimum guaranteed social income , i believe that we must not forget about those people who were not born in the european union .
in social terms , it is therefore absolutely essential that we have an immigration policy with a social conscience , as president gutierres recently stated in spain .
what is required here is a training policy to qualify and prepare people for new jobs , for those who already have a job and for those who need a second opportunity , because sometimes , as the title of the film states , the postman always rings twice .
in my humble opinion , it is the responsibility of all european , national and regional governments to ensure that he rings on more than one occasion .
the second point is that we must bear in mind the legal basis by virtue of which the european commission can operate .
you know very well that the treaty provides no legal basis for policies at european level , but there is the agreement expressed at the last council , there is agreement that work should begin on coordination and the exchange of experience , as well as the exchange of successful programmes between the member states .
the portuguese presidency has focused on two things : sustainable pension systems and social accession .
concerning some remarks about the role of social protection systems , the cost of social protection and the part played by those systems in the competitiveness of the member states , i should like to say that in europe policies strive to combine competitiveness and social cohesion .
thank you , mrs diamantopoulou .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
forgeries are big business .
the problem affects a lot of jobs in the entertainment industry .
there exists a special clause which requires parliament ' s assent in two cases .
a new institution is being created , an assembly which , in the future , will monitor the agreement and its consequences .
parliament cannot , in any case , at present do anything about the matter .
parliament cannot change these details .
we can only say yes or no to the agreement as it stands .
both myself , as rapporteur , and the committee think we ought to say yes .
we have here an agreement which , in spite of its defects , constitutes a significant step forward for the issue of copyright .
now , the union and the member states are combining to take the first steps in the area of intellectual property law .
finally , i also want to thank this chamber for being so good as to listen to these words at this late hour .
today we are asked to give our assent in effect to two treaties : the treaty on intellectual property and the treaty on interpretations , performances and phonograms .
even though , as the commission says , the texts of the treaties do not contain special provisions to regulate all the respective issues raised by technological development , it can nevertheless be said that within the legislative framework created , performing or interpreting artists enjoy broader protection than that accorded by the treaty of rome or even by the community directives .
interpreting article 7 of the treaty , we can conclude that the application of protection for reproduction does not only mean protection for the reproduction of the interpretations or performances themselves as such that are embodied in recordings , but also protection against copying , whether in whole or in part and whether permanent or temporary , and protection against any other form of production .
first , there is the right of distribution as referred to in article 8 ( 1 ) .
to conclude , i want to say that ratification of these treaties opens a horizon for property rights .
in the 21st century , the century of knowledge and the invisible economy , intellectual property will be the dominant form of property and will , in many cases , be more important than traditional property .
we are at the dawn of an age in which new legislation will be created , where the right to utilise intellectual property will clash head on with the public interest in terms of its dissemination and exploitation by the public at large .
in signing up , the eu is acting in accordance with its intention to arrogate all internal and international powers , but it is unclear as to where the powers withdrawn from national control , are to end up .
this ratification is also necessary in the light of the enlargement of europe .
mr president , commissioner , the adoption of the wipo agreements was a very positive step in the direction of the global information society .
the new operational environment is , above all , a huge opportunity to create and spread culture in a different way than ever before .
it is essential that the interests of all parties are taken into account .
mr president , with regard to the protection of intellectual property rights , the reality always seems to be ahead of the regulations .
if this is the case , it is all the more obvious when the process involves multinational or supranational organisations , such as the wipo , which has debated the treaties which we are proposing to rectify .
in considering whether we are in favour of the ratification of these treaties , we may wonder whether they meet the most current needs in that field .
on the one hand , the problems which it aims to resolve have already been resolved to a large extent by means of the directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society .
on the other hand , the majority of the member states have already adapted their legislation to the treaties which are now being ratified .
i must finally point out that the legislative amendments introduced in a number of countries , such as spain , have resolved some conflicts but have led to others which are commonly found when it comes to putting a price on rights and material .
both the wipo copyright treaty and the wipo performances and phonograms treaty constitute progress in the international protection of copyright and neighbouring rights and are , as such , a considerable improvement on the berne convention and the treaty of rome .
both treaties contribute towards a high level of protection for works and other matters , but offer the public access to the contents of these via electronic networks .
in addition , assent leads to more widespread international recognition of the european union ' s role in terms of copyright .
at international level , there is a great deal of support for treaties entering into force more swiftly .
the entry into force of treaties largely depends on the european union , because thirty ratification acts are required in order for treaties to enter into effect , and these acts that are signed by the european union and the member states , including associated countries , are of vital importance in order to reach this number .
in this context , parliament has already played a key role in the discussions on the draft directive on copyright in the information society , which led to the approval of the barzanti report in february 1999 .
this directive is the necessary counterpart of the proposed decision and largely embraces the key principles of the wipo treaties .
the european parliament must now follow once again the exceptional assent procedure of article 300 ( 3 ) .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.55 p.m. )
we finally got here , on monday at 8.30 p.m. , after some of us had spent more than 12 hours travelling .
this sort of service and difficulty in getting to strasbourg on a monday is quite hopeless .
mr president , i just want to say that , as i was walking in this morning , i noticed two people smoking outside the hemicycle .
the consequence of all this is a reassessment of development policies in response to the globalisation of economic and financial markets .
as you will know , the aim of these objectives is to cut poverty by 50 % by 2015 , by increasing compulsory schooling , by significantly reducing child mortality rates , and by implementing a raft of social welfare measures with a view to effectively achieving this objective .
the concerted actions of the united nations institutions have played an important role here , as has the bretton woods system .
this new role for international organisations on development issues is also a good reason for us to consider the role of the european union in this context .
the portuguese presidency has highlighted the need for the european union to combine its highly important international role as the main donor with a leading role - and a more active one - in this movement to reform international development policies , and to create greater scope for coordination , in particular with the united nations system and the bretton woods system .
if we are to strengthen the european union ' s role in international development policies , we believe that it is basically necessary to take three kinds of action .
the main conclusions emphasised the need for a more coherent eu policy and a more strategic overall eu approach to development issues .
the key aspects were the need for greater coordination and greater complementarity between policies , the need for harmonisation and simplification of the present organisational framework for the union ' s present cooperation policies , the need to make the eu ' s aid management more efficient and , in particular , to review its mechanisms for intervention , and also the need to reinforce the assessment system and to introduce greater transparency into the process for granting aid .
firstly , we are all aware that it is not enough just to improve aid conditions and that there is a need for better coordination with other european union policies , so that development objectives can be achieved , not merely through aid and support , but also , first and foremost , through a more integrated approach to the various different policies that contribute to the objectives of development .
over the coming months , that is to say during the portuguese presidency , this debate will of course be enriched by the contributions that the commission has undertaken to present to us .
we will also have to await the outcome of the work of the intergovernmental conference as regards enlargement , to see to what extent the internal dynamics of the european union are directed towards increasing the coherence of its policies , and , as regards development in particular , to what extent it also contributes to appropriate institutional arrangements for achieving this objective .
there can be no doubt that implementing and developing all these aspects will inevitably make an important contribution to strengthening the role of development policies in the context of the european union ' s foreign policy .
there have been discussions , especially in recent months , about the role the development council could play in relation to eu policies .
so without a more active role for the development council in the overall coordination of political decision making which , although it directly impacts on the european union ' s development policy , is largely being dealt with outside this decision-making forum , it will certainly be difficult to establish a more coherent european union policy on development objectives .
there was also deep satisfaction on both sides when this was over , not just because it was over , but because we all knew that we had achieved something together , the eu and the 71 acp countries .
that is something that the world needs and is a very good signal in the framework of the whole discussion of globalisation .
we rationalise instruments and introduce a new system of rolling programming , allowing the community and the beneficiary country to regularly adjust their cooperation programme .
we enhance cooperation in all areas important to trade , including new issues such as labour standards and the linkages between environment and trade .
let me turn to some of the more important points .
firstly the agreement on political issues .
secondly , a new procedure has been drawn up for cases of violations of human rights , democratic principles and the rule of law .
in comparison with the current procedure , the new one puts more emphasis on the responsibility of the state concerned and allows for greater flexibility in the consultation process , with a view to conducting an effective dialogue leading to measures to be taken to redress the situation .
in cases of special urgency involving serious violations of one of these essential elements , measures will be taken immediately and the other party will be notified .
thirdly , the eu and the acp have also agreed on a new specific procedure to be launched in serious cases of corruption .
this is a real innovation , both in the eu / acp context and in international relations in general .
this procedure will be applied , not only in cases of corruption involving edf money , but also more widely in any country where the ec is financially involved and where corruption constitutes an obstacle to development .
by adopting such a provision in the partnership agreement , the eu and the acp states are together sending a clear and positive signal that will doubtless be appreciated by european taxpayers and hopefully also by european investors .
we have reached a balanced agreement on cooperation in this area .
this new dimension to the partnership agreement reflects the guidelines espoused by the eu in accordance with the treaty of amsterdam and with the conclusions of the european council in tampere in finland in october 1999 .
the european union undertakes to develop and implement an immigration and asylum policy founded on the principle of partnership with the originating countries and regions .
the agreement concluded with the acp countries paves the way for new initiatives , in particular on the rights of third country citizens within the eu , and measures facilitating their integration .
the eu and the acp states will initiate the process aimed ultimately at defining , within a framework to be negotiated with each and every acp country , the ways and means of repatriating immigrants illegally present on the territories of each party .
this also covers persons from third countries and stateless persons .
the agreement also offers a good framework to underpin the mutually reinforcing effects of trade cooperation and development aid .
we have agreed on a process to establish new trading arrangements that will pursue trade liberalisation between the parties and to formulate provisions on trade-related matters .
this two-year preparatory period will be used to strengthen regional integration processes and the acp countries ' capacity to conduct trade negotiations .
we will take account of the economic and social constraints of the acp countries in two ways : firstly , through human and social development policies to accompany economic and trade reforms and , secondly , by helping the acp states to become active players in the international economic and trade system through capacity-building and cooperation in multilateral forums .
this approach will lead us to a fully wto compatible regime .
economic operators will be more inclined to establish closer relations with their acp partners .
another important aspect is the improvement of the eu ' s trade regime for all least-developed countries , 39 of which are actually in the acp group .
this process will take place in the coming five years so that , by 2005 , the ldcs ' exporters will have free access for essentially all their products on the eu market .
it is based on the principle of reconciling the need to maintain a substantial amount of financial resources in a period of limited official development assistance budgets with the need to make community aid more effective .
the eu is committed to mobilising these remaining balances , plus the new edf resources , over a seven-year period , that is to say , before the entry into force of the next financial protocol .
there is a very real link between the reform process in the commission as such , and our ability to deliver on the ground which is the basis of the deal with the acp countries .
the marginalisation of many economies , increased poverty in the world , the need for better management of environmental interdependence , the destabilising effects of migration and the worrying consequences of armed conflicts and pandemic diseases are all major concerns .
this is due to the complexity of our own structures , but also to very real inconsistencies between sector policies and interests in the member states .
in order to face and solve these problems the community needs to engage in an effective dialogue with member states and parliament .
it is absolutely crucial that we tackle the coherence issue in a realistic and pragmatic way , which means holding the debate in the appropriate institutional framework , that is , the council and parliament .
the lack of concerted action among the 15 member states themselves and between them and the community also needs to be addressed .
when we talk policies nowadays , we engage in a process of convergence .
it is important to find flexible mechanisms that accommodate a division of labour according to the expertise and capacity of the various donors in each developing country .
also , our presence on the ground : basically , i find the biggest value we represent is the very fact that being a successful regional cooperation endeavour ourselves , we are seen as a neutral , welcome partner for this experiment world-wide - something which nobody else can claim to be .
it is vital to make community policy more effective and to develop a more operational strategic framework .
we will launch a broad and open consultation process in order to get the views of all the different parties interested .
this problem has been highlighted on several occasions , to whit in 1992 , in 1995 and 1997 .
a number of developing countries grow sugar cane for sugar production .
article 177 specifies these objectives as " sustainable economic and social development of the developing countries , and more particularly the most disadvantaged among them " , the " smooth and gradual integration of the developing countries into the world economy and the campaign against poverty in the developing countries " .
this is why we urge the commission , in this sharp and clear resolution , to develop specific instruments .
the crisis in last year ' s commission has been solved today , but the commission must now produce a policy in which we get full support for a coherent approach , which , no doubt , the entire parliament will soon demand in the resolution .
the first area of incoherence is the lack of consultation between the union and the member states on individual cooperation policies .
the second area of incoherence is aid to authoritarian regimes .
the third area of incoherence is human rights .
and yet , at the same time , we allow the arms trade to proliferate and do not even attempt to limit the trade in the most atrocious forms of arms such as anti-personnel mines .
nor do we do much to really prevent human rights violations .
the fourth area of incoherence in the european union ' s cooperation policy is this : how do you expect to help development by pillaging the natural resources of the people you are helping .
i will not even mention oil ; we are all aware of the policy of groups such as elf and total in africa .
similarly , during the wto negotiations , at a time when , to quote the second paragraph of the schwaiger report , " the current trade liberalisation process has not yet brought significant benefits for large parts of the population of developing countries , especially the poor " , the european union continues to defend the liberalisation of trade and intends to put an end to the system of favouring acp countries , albeit with a transitional period of several years , instead of strengthening it , especially for the poorest countries .
the eighth area of incoherence is of a political and practical nature .
i say it again , the european union ' s cooperation and development policy is not coherent .
and on behalf of the green group i call on parliament , the institutions and the commission to make a joint effort , at long last , to put some coherence into our policy .
however , i would also like to add that any analysis , no matter how superficial , inevitably leads us to the conclusion that something - or even a great deal - is amiss with north-south relations , including those between the european union and the less developed countries .
a new agreement has been reached with the acp countries .
but it was above all the result of a stronger acp group , which obviously found new courage following the events in seattle .
lastly , we need to go further in our development aid policies towards developing countries .
in any case , they are known all too well to the producers in the acp countries who are affected by these measures and who have to destroy their products because they cannot compete with eu-subsidised products .
add to this the fact that the agricultural sector accounts for 34 % of the developing countries ' gross national product , compared with 5.3 % in the eu .
the prime minister of the united kingdom and his foreign secretary yesterday made statements on their policy in regard to the voting system within the council .
it is quite obvious to me , as someone who specialises in development policy , that there are many areas where lack of coherence is dramatically affecting developing nations .
however , i remind this house that , back in june 1997 , a council resolution acknowledged the fact that there is a serious lack of coherence in some of the eu policies in relation to its development cooperation policy .
we still await the first report , and that is why i believe this debate was premature , as the commission had little to say on coherence this morning .
members of this house will have differing views , even within the same political parties , depending on ( a ) which country they come from or ( b ) which committee they sit on .
remember too , some countries blocked an agreement with south african trade for four years .
if we simply import raw materials from these developing countries , rather than allowing them the add-on value of producing their finished articles in their own country , we deny them the very poverty-eradication that we have set as our top principle in helping developing nations .
there is a natural resistance in the developing world to anything that would lower standards of living and create further unemployment .
mr president , this morning ' s debate is very important .
i therefore thank the commission and the council for having made a statement on the coherence of community policies in relation to development , because this demonstrates a will to make policy in this area more effective .
the result of this absurd game is not zero , but rather a minus number , as a consequence of the material , financial and human resources thrown away in a pointless enterprise .
i am therefore glad that the commission and the council are once again taking an interest in the coherence of community policies , and that , together with complementarity between national and community policies and coordination between the services of the commission , they intend to shape the policy on cooperation in accordance with the development of the european union .
both the commission and the portuguese presidency of the council state , in their respective working programmes , that they wish to give coherence to those policies which have a very important impact on the developing countries , but they do not specify concrete measures aimed at introducing this coherence .
for example , the commission , in its long term guidelines , says that the objective of sustainable development must be based on a strong sense of solidarity , supported by a commercial policy which takes common interests into account .
the commission is addressing a very important area , that is , commercial policy .
however , this parliament wishes to add policies to aid development , agriculture , fisheries policy , immigration , our position in international financial institutions , the common foreign and security policy and aid for structural reform .
let us hope - and we do hope - to be guided by the winds of change created by the intergovernmental conference , the reform of the commission - which will also affect the development services - , this new legislature and the prospects for enlargement , to perfect a more coherent political union .
we therefore hope that the commission , in the report it is going to present to us on global policy , will also address the question of coherence as an integral element in the efficient use of community resources and the specific management of public interests .
let us use this not only for the benefit of our own populations but also for that of the developing countries .
this kind of agricultural policy does not just harm the small and medium-sized producers in these countries but has the self-same effect on producers in the european union .
when i see , mr president-in-office of the council amado , that a country such as brazil , which has a surface area of over 8 million square kilometres , now has to import basic foodstuffs , and that almost 40 million people are still undernourished and starving , then i am bound to say that this also has something to do with the way we pursue our agricultural policy , inasmuch as we produce our beef mountains with the soya from this country , only to store them in cold-storage again !
what will also be of decisive importance in the future is the kind of policy the european union intends to pursue , which will be of benefit to the countries of the south in the world trade organisation in particular , how it intends to set about giving these countries a voice , an appropriate amount of say , and of course , how the european union intends to open up its markets to these countries .
votes are often taken in the most diverse committees , as well as here in plenary sitting , which in itself is not coherent and does not accord with the tenets of development policy .
there is an urgent need for more coherence , and this does not just apply to the european commission , and to the union , but to us here in this chamber too !
as various members have already commented , we often encounter situations where there is an enormous contradiction between our intentions in terms of development and cooperation policy and the damage we inflict with our other sectoral policies , whose objectives run counter to development in those countries .
we obviously know that , even within any one country , there are always contradictions between various policies .
i believe that it is both proper and fitting to set up a centre for monitoring this coherence between community policies and development and cooperation policy , and that this monitoring centre ' s sphere of activity should not be limited just to community policies , but should also cover member states ' actions and policies , including the actions of economic groups , which i think are also important .
this monitoring centre should draw up an annual report on developments in these policies and on their impact and interaction .
our objective of minimising contradictions between development and cooperation policy and other policies has to be a valid objective , not merely within the european union , but also at world level , given the increasing globalisation of the economy .
mr president , the director-general of the dg for development has said that to produce a report on coherence of eu policies with development policies , before this spring ' s paper on development policy itself , is like putting the cart before the horse .
take the new chocolate directive , which shows that eu countries spend more on chocolate every year than on development aid .
we are , at the same time , negotiating joint ventures allowing increased access for europe ' s large-scale fishing vessels in developing country waters at the expense of 190 million small-scale fish workers in those countries world-wide .
in other words , when eu commercial interests are concerned , poverty considerations go out of the window .
in the stance that we took at seattle , why such a silence on the eu ' s failure to implement the trade concessions for developing countries already agreed in the gatt , including for the crucial textile sector ?
i think that the cause should first and foremost be sought in the lack of clear agricultural policy in the various developing countries , barring a few exceptions .
it is up to the commission ' s delegations in the developing countries to assume a leading role in the development of this political dialogue and to ensure that all countries follow this line of approach .
finally , i wonder whether the funds could not be put to better use .
every year , i notice in the budget of the commission and in the european development fund , that they are far behind in spending the funds .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , we are in actual fact holding a debate amongst the converted , which is a pity .
one thing shocked me in the speech of the president-in-office of the council .
we ought to seize this opportunity and bring the last colonial episode in africa to an end .
however , the level of aid is only one of many instruments which significantly influence the development of poor countries .
finally , parliament recommends , in paragraph 6 of the draft resolution , that a working party should be established in order to bring about coherence .
yet we might consider the rate of economic progress and the rate of eliminating poverty in countries such as india and tanzania over the 40 or 50 years since they became independent .
it is quite clear that a lack of coherence of development policy with trade policy diminishes our development efforts and must also diminish the political regard of the developing countries for europe and our fine words .
mr president , in the last couple of days we have heard fine words about the need for greater coherence , coordination and effectiveness in the external aid programmes of the community and of the member states .
the member states have spent similar amounts .
mr nielson identified the problems of lack of concerted action and the need for better complementarity with member states .
the commission needs to carry out internal organisational changes , strengthen the coherence and effectiveness of its actions , ideally with a properly resourced central mine action policy cell .
mr president , commissioner nielson , the conclusion of the new acp-eu convention is an important step towards greater coherence .
and it is to be welcomed that criteria such as human rights , democracy , rule of law , and good governance are more firmly anchored in this new treaty than they were previously , and that earlier colonial relations no longer shape most of our relations to quite the same extent , rather , we now set greater store by these political criteria in this respect .
nonetheless , these are important criteria for the european union .
there is no coherence because there is still no effective coordination with the member states and there are some projects being carried out by the member states and the european union in the developing countries which are very much at odds with one another .
mr president-in-office of the council , if in future you succeed in making this eur 13.5 billion subject to the supervision of the parliamentary committee on budgetary control , and to bodies such as olaf , then i believe you will raise the level of acceptability .
in our view , cooperation is , and should remain , an intergovernmental exercise .
and let me say in passing , it is even more astonishing that the council allowed it to .
as a result , we are now in the absurd position of negotiating from a position of weakness on vital aspects such as wine and agricultural production within the framework of an agreement which we have already signed .
it is proof , as if we still needed it , of the fact that immature diplomacy , which defends no interests , unless of course they are individual interests , and is caught between the dogma of free trade and pressure groups and more or less friendly ngos , is not just inefficient , it is positively dangerous .
nowadays , let us face it , the joint assembly is seen as an obstacle to free international trade by the dogmatisers in geneva and washington .
it was a chance to reiterate that our original and exemplary mode of cooperation with the southern countries should be developed and strengthened .
secondly , it will be important to approach development policies from a different angle in this context , taking advantage of their capacity for correcting imbalances and reducing inequality .
everyone recognises , indeed this was the theme of today ' s debate , that , if the european union is to play a more active and leading role in development policies at world level , it will have no choice but to enhance the coherence of its own various development-related policies .
finally , i would like to emphasise that it is also important - and this is one of the priorities of the portuguese presidency ' s programme - to note the view that it is necessary to recognise the value of development in the european union ' s policies , and in particular in the context of its foreign policy .
we believe that this is absolutely vital , failing which we will be unable to take any consistent action as regards the coherence of policies , and we cannot do this without giving development policies their rightful place as an instrument for upholding the principles and values underpinning europe ' s status in the international system .
i have given you a statement on behalf of the commission which i think provides a useful background to this discussion .
we will furnish more detailed material relating directly to all the issues concerning coherence .
i have no doubt that as a result of the increasing political attention attached to these problems - something which has clearly been reflected in the debate today - it will be easier for the commission and the dg on development to bring coherence to the forefront of our working agenda .
this also calls for the introduction of further new mechanisms in the commission system which may very well include , as suggested by some of the political groups in parliament , the setting up of a special intra-service working group and the establishment of a kind of coherence watch in the commission .
this is true in our part of the world , but our partners and beneficiaries in africa have a slightly different perspective .
other issues have been mentioned : cattle-farming in namibia , tomatoes and milk powder in the caribbean .
i am committed to try to create a balance in all these issues and i would mention the achievement of the trade development and cooperation agreement with south africa .
finally , i thank you again for this debate .
we will come back again with material on these issues , because these problems , in one way or another , are here to stay , simply because development cooperation represents basically doing something in the world that is different from taking care of traditionally-defined trade interests , etc .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
i have received eight motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 37 ( 2 ) of the rules of procedure .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12.00 p.m .
next session of un human rights commission the next item is the statement by the council on eu priorities for the next session of the un human rights commission on 20 march 2000 .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , as you know , the european union played an active role in the 55th session of the human rights commission held in geneva in march and april 1999 .
for the first time , the european union tabled a resolution on the death penalty , which was enormously successful , and led work on a resolution concerning children ' s rights , which was a joint initiative with the latin american group of countries .
in particular , as agreed at the human rights council group on 9 february 2000 , the european union intends to table draft resolutions on the israeli settlements , iran , iraq , sudan , the democratic republic of the congo , burma / myanmar , a draft chairman ' s statement on colombia , and , possibly , on east timor , together with a draft statement on the situation in various countries .
the european union will continue discussions on preparations for the 56th session of the human rights commission at the next meeting of the human rights group in march .
in particular , there will be a discussion of the possibility of tabling a draft resolution on the death penalty .
to date , the group has not reached agreement on the strategy to be adopted in this respect , and in particular with regard to formulating a compromise to be tabled in the last resort in case of any amendments to the contrary , including article 2 ( 7 ) of the charter of the united nations , which refers to sovereignty .
we have tried to reach agreement in advance on a compromise text , in view of the difficulties that arose at the 1999 session of the third committee of the united nations general assembly , at which the member states failed to agree on an amendment introducing a reference to article 2 ( 7 ) into the draft resolution sponsored by the european union on the death penalty .
the european union voted against that motion .
the european union ' s position on the approach to be adopted towards china in the human rights commission was confirmed at the general affairs council on 21 march 1999 : there was no european union initiative on china nor was agreement reached to co-sponsor a resolution on china , but an eu vote against the no-action motion .
the united states of america will be tabling a draft resolution on china at the 56th session of the human rights commission and are putting pressure on the european union to support this draft resolution .
it is therefore important this year , too , that the countries of the european union should reach a consensus on the position to take in any vote on the resolution .
in this context it is important to note that the european union regularly opposes requests by china that the human rights dialogue should automatically rule out tabling a resolution at the human rights commission in geneva .
the european union unequivocally considers that although it is a very valuable instrument for exchanging views and for taking note of the overall position of the other party , the dialogue should also yield concrete results on the ground , and when this does not happen it may be necessary to present a resolution to the human rights commission , potentially whilst the dialogue is continuing .
the european union also regularly informs china that the human rights commission is the appropriate body for considering human rights issues , and whether or not it agrees with this initiative , this is in any case legitimate from this point of view .
the next human rights dialogue will take place on 25 february in lisbon , and will include seminars on legal issues and on women ' s rights , and it is expected that representatives from the academic world and from civil society will take part .
the next human rights seminar will be organised by the portuguese presidency in may 2000 , and , during the last round of the dialogue in october 1999 , the chinese side accepted the european union ' s proposal for technical assistance to support the process of ratifying the united nations international pact on economic , social and cultural rights and the united nations ' international pact on civil and political rights , both of which have been signed by the chinese government .
the presidency will also present to the chinese authorities a list of individual cases on which it intends to express its serious concern .
discussions within the european union about the situation in china following the outcome of the dialogue rounds in 1999 have led the european union to decide to express its concern about human rights violations in china more firmly ; the same applies to the absence of concrete outcomes from the dialogue , while recognising the positive steps that china has made on the international stage .
it was decided that the dialogue should continue , but in a more targeted and effective way , given that china has agreed with the european union ' s proposal to restructure the dialogue by means of better use of experts and to establish a closer link with the seminars .
lastly , during the next human rights commission there will also be a debate on rationalising the work of the commission itself .
as the presidency said , much remains to be done , despite the understandable request by parliament and many ngos that the european union should set out its position well in advance of the geneva session .
that does not suggest any lack of commitment to the improvement of human rights but it does indicate the usual concern to get our approach right so that we really make a difference .
spurred on by amnesty international and others , one of the first decisions i took as governor of hong kong was to abolish the death penalty .
last year ' s debate in new york on sovereignty and humanitarian intervention was such a sensitive topic that it influenced all other issues .
the debate in geneva , however , is more focused on human rights issues .
secondly , cuba .
we are also worried by the recent increase in the number of political detentions .
we are monitoring the human rights situation through the reports of ngos and the work of our human rights working group based in the eu embassies in havana .
we want to encourage a process of transition to democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
so what should be our attitude towards a geneva resolution this year ?
secondly , we will all want to take proper account of what has actually been happening in china in recent months , for instance , the heavy sentences imposed on democracy campaigners , the detention and recent punishments meted out to members of christian churches and the arrests and sentences of the members of falun gong .
chinese leaders are in no doubt about our position on all these issues and on developments in tibet .
while we all know that for many people in china there has been a real long-term improvement in their economic prospects and their social and economic liberties , there is a dark side to the picture as well .
naturally any dialogue as complex as the one on human rights is going to be a long-term process , but i wish i could point to more real gains .
the next dialogue in lisbon on 25 february will be an important test .
i am grateful to the house for its concern about human rights around the world , and particularly in china .
thank you very much , commissioner patten .
