i hope that this report , which we commissioners were given last year , will in future include subsidiarity , better regulation and assessment of alternatives , while respecting the legislative authority of the council and parliament .
finally , i want to take into account the criticism which we have seen in parliament 's report .
i hope that we can continue this debate so that it is not only a routine matter on thursday afternoon but part of the central debate on community legislation as a whole .
the debate is closed .
a survey in the 11 countries of the euro area has shown that consumers still have to pay costs of an average of eur 17.10 to transfer eur 100 between member states .
if , in 15 months ' time , the same coins and notes are introduced in 11 member states , it will be more expensive to get hold of that single currency outside the country in which you live .
karamanou report ( a5-0287 / 2000 ) mr president , we took a great deal of care over preparing the karamanou report in the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs .
the european union applies to its common fisheries policy the fundamental principle of responsible fishing and the conservation of resources , which are essential conditions for everyone , for the moroccans , for the europeans and for the non-europeans who fish in morocco .
from this rostrum and with the weight of representing european democracy on our shoulders , i call for good sense and wisdom from both parties , who will meet in brussels on 30 october at the highest level - the european fisheries commissioner and the moroccan minister for fisheries if , as i hope , his attendance in brussels is confirmed , and the technical delegations , with the moroccan secretary of state for foreign affairs of morocco , if this too is confirmed , with the director-general for fisheries of the european union as chair - so that serious dialogue may take place and solutions be found .
it is now appropriate for us to initiate a new phase in our relations with morocco , in a spirit which is best exemplified by our practical proposals concerning the aid that can be given to encourage growth and development in the moroccan fishing industry , in line with the priorities set by the moroccan government in its five-year plan .
all the efforts we have achieved over the last few months whenever the parties concerned have had meetings at a technical or political level , have essentially focused on outlining a new partnership in the fishing industry , a partnership which must be well-balanced and to our mutual advantage .
consequently , we have reached a consensus to work together with a view to achieving a responsible partnership , and morocco will give its views at a meeting to be held , as you have already pointed out , in brussels , on 30 october , that is , on monday .
a moroccan delegation will present its position in brussels on 30 october .
i , however , believe that if this really were the case , this difficult matter of the fisheries agreement with morocco would have been addressed from the start with a global approach , involving all the commissioners .
in any case , the aid will end on 31 december , the date planned for the conversion of the fleet .
eleven months after the expiry of the previous agreement , nobody is assuring us that we will reach an agreement before 31 december .
mr busquin , i have sometimes , as a member of this parliament , had the feeling that the european commission , the commissioner , and in particular the director-general for fisheries were acting as if they were ashamed of the sector and even of those member states that they were called upon to represent in this negotiation .
and it fits in even less with a european union that feels able to negotiate the accession of 13 new member states .
the european union wants to continue its association with morocco in the field of fisheries because we are convinced that a cooperation to the advantage of both parties is possible , for the same reasons that make the european union the largest investor in morocco .
the first , the second and the third .
mr president , commissioner , the fisheries agreements play a very important role in the fisheries sector .
by means of the fisheries agreements , the european union is able to engage in fishing operations and exchange fishing rights with third countries .
the negotiations concerning a new agreement between the eu and morocco have made slow progress .
commissioner fischler has stated that this monologue cannot continue .
the fishermen in particular cannot be blamed for not understanding the situation and for being very disappointed about the fact that the negotiations concerning the morocco agreement have dragged on .
but while we have plenty of vessels that cannot find fish in european waters , or even in areas where they have traditionally fished , at the same time we have some businessmen , or even business conglomerates , in northern european countries that are building enormous new vessels , which will be forced to depend on fishing far away from europe .
we will support the resolution , but we have to make it clear that nobody has any given right to exploit the resources of another country if it does not so wish .
mr president , i think it would be constructive if a new fisheries agreement with morocco could be concluded , but i nonetheless think that there are major weaknesses in the text of the resolution which is now being proposed .
this especially applies to paragraphs 3 and 4 , in which it is assumed as a matter of course that the eu should be allowed - in fact , be almost entitled - to fish in moroccan waters .
el aaiun is not , however , situated in morocco but in western sahara , which is occupied by morocco .
furthermore , when we complain day after day about the fact that negotiations seem to be falling by the wayside , both the existing agreements and new ones , and the lack of interest that both the commission and sections of the council seem to be displaying - and here we have the recent cases of angola , cape verde and kiribati - , it is quite simply suicidal to block a path which is a solid base for the fisheries activities of the community fleet , and could be even more so in the future .
we are therefore defending the responsibility that lies with us in the bilateral agreements and in private agreements , where the activity of the fleet is regulated - and will be even more so in future - by regional fisheries organisations such as iccat , nafo and camelar .
i believe that this fact should be noted and made clear and doubts raised as to whether the commission is capable of negotiating international agreements , especially having heard president prodi request an international remit for the commission .
however , after a wasted year , and at a time when we are trying to put budgetary appropriations that were earmarked for the agreement under other headings , i must also express my deep suspicion about the commission 's commitment to protecting the legitimate interests of the shipowners and fishermen affected , and state my scepticism about the real will of the union and of many member states , amongst them spain , to negotiate the agreement in the " general field of political and economic relations between morocco and the european union " as we propose in the resolution .
the proposed resolution will not lead to the restoration of fishing rights , but , at best , to spain and portugal having a more solid claim to compensation subsidies .
mr president , commissioner , the european union has had fishing agreements with morocco since 1992 .
under this agreement , around 500 boats from the european union , 50 of which are portuguese , have had access to moroccan waters at an annual cost of around eur 125 million .
firstly , it must be emphasised that the fishing agreement with morocco is by far the european union ' s most important agreement , representing more than 30 % of all catches by the community fleet in third-country waters .
i say in the european union and not just in two of its constituent parts , as some members have insinuated : european solidarity must be more than empty words or just a one-dimensional idea that simply evaporates when the problems happen to be concentrated chiefly in portugal and spain ...
unfortunately , the commission was not able to reach new agreements in the negotiations with morocco held before the expiry of the fisheries agreement on 30 november 1999 .
the union must prepare a programme for conversion of activities carried out by the operators affected , in order to give them a stable future .
mr president , commissioner , i am not going to repeat what has been said this morning in this plenary sitting and has been being said for almost a year .
spain has done a magnificent job in turning round the difficult neighbourly relations which europe and north africa and spain and morocco have suffered during the course of history .
it reminded me of scenes from our history and from my childhood , when konrad adenauer and charles de gaulle drove through german towns in exactly the same way , demonstrating that the problems between the two neighbours had been overcome and that france and germany would together form the core of european integration .
the spanish and portuguese fishermen deserve our undivided support .
mr president , the tender fruit negotiation will be opened up in three days ' time , and we will then know if it is ripe or green , or sufficiently ripe for us all to feel calm and for both the parties concerned , the european union and morocco , to start sounding out methods of cooperation and agreements in a manner that is flexible , commissioner , but also serious and rigorous , so that the community fishing fleet may recommence its activities in those waters .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would simply like to add that there are clearly agreements between the two parties to establish a timetable for negotiations and that morocco has spent months preparing its five-year plan .
he had gained a favourable impression from his meeting , which augurs well for the negotiations , due to start on 30 october , being conducted in a constructive spirit .
i think we must therefore wait for the results of the meetings of 30 october .
it is therefore too soon to broach this issue .
i am very familiar with the problems of spanish and portuguese fishermen , problems which are shared by fishermen in sicily .
let us name names , to coin a phrase : it is about the case of the union citizens allue and coonan versus the university of venice , it is about the case of the union citizen allue again versus the university of venice and it is about the case of the union citizen david petri versus the university of verona .
the amendments made to the law in its wake in 1995 are still unable to guarantee full protection of the rights of lettori lecturing in universities .
apart from the fact that this was not discussed in the committee on legal affairs , we would be maintaining here that the legal basis in italian law corresponds to the principles of the treaty and yet the court of justice said exactly the opposite !
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the case of non-italian foreign language assistants in italian universities is well known in the commission and in most european institutions .
more particularly , following the decisions of the court of justice of 1989 and 1993 - the allue case - which ruled that the limitations on the duration of employment contracts of foreign-language assistants imposed by the italian government were discriminatory , the commission took a number of steps .
it initiated an infringement procedure , which was dropped in 1995 following an italian law bringing the legislation into line with the court ruling .
in july 1999 , the commission brought this infringement procedure before the court of justice .
it is now waiting for the court to rule on this new infringement and on this new procedure , which was initiated by the commission .
it is intolerable for european citizens to have some sort of privileged access in a state other than their own and not to have to undergo the same tests and bear the same burdens as the citizens of that country , in the case in the point the citizens of italy .
mr president , i rise to give my voice to this injustice that we have heard about , an injustice , as we have also heard , that has been going on now for 12 years .
but i have to say we are looking at this commission : the president of this commission is fully aware of this case , is fully aware of the facts , and yet nothing has been done to resolve it .
in the last eleven years we have seen three european court of justice judgments in favour of the lettori .
on 13 september this year the european ombudsman sustained a complaint by them and a number of individual cases have been upheld in the italian courts .
if in this parliament we genuinely believe in a citizen 's europe , we must strive to secure one .
nobody disputes that the italian republic is fully within its entitlement , in 1995 or at any other time , to say for the future we will not hire people as lettori , we will bring in people for a new kind of appointment .
by coincidence , this very afternoon i am off to italy , a country that i love so much , to lecture about the benefits of the mediterranean diet , which has been exported so successfully to the rest of the world , and therefore it saddens me all the more to make this speech criticising its government and its rules in this area .
after the italian universities had responded by saying that the judgment did not specifically require them to offer open-ended contracts , a second judgment of the court in 1993 spelt out clearly that the length of the contracts could not be fixed .
in the instance of my motion on the royal family this was even described by the liberal rapporteur in this house on human rights as an exotic motion of no interest .
these issues are vital to uphold european freedom and in my view there is no national issue of vital interest to the security of the italian state which is being threatened by either the royal family or the italian foreign lecturers .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the debate on this question , which goes beyond italy , is a highly interesting and most important debate .
italy then adopted a new text in 1996 eliminating the discriminatory elements that existed before .
but there is a second aspect to the problem : the question of acquired rights .
in this context , it can no longer be a question of discrimination .
the debate is closed .
motion for a resolution ( b5-0824 / 2000 ) on the rights of language teachers : maintenance of the rule of law after the vote on recital h : mr president , i hereby suggest that we insert the word " unconvincingly " between " government " and " claims " in this amendment .
as there are no objections to this oral amendment , we shall vote on it . ( parliament adopted the motion for a resolution ) explanations of vote mr president , i will not excuse the italian government or the italian courts for condemning many pensioners to a low pension , but in this case i voted against the report because i consider the judgments of the court of justice to be erroneous .
mr president , i have a great deal of sympathy for language teachers in italy who do not have italian nationality .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 27 october 2000 .
my thoughts are also with the many people who were injured in the attack in madrid on 30 october .
they were happily on their way to ski on the slopes in austria when 155 of them died in appalling circumstances in the disaster on the kaprun funicular .
i should like to thank you - i do not know whether anyone else will be speaking about this - on behalf of many members of this house and , in any case , on behalf of my group and my delegation .
we are united in shock and grief for the 150 people who died and we share in the pain of their relatives .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting the minutes of the sitting of friday 27 october have been distributed .
madam president , i should like to state - also on behalf of my group - that referring this report back to the committee responsible in accordance with rule 144 of the rules of procedure would actually be the correct course of action for parliament to adopt , because i prepared a report and only found out afterwards that the council had plans in this field .
we have done our job and , in my opinion , our work should be concluded irrespective of the council ' s position .
relating to wednesday : with regard to the statement by the commission on bse and the ban on animal meal in all animal feedingstuffs , the group of the party of european socialists requests that the council also make a statement on this matter .
mrs napoletano , we could of course proceed in that way .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , our group regards this incident as being so important that we do not consider it appropriate for it to be dealt with in the topical and urgent debate .
we think that we should address this matter in the form of an oral question to the council and the commission , and would like to draft this carefully to ensure that both the council and the commission do discuss it .
madam president , my group has listened carefully to this proposal .
therefore , under the treaties and under the euratom treaty this issue falls within the competence of the commission ; it affects or may affect many citizens who are not just spanish , because in this area and its surroundings - and there is no emergency plan in place - there are hundreds of thousands of european citizens from the fifteen countries of the union as well as many people from outside , because this is the costa del sol .
i should therefore like to ask for a formal commitment from the ppe that we should vote together in favour of having this matter included as a question to the commission and the council at the next part-session .
mr baron crespo , i would like to make sure i understand you correctly .
i have the impression that you agree with their rationale , mr baron crespo , if i understand you correctly .
madam president , my group would be in favour of accepting the inclusion of this question on december ' s agenda .
mr poettering , is that what you intended ?
he stayed on to vote on thursday morning and then his foot was put in plaster .
madam president , i would like to inform parliament of a serious initiative undertaken last week in italy by the regional government of the lazio region .
hence amendments nos 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 .
the republic of portugal presented a draft protocol amending article 2 of the convention on the establishment of a european police office , europol .
this portuguese initiative aims to extend europol ' s competences in order to establish a general framework of competence for europol in relation to money laundering .
on the question of democratic accountability , i note that at the moment article 39 of the europol convention requires that the european parliament simply be consulted on an annual report .
this is quite unacceptable and on several recent occasions , parliament has requested , in particular in the nassauer and cederschiold reports , modifications to the europol convention to ensure true democratic accountability of this agency .
these requests are covered in amendments nos 2 and 4 of mrs karamanou ' s report .
in the more specific area of combating money laundering , we could cite the council directive of 10 june 1991 , as recently amended , for which our fellow mep , mr lehne , acted as rapporteur .
by virtue of article 2 of the draft convention , the member states can no longer decline to conduct searches or seize items by invoking the reservations set out in article 5 of the convention of 1959 .
article 6 , for its part , provides for the making of supplementary requests for mutual assistance , and article 7 states that fiscal exceptions can no longer constitute a reason for refusing mutual assistance .
the non-invocability of banking and commercial secrecy in response to requests for mutual assistance is set down in article 3 .
furthermore , article 8 of the draft convention limits the reasons which member states may invoke for refusing to provide assistance to " essential interests " .
article 9 requires the member states to set up integrated multidisciplinary teams at national level in order to enhance the efficiency of searches and promote information exchanges .
the sole aim of these proposals is to achieve mutual assistance that is as effective as possible and meets the challenges posed by organised crime , particularly in the field of money laundering .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , my task is a relatively easy one : if i am supposed to comment on behalf of the legal affairs committee on the portuguese presidency ' s proposal regarding involving europol in the fight against money laundering , then i can only say that it is a good proposal .
as i have said , that is why i support the proposals on the table today but , at the same time , i would take this opportunity to give you advance notice that there will be a real battle with the council over the common position on the second directive to combat money laundering .
political europe is progressing slowly but , unfortunately , 15 internal borders continue to exist wherever judges and magistrates , legal proceedings and court decisions are concerned .
the portuguese initiative concerning the europol convention is intended to spur the european parliament into choosing the right route to ensuring security , with this hingeing around a discretionary filing of records on citizens in all the areas affecting their private lives .
mr president , allow me to start by congratulating our rapporteur , mr marinho .
i welcome this debate and discussion .
however , as many speakers have said , there is not enough democratic control and accountability .
we want to see parliamentary involvement in the appointments of the director , and by a majority vote because , when we have enlargement to 28 member states , it will be very difficult to find everybody agreeing on the identity of the director .
it has to be by a majority vote - we propose two-thirds - and we also want parliamentary involvement in the dismissal of the director , if ever that becomes necessary , by a two-thirds vote as well .
already today there are about 120 different police forces in the european union , most of them , i may say , in my own member state , because in the united kingdom we have a police force in every single county and they only work up to their county borders .
one example is a person on a money laundering charge , held for 364 days in custody in portugal without any charge being presented .
well , here we have another good example : in combating money laundering we may put at stake something that , far from being a lawyer ' s privilege , is an essential element in this right to a fair trial , which in turn is an essential element in all our european development , culture and identity .
this report includes a recital on the geneva appeal , and the group of the european people ' s party will vote against it , not because we are against the geneva appeal , but simply because as parliament we must ensure the quality of legislation .
however , it is also necessary if we are to strengthen the attractiveness of the european union as a location for business ; moreover it is something which the public wants and we must respect their wishes because the people who live in the european union have a right to security .
the second measure , the second instrument , is harmonisation .
the european union and we , the european parliament , are seizing a new opportunity in the fight against organised crime , which preoccupies us to such an extent .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the development of the economy and the phenomenon of globalisation have been accompanied in recent years with an increase in international crime .
today we are discussing three reports that acknowledge the fact that money laundering lies at the root of organised crime and must therefore be eradicated , wherever it may take place .
i agree with the general thrust of the report , but i harbour some doubts as to the rapporteur ' s amendment claiming that this framework decision should also apply to less serious crimes .
the karamanou report seeks to extend europol ' s competences to cover the crime of money laundering by strengthening police cooperation and by providing europol with more effective instruments .
finally , the roure report seeks to remove a large number of judicial obstacles to mutual legal assistance and , at the same time , provides for the adoption of practical measures designed to strengthen this cooperation .
i would like to see the report ' s guideline with regard to the professional confidentiality of lawyers maintained , a guideline that has already received a favourable vote in this parliament - when the lehne report on money laundering was adopted .
we also acknowledge here that professional confidentiality is an essential factor in the administration of justice , since any breach of this law could entail a violation of our citizens ' civil liberties .
with regard to a compromise situation on this issue , there are two options : either the article in question refers to people who concentrate on certain activities and does not need to mention lawyers or any other professional category , or it refers to lawyers , creating a situation which in itself threatens professional confidentiality , however much the article specifies or defines the activities to which it refers .
for all of these reasons , mr president , i shall vote against the amendment to article 3 , even as a compromise wording for the legislative proposal .
this was also the subject of the joint justice and internal affairs / ecofin council meeting held on 17 october .
we are convinced that this framework decision will constitute a significant advance in enabling common sanctions to be established for all the countries in the european union .
this means that , with this framework decision , we will have two legal instruments establishing , not just common incriminations , but also common sanctions for two types of offences .
it is my view that , specifically where mr marinho suggests that common offences should be defined for those cases that are punished less severely or for other illegal acts provided for in article 6 of the european council convention on money laundering , we ought not to consider this approach straightaway , but base our concern on an assessment of the specific results that are obtained following the implementation of the joint action that was agreed on in december 1998 and which has not yet shown all that it can do .
by the same token , i wish to say that i am aware of the sensitiveness of the issue raised by various members about the conditions in which the confidentiality of the legal professions may constitute a justified refusal to cooperate in the fight against money laundering .
lastly , the commission is also pleased to note the support parliament has given to extending europol ' s competences to cover all forms of money laundering .
the karamanou report , on which i should also like to congratulate the rapporteur , proposes various amendments with regard to improving the democratic and judicial control of europol .
we feel that extending europol ' s competences should be carried out at the same time in all member states and not in a staggered way , which could lead to greater confusion .
the debate is closed .
the european union is making progress in the fight against serious crime .
that is why i have proposed to extend the legal base by adding article 29 of the treaty on european union .
overall the task is so great and so important that it cannot be overseen by the council alone .
let us continue to work together on this basis .
one example is her amendment no 9 , which moves that , in future , this initiative should be taken into account in the final decisions made on the eurojust unit .
there cannot be mutual recognition if there is no mutual trust between states on which to found it .
the clear allocation of fields of intervention to either judicial cooperation or police cooperation is not only needed to prevent any conflict of responsibilities , but is also fundamental in terms of guaranteeing observance of the democratic rules that form the bedrock of the rule of law .
the european parliament is the supranational community body that can determine this relationship , and i therefore propose that you support its validity by showing support for our rapporteur .
however , there have been difficulties in the whole area of police and judicial affairs , in particular because of fear or lack of trust with regard to the efficiency or the ability of individual police forces or individual judicial networks to deal with the volume of crime which is now being highlighted at a cross-border level .
mr president , over this part-session we are going to be called upon to express our opinions on a number of proposals regarding the creation of an area of security and justice .
this is a positive development , and it is therefore gratifying that there should be so much support for it in parliament .
the creation of eurojust is part of the european action for fighting organised crime which seeks to strengthen and guarantee the balanced development of police and judicial cooperation in the european union .
such would be the case , for example , with a criminal who commits a crime in one member state and then seeks refuge in another member state , as their crime has been a serious one .
and this is why i also see in this an important tool for ensuring judicial control of europol .
it is for this reason that the mutual relationships between eurojust , europol and olaf , in its role as a specialist body for combating fraud , and the existing european judicial network must be clearly defined .
the commission welcomes your report , mrs gebhardt .
i hope that parliament will adopt it .
we will have the opportunity to make our commitment to this provisional unit from 1 january 2001 , but the commission wants to sustain the debate on the form that the definitive eurojust unit will take .
the debate is closed .
the fair programme - fisheries , agriculture and agro-industrial research - was part of the fourth framework programme which ran from 1994 to 1998 .
one could argue that there was no need at all for parliament to deal with these outdated issues any more , because - so people say - the new commission is of course doing everything better in any case .
mr president , the fisheries committee report was rather brief , in any case .
we can expect a more constructive approach to research when it is done by people interested in research rather than by people who administer the policies , as in the case of agriculture .
the court of auditors ' report on the fair programme , from which the rapporteur ' s report arises , was only published in march this year even though the sector letters regarding the audit were first sent to the commission in december 1998 and february 1999 .
the court of auditors ' report found a number of significant problems with the management of the fair programme during 1994 to 1998 , including a lack of quantified objectives for the programme , making it difficult to fully measure the results , insufficient transparency in selection and evaluation procedures and the management of measures under the programme by three dgs .
one problem which remains is the eur 3.4 million still to be recovered , 92 % of which is accounted for by three files which have been under examination by the commission ' s legal services since july 1996 and august 1997 and whose due dates have expired .
i should just like to touch on a few points which are , in my opinion , decisive for the future work of monitoring research in general .
in paragraph 59 in the court of auditors ' report , this is illustrated relatively clearly .
commissioner , in the near future - and then also with the work of the new commission in mind - we will have to deal with further court of auditors ' reports or audit reports , such as the one on the joint research centre , which has turned out to be very critical , but also the special audit report on a very unusual contract with a consultancy firm .
you have underscored , and i would thank you for this , the spirit underlying this report , in your dialogue with the court of auditors and the commission ' s services and in the value you attached to it .
as you have emphasised , the fair programme is financed to the tune of 739 million euros .
it has given rise to over 3 300 proposals , more than 600 of which have received funding .
first of all , you should know that responsibility for managing agricultural research has been transferred to the agriculture dg and the research dg , following the reorganisation of the commission ' s services , which has resulted in a degree of uniformity in the agriculture dg ' s research procedures .
the same may not apply to research in the field of fisheries , but it has been the case with agriculture .
thirdly , the commission has adopted a common procedure for the evaluation of research proposals applicable to all the specific programmes , which can be consulted by the public in the common manual of evaluation procedures .
a common research database has been established .
this may seem a substantial sum , but it in fact only represents 0.3 % of total financing under the programme .
there are still some new applications to put into practice , and i would like to take this opportunity to outline the guidelines on community research that we would like to develop for the next framework programme , and which the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy has already examined , since i sent a policy paper to this parliamentary committee on 4 october , and it is to draw up a report .
the debate is closed .
in the modification of the agenda for thursday the subject of the british submarine in gibraltar was discussed and there were three speakers .
thank you , mr aparicio sanchez .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , after nine months ' work and a long struggle for consensus , we now have a draft european charter of fundamental rights .
today is the day we have to say ' yes ' or ' no ' to this charter and your rapporteurs recommend that plenary adopt and vote in favour of this charter of fundamental rights .
like many of you , i too regret that we are only allowed to say yes or no and are unable to send the council any other political message which might have been called for in this context in order to express the critical support of this house for the charter of fundamental rights , which is but a first step and is still a far cry from what parliament demanded of this political project in march of this year .
vague formulations and legal principles have given way to a clear system of fundamental rights which is binding on all the eu institutions and whenever european law is applied by the member states .
the value of this charter is that it has transformed rights vested in international law - vested but not binding , vested but not enforceable , vested but not guaranteed - into legal principles , nay into the constitutional principles of the union itself , setting up a dynamic process which will surely end one day with a legally binding charter of fundamental rights .
this charter is also the expression of a common set of basic values for all the candidate countries , for all the countries wishing to join the european union , and it is precisely in the area of social rights that it sends candidate countries a clear message that they must comply with these social standards .
i am certain that , with this charter of fundamental rights , we have laid the foundation stone for a future european constitution and constitutional process .
it is hard to see why the right to a fair wage has been left out and why we came up against insurmountable resistance when it came to the right to a decent minimum standard of living , the right to work and the right to housing .
madam president , whatever one felt about the mandate from the cologne european council , it was fairly surprising that the convention set up to draft the charter fully succeeded in achieving the mandate .
we refrained from superseding the treaties but maximised their impact by making the relationship between the citizen and the union for the first time clear and visible .
parliament played a strong part is formulating the charter .
i am particularly pleased to have this opportunity to address the house as part of an in-depth debate on this fine project to establish a charter of fundamental rights of the european union before parliament adopts its final position on this text .
admittedly , we have already exchanged views on this matter on two occasions , firstly on 3 october , following an oral question from the chairman of your committee on constitutional affairs , giorgio napolitano , and then on 24 october , when i came to parliament to present the results of the informal european council in biarritz on 13 and 14 october , where , indeed , the charter was one of the major items on the agenda .
for all that , however , today ' s debate , in my opinion , is a far cry from being needless repetition .
it is , on the contrary , particularly important as today parliament is to decide if , as is urged by the conclusions of the cologne council , it is going to proclaim this text , jointly with the council and the commission , at the european council meeting in nice , which is less than a month away now .
this is quite clearly a major political decision and a fresh opportunity to show the citizens of europe the whole scope of this initiative .
as you know , this position is in line with that adopted by the heads of state and government at the biarritz european council who unanimously and unreservedly approved the charter , and i can only urge you , therefore , on behalf of the council , to follow suit , perhaps giving you a few reasons to do so .
so , with a concern for openness which paid off in the end , in the course of its work the convention heard from the major european non-governmental organisations , both sides of industry in europe and , importantly , too , for the future , the candidate countries .
i know that the convention experiment already clearly appears to be one of the avenues - one , but not the only avenue - which europe could follow up in future in order to be more transparent and in touch with the opinions of european citizens .
members of the european parliament , particularly in our previous debate , have already expressed the wish to repeat the experiment .
moreover , at a time when we have just celebrated the 50th anniversary of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms , i think we can safely leave it to the judges of both institutions to fuel and continue the dialogue they already maintain , which is undoubtedly adequate guarantee against any risk of the two-speed europe of human rights that some people have mentioned .
it also enshrines many new rights which are not included in the convention and which are necessitated by developments in our societies , be it in terms of technological development , the emergence of new dependencies , or even the increasing complexity of our state and administrative systems .
it is particularly important that european citizens should know , for example , that the european union prohibits all human cloning for reproductive purposes or that it guarantees its citizens protection of their personal data .
let me , once again , congratulate president herzog in person , who , i believe , was behind this .
this is the solidarity which the charter guarantees through the right to free education , the right of workers to be informed and consulted , the right to collective bargaining and action , including the right to strike , even if it was not easy to get it included in the text , but also through the right to protection against unjustified dismissal , the right to social protection and the ban on children working .
i shall also stress article 23 , which is particularly clear in stipulating equality between men and women , and stating that this must be ensured in all areas , and that the principle of equality shall not prevent the adoption of measures providing for specific advantages in favour of the under-represented sex .
overall , i should say that this text unquestionably marks the greatest collective advance in terms of affirming social rights , both because of the importance of the rights enshrined and also because these rights are included for the first time in the same text as civic and political rights , thereby officially signposting the indivisible nature of all fundamental rights .
as to the method , let me remind you that the convention itself determined its own rules of procedure , without any external pressure , and that the rule of consensus seemed to be a particularly constructive option in a body as diverse as the convention .
i am sure the convention members that are to speak here will be able to confirm that .
the european trade union confederation , for its part , saw fit to complain about what it considers to be some omissions , such as the lack of any reference to the right to a minimum income , for example .
i should therefore like to make a few things clear once again .
the purpose of the charter was to collate the fundamental rights , not , at this stage , to form a social treaty - regrettable as that may be , and it may be something that will come in time - and the convention ' s mandate , as stipulated in the initial specification , did not entitle it to create completely new social rights out of nothing .
so , as you know , the presidency , on the basis of the conclusions of the lisbon council , has launched the initiative of a social agenda , intended to determine what action the european union will undertake in the next few years in order to take existing needs in to account , providing , in particular , a qualitative and quantitative improvement in employment , as well as greater social cohesion .
the heads of state and government were alive to this determination when they , if not adopted - that is still to come in nice - at least approved the text of the charter .
let me now , in conclusion , turn to the matter of the legal status of the charter , which has already been mentioned .
i can assure you , then , since it will not be possible to pose this question officially until after nice , that the french presidency fully intends to strive to include this perspective in the conclusions of the nice european council .
the fact remains that several individuals , members of the european parliament in particular , have suggested that explicit reference to the charter of fundamental rights be included in article 6 of the treaty on european union , which already refers to the european convention on human rights .
you know that , in a personal capacity , i have shown my openness to this proposal , and even my support for it , and i would reiterate that here .
i am convinced then , that this charter , by virtue of its clarity , its coherence and its content , will come to the fore as the benchmark text which the european union so badly needed .
i can only , therefore , on behalf of the council presidency , urge you once again to adopt the charter of fundamental rights with a view to its joint official proclamation in nice .
madam president , mr president-in-office , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , one of the main tasks of the directly-elected members of the european parliament , which represents the 370 million citizens of the european union , is to bring the unifying structure of europe closer to its people .
it is a huge feather in this institution 's cap - as is the fact that the groups stood side by side here - that we managed to secure 16 places for european parliament representatives at the fundamental rights convention .
ladies and gentlemen - and i mean everyone involved from the european parliament - made a decisive contribution ; as a result , the difficult instructions of the cologne european council were carried out successfully in a very short space of time and with the maximum possible attention .
but our special thanks must go to all the members of the convention , especially its chairman , former president of the federal republic of germany , roman herzog , to whom i should like at this point to wish a speedy recovery .
the draft before us is a balanced text which has already been applauded on all sides as an example of european consensus .
but europe will only progress and find its feet if we are all prepared to help bring about a good result .
the charter before us is , to my mind , a huge success and may , as i read in one of the european broadsheets on 26 september 2000 , become the calling card for europe .
in saying yes , we are instructing you , madam president , to proclaim the charter with the president of the european council and the president of the european commission at the eu summit in nice in a few weeks ' time .
if we , as the representatives and trustees of the citizens of the european union and of europe as a whole , wish to continue with the unification of our continent in an ambitious and committed manner , then the solemn proclamation cannot but be a first step along the way .
we in the european people 's party are jointly and firmly committed to including the charter of fundamental rights in the treaties as quickly as possible so that it can become a charter of direct and unassailable rights for the people of the european union .
mr president-in-office , you have taken a stand here and i hear what you are saying but let me say quite clearly on behalf of the european people 's party that we expect an ambitious result from nice - an ambitious result on the conditions for enlargement of the european union and an ambitious result for the charter , which is why i again call on the presidency of the council , on behalf of the members of the european people 's party , to ensure that a timetable is drawn up for transposing the charter of fundamental rights into the eu treaties .
i would like to remind you that the first time that the declaration of rights was discussed was at the congress of europe in the hague in 1948 , and that was the origin of the european convention on human rights of the council of europe .
i think that this needs to be highlighted today because the work that we have carried out is not the exclusive property of any political family , and this gesture does credit to the german presidency at the time and shows that we all need to move forward together in achieving fundamental values .
i think that we have also done this in the european parliament .
i have had the opportunity to express my admiration for the work carried out by inigo mendez de vigo , as chairman of the european parliament delegation .
i would also like to point out the crucial role played by my colleague mrs pervenche beres , when she led the delegation from the group of the party of european socialists .
our governments need to obtain tangible results in nice that they can offer to our citizens - institutional matters are important but , as the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner are well aware , they are difficult to sell to public opinion .
therefore , my group still thinks that it is absolutely essential to include a reference to the charter in article 6 ( 2 ) of the treaty .
as i believe that the president-in-office of the council is going to have a very busy weekend with the next meeting , i ask him to pass on a message to that meeting , so that the ministers of foreign affairs can pass it on to the heads of government .
it is as follows : if the european council in nice does not succeed in integrating the charter in this way , i am afraid that the european parliament will have difficulty approving the reform of the treaties .
i think that this is a positive message that the president-in-office of the council must give to his colleagues , because we still have time to include the charter in article 6 of the treaties .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the charter of fundamental rights , which is a key stage in the construction of europe , has given rise to much discussion .
everything conspired to strengthen this hope : the formation of the convention which established a new precedent in relation to the usual intergovernmental method , the public debates and the full set of texts available on an internet site that was accessible to everyone , as well as the fact that the opinion of civil society was consulted .
the right to employment was transformed into the right to work .
the right to health , social security , accommodation or a minimum income either do not feature , or are expressed only as a token of social cohesion .
discrimination between european and third country residents is ratified , as is the freedom of movement laid down in the treaty of amsterdam , or the right to live as a family , even though this is recognised in international law .
as regards fundamental rights , is it possible to accept a minimal common denominator at a time when europe wishes to set itself up as a role model for human rights ?
at the european summit in nice , in december , civil society resolved to mobilise in order to make itself heard and to forcefully express its desire for a charter offering the citizens of europe genuine guarantees .
we must support these actions and , rather than accepting a shaky text , we must call upon the convention to continue working after nice , involving new procedures and extensive public debate .
madam president , the charter of fundamental rights is a very important project for the future of european integration and it has my support .
secondly , because it plugs a gap in the protection of fundamental rights for people living in the union .
thirdly , because the charter also ensures that the current level of protection in the european human rights convention also applies in the union ; in fact , at some points , it goes even further than the european human rights convention .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i believe this charter is nothing more than the umpteenth example of the ability of the european union and its member states to proliferate empty texts and declarations of intent .
behind the vote on the charter , there is an ill-concealed agenda to create the first part of a constitution for what might be called a united states of europe .
the charter will not , of course , be written into the treaty until after a special constitutional conference in 2004 but , as it receives the solemn signature of the commission , the council and parliament , the european court of justice will already be acquiring a new source for its judgements , and the court of justice ' s representative has , of course , already given notice that it will draw inspiration from the charter .
the european court of justice will become our new supreme court and constitutional court , including in all issues relating to fundamental and human rights , and it will also become the chief interpreter of the european declaration of human rights .
madam president , first my heartfelt thanks to my friend and delegation leader mendez de vigo , who swapped places with me because i was due to head a conciliation for parliament .
the charter of fundamental rights is to become part of a future european constitutional treaty - a constitutional treaty , mind you , not a constitution - , in order to make it perfectly clear that the european union is not a state , it is not a nation state ; on the contrary , the european union goes its own separate way .
if we want europe to succeed , we need to define these concepts clearly ; if we want europe to succeed , we need a streamlined europe .
let us remember that this was originally an initiative from felipe gonzales , who proposed this fine idea .
some members of this house , including in my own political family , in the widest sense , will deplore the lack of reference to a minimum income , the right to accommodation or the lack of any explicit reference to the european social charter and the community charter of fundamental social rights in the general provisions of the text .
i would , however , urge them to read the text carefully .
the charter has actually been drawn up as if it were a text which might become binding .
to adopt an expression used by catherine lalumiere , i would say that we have to " put it into orbit " .
in order to do so , we all need to work hand in hand , on the basis of , i hope , the largest possible vote by this house .
this means that we must all get involved , members of the european parliament , members of the national parliaments , the council , of course , the national government , but also that same civil society which supported us in the process of drawing up the text .
my impression was that , even though several governments did not want it , there might still be a clear majority in favour of a reference in article 6 .
this is the mandate we have given our representatives .
as far as parliament is concerned , the phase we are about to enter is the outcome of a long struggle , one we undertook as early as 1975 and which has been continually highlighted through our resolutions , our spinelli draft treaties , our draft european constitutions .
that right does not exist in other international documents , and it is absent from the constitutions of many member states .
the charter also opens the way to minority rights because article 22 says that the european union must respect cultural , religious and linguistic diversity .
it has been so successful that , in his speech last friday , the finnish prime minister singled out the method as a way of coming up with ideas in anticipation of a future eu constitution .
we have a text here which states concisely what europe is about and states what rights we uphold as citizens of this great union .
as i said last night - i will say it again today - there are too many failings in that respect all across this union and sometimes , in our eagerness to develop judicial and police cooperation , we neglect the importance of ensuring that the innocent are not made the passive victims , the collateral damage of a war against crime .
let us not merely adopt these rights but make them real in the hearts and in the experience of our citizens and let us make them part of our law .
madam president , i do not underestimate the very important ambition of establishing a community of humanitarian values or the fact that civil , political and social rights have been placed on a par for the first time in this type of text .
there is a significant gap between our initial ambitions and what we have actually achieved .
it is , of course , possible to highlight this or that article , to welcome the genuine progress made in affirming a number of new rights relating to developments in our societies or in reaffirming crucial fundamental rights .
finally , precisely because the decision on the charter is a major political decision , i am with those members of the house that think it premature for parliament to declare its opinion today .
madam president , the draft european parliament resolution on the charter of fundamental rights has the same ambiguous foundation as the work of the body itself .
we will find out at a later date , after nice , no doubt .
there are two aspects in this process which i find fascinating .
tomorrow , however , the court of justice is going to be able to interpret these rights in detail and the court ' s case law is going to be applied in a standardised fashion throughout europe , depriving each national democracy of its right of autonomous decision .
madam president , this year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the european convention on human rights .
madam president , in answer to the question as to whether parliament should participate in the official promulgation of the charter i would simply say ' no ' .
apart from the substantive problems already raised today , merely having national parliamentarians on board is no substitute for an in-depth debate of constitutional questions by the national parliaments .
i would also advise the house not to misconstrue the instrument of the convention as a deus ex machina of the european union .
the charter of fundamental rights has always been a priority for this parliament , because it has wanted the principles and values that unite europeans to be reflected in a text .
this is particularly important at the present time , when we are beginning an ambitious process of enlargement .
the second reason is because the charter of fundamental rights is an essential factor in the move towards political union .
thirdly , mr president , and surely this is the most important reason , because a charter of fundamental rights is going to increase the feeling of belonging to the european union .
moreover , this charter reflects the opinion of parliament , as we set it out in our duff / voggenhuber resolution on 16 march .
the charter has been drawn up with the participation of a delegation from parliament and , as chairman of this delegation , i would like to thank all its members for their work , their commitment and their support over all these months .
it is true , as one of the speakers said , that we have to make an effort to inform people about the charter , an effort that can begin in this parliament .
when listening to the speeches from some members , one realises that this information is more necessary than ever .
mr president , allow me to say a few words on the effects of the charter .
i think that the reference to article 6 is logical and i think that the president-in-office of the council should take note of what mr baron crespo said .
the chairman of the group to which the majority of governments in the european union belong said quite clearly that parliament - or in any event , his group - will not approve the reform of the treaty of nice if no reference is made in article 6 .
if you read the report of the three wise men on the situation in austria , you will see that the charter is mentioned on three occasions .
this report was drawn up between 29 august and 6 september , when the charter had still not been drafted .
therefore , the charter , whether or not it is included in the treaties , whether or not it is in article 6 ( 2 ) , will bind the commission - and i would like to highlight the important work done by commissioner vitorino in drawing up the charter - will bind parliament and will bind the council , and it will have effects , mr president , whether some members of this house like it or not .
this is a charter that brings together rights that belong to no party and to every party .
it is a fusion of existing european values in a contemporary and imaginative way .
all sections of the house who are interested in the development of the european union should welcome that .
it is also , the commission points out , contemporary because it deals with issues such as bioethics , genetic engineering and data protection as well as access to information .
secondly , to say to the institutions : you have a duty , that is expressed in this charter , to deal with the citizens in a certain way .
i agree with colleagues who say the court is not going to ignore a charter that has been proclaimed solemnly by the three institutions : the commission , the council and parliament .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , a charter for europe and for the citizens of the european union is a fine thing .
i say this as a federalist , well aware that that the principle we shall have to refer to one day will be the principle of subsidiarity in order to attain greater freedom for the peoples of europe , including my own people , the people of the val d 'aosta , which has always encouraged federalism in italy and in europe .
in order to provide an international guarantee for the linguistic minorities , we have to make progress in terms of a genuine european constitution .
what prevented the achievement of both results is , minister , the same thing that will prevent the achievement of a satisfactory outcome in terms of democracy and effectiveness at nice : the obligation to reach unanimity on every single part of the text .
those who are more backward and more reactionary have , once again , triumphed over those who are fighting to see fundamental rights applied to all people and for an effective , legally binding response to new issues such as the risks of science , the rights of the new citizens , the right to a healthy environment etc .
this charter on social rights is a step backwards compared to the laws of many of the member states and , thanks precisely to the referrals to these laws , it will serve as a tool to alter them or limit their effectiveness .
i only hope that it will not be incorporated into the treaties and that movements calling for a fairer europe , in which there is a genuine increase in solidarity , will flourish in civil society , in the trade unions and in political organisations .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , today , with the charter of fundamental rights , parliament is marking a new , important stage in the european union 's journey , towards a more united and - i hope - fairer and more honest europe .
mr president , in the recommendation which is the subject of this debate parliament approves the charter of fundamental rights of the european union .
but this charter is clearly aimed at furthering the ever-closer union of the peoples of europe .
the charter fills a gap in ec law and strengthens the individual ' s protection against infringements by european police , by authorities which combat fraud and by authorities which regulate competition .
how , otherwise , will a legal area of 500 million people be able to operate ?
the charter constitutes a balanced and solid basis for enlargement .
i repeat , this charter turns the union into a community of rights ; it is a step forwards in the process of constitutionalisation of the union and it is the first international document to contain , according to the principle of the indivisibility of fundamental rights , civil and political rights , economic and social rights and new rights , all together .
it is on the basis of formulae such as these articles that , in time , our law-courts guaranteed our fundamental rights .
no , the words which embody our principles , our values and our fundamental rights are powerful if we embrace them and apply them to our civil lifestyles .
mr president , i have long been among the sceptics .
if we really want to reinforce human rights at european level , we ought instead to employ our energy on strengthening the work of the council of europe and on having the eu ratify the european convention on human rights and the corresponding conventions on cultural and social rights , instead of slowly developing a system to compete with the council of europe , as we are now in the process of doing .
for the first time since the european union was established we have here the basis of a constitution , a constitution for the supranational structure that is the european union .
my third observation concerns the rights of citizens from third countries .
mr president , it was a great honour to be able to work with my colleagues in the european parliament and from the national parliaments on drawing up this charter .
we would like to thank roman herzog and inigo mendez de vigo for steering the convention to such outstanding effect and we sincerely hope that the charter will be endorsed in nice with the signature of our president nicole fontaine .
it is a demonstration for a social and democratic europe of the citizens .
for a start , they must incorporate an amendment to article 6 of the eu treaty .
mr president , national constitutions either fail to incorporate social fundamental rights , individual freedom rights and environmental protection or do so to an unsatisfactory extent .
for some rights it will even mean a retrograde step .
in the meantime , the draft charter can serve as an interesting subject for debate amongst the parties , trade unions , environmental organisations , churches and the many other groupings in the member states and the candidate states of the union , regarding future cooperation between european nations .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , power requires control .
i , for one , am delighted that , for a variety of reasons , the union has not acceded to the convention on human rights as it stands , the charter which we shall be voting for today - i hope by a large majority - , will clearly afford us better protection of our fundamental rights which is more in keeping with the times than acceding to the european convention on human rights would have done .
the solemn proclamation must pave the way for binding european constitutional law .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , first of all i wish to associate myself with the congratulations quite rightly heaped on all those who participated in the convention , especially mr mendez de vigo and my colleague , mrs pervenche beres .
i wish to focus on three points that have already been raised by other members here this morning .
secondly , i wish to focus on the binding nature of this charter .
the european public would not understand if europe were to move faster in making improvements to the market and the currency but more slowly in effectively establishing its rights of citizenship and its basic rights .
thirdly , i wish to emphasise , as has already been done , that the nice conclusions and , specifically , the revision of the treaty , should include this reference to the charter of fundamental rights in article 6 ( 2 ) .
that is why , once again , we urge and insist that the presidency should be able to exercise the role of teacher towards its peers in the council .
however , as has been pointed out many times , the text does not have the legal status of a treaty .
the final objective is to establish a european constitution , a fundamental law for a union , which cannot stop at simply having a single currency but must become a political entity with genuinely common foreign and defence policies , an interlocutor on a par with the united states which will be able to take up the great challenge of globalisation in which the countries of the continent of asia are also set to become protagonists in the coming years , starting with china .
the text which we are going to adopt today , parts of which , being the result of a compromise - as president poettering said - fail to satisfy us , must be instrumental in triggering a large-scale debate on the future and on the future european constitution .
the charter of fundamental rights must confer binding legal status upon the rights and establish the levels of responsibility of the union , the states and the regions , and it must bear the people 's seal of approval .
in the conviction that the europe of the future must increasingly safeguard individual rights and the rights of the family and that it must prevent the return of new forms of racism and anti-semitism , the members of forza italia and the european people 's party will vote for the recommendation accompanying the charter of fundamental rights .
mr president , first and foremost , i want to say thank you to the participants in the convention , both from parliament and from the commission and the council .
the charter we are to approve today both strengthens and gives visible shape to the common fundamental rights and values our community is to be based upon .
it is important that these two bodies should not lose their authority .
i believe that adopting the charter in nice will be a powerful signal to certain applicant countries of the seriousness with which the eu regards respect for the fundamental freedoms .
this is the most modern fundamental rights document in the world today and it really does deserve our special appreciation .
as far as i can see , the convention has extracted everything worth its weight in fundamental rights from over 31 legal sources .
within europe , the european citizen knows that europe is now not just an economic entity ; within the candidate countries , no country will be able to aspire to join the european union without ensuring that its national legal system adheres to the principles of the charter ; and finally , on the world scale , this is the message sent out by europe .
there are , however , other effects , particularly on our internal legal system .
once adopted by this house , the charter of fundamental rights will serve as a benchmark for my report and , as far as i can with my own personal and intellectual resources and those of the people assisting me , i shall carry out an evaluation , right by right and country by country , of the extent to which the charter is respected in the fifteen countries of the european union .
for instance , in the area of criminal law the abrogation of the right to extradite fugitives to countries which allow the death penalty could mean that europe becomes a sanctuary for american murderers .
this charter is not only potentially damaging but unnecessary given the fact that we already have the european convention on human rights which was supported in 1950 by the great conservative , winston churchill , and articles 6 and 7 of the treaty of amsterdam .
we have witnessed the hypocrisy in this house when the left-wing were not prepared to support my motion on the italian royal family 's rights being restored .
mr president , with the vote on the charter we are setting off once again along the road towards a european constitution .
i should just like to stress two points which the commission sees as essential .
the principle that political , economic and social rights are indivisible cannot be seen as a minor matter or a way of settling accounts with the past .
the principle of the indivisibility of fundamental rights is a political compromise with regard to the future , especially at a time when some people think that untrammelled globalisation or the hegemony / dominance of the financial markets must be guaranteed by sacrificing citizens ' social rights .
it is subject only to the key concept of the worth of the human being within the construction of europe in the first place , and secondly to a certain vision of the social model , a social model in which solidarity and respect for fundamental rights are compatible with economic competitiveness at world level .
this is an important amalgamation at a time when the european union is required to define the legal status , in terms of rights and duties , of third country nationals legally resident within the european union .
i see it as a foundation stone providing a basis for social development , even insofar as its legal status is concerned .
i think the objective of ensuring the indivisibility of fundamental rights is critical , and that the council , the commission and parliament should make special efforts to publish and distribute the charter among european citizens , but i am quite sure that , above and beyond the political instructional quality of the charter , its legal impact is going to make itself felt , particularly with regard to the institutions proclaiming it .
i am convinced that the commission , the council and parliament itself will not be able to ignore the charter of fundamental rights of the european union when acting , in future , in a legislative or executive capacity .
in this respect i am disappointed to hear the criticisms of legal activism which have been made , as i , in fact , wonder whether the greatest incentive to activism is not specifically provided by article 6 ( 2 ) of the treaty , which refers to the vague , abstract concept of the shared constitutional tradition of the fifteen member states , instead of referring to a charter containing 48 clear , readable articles .
finally , you are aware that the commission is of the opinion that the convention has drawn up a text which is destined , sooner or later , to be incorporated into the treaties .
it is destined to be incorporated in to the treaties and the commission thinks this should be fully realised as part of the reorganisation of the treaties we proposed at the intergovernmental conference , which we hope the european council will be able to approve in nice .
listening to this debate , i am pleased to see what appears to be a clear majority in parliament in favour of this text , even if there a number of you still have to be won over .
the charter therefore , i am convinced , properly belongs to the political acquis communautaire .
it was a clear-cut choice between either a substantial text which was liable not to be binding in the short term or a text which perhaps had some chance of being binding in the short term but which would have lost any content .
the commissioner has just mentioned the spirit in which the charter was drawn up , with a view to its being made , one day , a binding text .
never in the history of european construction has the principle of transparency been applied with such determination and with such success .
let me remind you that etuc , for example , representing 60 million employees in europe , was consulted , that several hundred ngos were consulted , that citizens had the opportunity to simply submit their contributions and that some of their proposals were adopted by the convention .
the convention chose to include fundamental rights inspired by various texts of the council of europe , the treaties and member state constitutions .
the human rights included in the charter are powerful ones .
the charter affirms the social values of european construction .
it also most forcefully affirms the equality of men and women in all areas , as well as the principle of non-discrimination .
the point i wanted to make in mentioning all this is that nice is a vital stage .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
this is the spirit in which the preparatory work for this report was carried out within the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , and i should like , at this point , to thank all my fellow members for the contribution they made towards finalising this report , which , like the commission , concludes that turkey does not currently fulfil the copenhagen criteria .
we must applaud the remarkable efforts turkey has made , since the helsinki decision , in devising a programme to develop its judicial framework in order to meet eu demands in a more satisfactory manner , with particular regard to human rights .
however , we must also note and acknowledge that an awareness of the importance of these reforms has caused considerable upheavals in the various political parties and in turkish public opinion .
lengthy debates will be needed , both in the european parliament and in the national parliaments , and that is why it is generally accepted that the road will be long and difficult .
the european parliament will have to tell its turkish partners very clearly in the debates in that forum that they need have no fear of any european desire to interfere in their internal affairs and that , on the contrary , it is proposing a contract , the precise details of which are being thrashed out , in the accession partnership , commissioner , and , of course , in the convention on the charter of fundamental rights .
as matters stand , it is also up to the european parliament to tell the turkish people that there are , today , at least three conditions for accession which turkey must meet .
firstly , the need for identity must be respected : this need has been demonstrated particularly clearly in europe by its citizens who wish to preserve their origins in the face of the ineluctable progress of globalisation .
it is in this spirit that it is prepared to help turkey find a solution to the kurdish problem in particular .
finally , since the fight against terrorism may now be deemed to be over , the influence of the turkish army in the drawing up of political decisions should be gradually reduced .
in 1987 , parliament acknowledged the armenian genocide .
this would run counter to the spirit and the letter of the process defined in copenhagen for all candidate countries .
the council is proposing with unanimity that turkey should join the group of recipients of guarantees , and parliament ' s committee on budgets is also unanimous in this .
through its application for membership , turkey has given the union the right to adopt a position on its internal affairs .
besides , conditions could not have been imposed exclusively by a decision of the european parliament .
i would like to focus attention on how little parliament is able to influence the work of the european investment bank and how badly the european union monitors that work in general .
in the european parliament we would in general like to impose conditions on european investment bank loans as far as environmental considerations and the social protection of the citizens of non-member countries are concerned , and , in the case of turkey , this also concerns a respect for human rights .
the problems associated with the monitoring and examination of the management of the european investment bank also stem from the fact that there are only representatives of the member states in its governing body , and some of them want to prevent the commission and the european parliament from taking a stand on bank matters .
i am , of course , thinking of the work undertaken within the association council with a view to bringing turkish legislation into line with the acquis communautaire .
i have noted reservations on the part of many people , not just within the european parliament , but also in all the member states .
we all agree that negotiations cannot in any case commence , let me stress that fact , until turkey has met the copenhagen political criteria in full .
we are indeed all aware , yourselves , the council presidency and also , i believe , the commission , whose latest report on the progress achieved in turkey stressed once again the efforts this country still needs to made , the reforms still to be implemented in areas as crucial as respect for human rights , fundamental freedoms and minority rights , in particular , areas in which , as we can only regret , progress is still too slow and even inadequate .
that is why , in the same spirit , the european union must fulfil the commitments it has made with regard to this country , which i think it imperative to meet , particularly in terms of financial aid .
the french presidency has made this one of its objectives and i believe we are making progress .
this house has , of course , on several occasions been invited to give an opinion on this matter , be it the meda programme or the financial regulations proposed by the commission to ensure euro-turkish rapprochement and to support the customs union , but there are also the european investment bank projects , which are essential in order to support turkey ' s economic development and to continue the reconstruction work undertaken following the earthquake .
for its part , the presidency would like to see this special action programme of eib loans adopted by the council very soon , probably as early as the forthcoming meeting of the council of ministers of economic and financial affairs on 27 november .
i would add that we are all awaiting with keen interest the proposal announced by the commission for a single regulation intended to coordinate all sources of community aid to turkey , in line with the plans made in helsinki .
parliament will , of course , have the opportunity to deliver an opinion on this matter , when the time comes .
as you know , however , this pre-accession aid will be more particularly intended to help turkey achieve the objectives laid down in the future accession partnership agreement .
this is a key instrument in the pre-accession strategy for this country , and its importance was rightly highlighted in the recent commission report .
this is a proposal which is going to be examined in detail by the competent council bodies , so you will understand that i cannot , in my capacity as president-in-office of the council , afford to pre-judge the situation .
the presidency ' s preference is for this draft to be adopted very quickly , indeed , if possible , as early as 20 november , the date of the forthcoming general affairs council , and , as i have already mentioned , for it to comply with the very specific decisions adopted in helsinki .
it will then be up to turkey to take its inspiration from this in order to work out its own national programme to integrate the acquis and in order to implement the reforms , all the reforms necessary , with the support of the european union .
let us be demanding , let us be vigilant , but at the same time , let us remain consistent with the logic of our decision , making a bet on turkey , having confidence in its determination for rapprochement with the european union , and let us therefore assist turkey to boost its ability to implement the necessary reforms which we quite legitimately expect of the country .
as you know , not only has the commission recently submitted the progress report for the year 2000 ; it has also proposed an accession partnership for the very first time in the history of our relations .
this draft resolution highlights our common objective of bringing turkey closer to the european union .
we can already see that the helsinki process has set a series of interesting and important developments in motion .
the most important thing , as far as i am concerned , is that helsinki triggered a debate in turkey , a public debate on the conditions of turkey 's accession to the eu , a debate which is supporting and bolstering the forces of reform in turkey .
for example , the human rights committee in the turkish national assembly has reported on torture in turkey and the turkish government has passed a resolution to bring the turkish constitution and the turkish legal system into line with the values of the european union .
i think that the accession partnership which we have tabled is the best way of supporting this process and of ensuring that the european union is able to exert the necessary influence on the process itself .
i have stressed time and again in my contacts with the turkish government that the european union expects turkey to give a firm undertaking that it will take action to implement these reform objectives .
as a possible contribution to this , the commission has proposed that the european investment bank grant turkey a line of credit of eur 450 million , to be used mainly to improve the competitiveness of the turkish economy on the internal market .
i am delighted that you will be exchanging views on this question with your turkish counterparts in the joint parliamentary committee next week .
i also welcome the proposals in this report on stepping up parliamentary cooperation and strengthening civil society .
here we are talking about establishing a special programme to consolidate the customs union , extending the mandate of the european investment bank so that it can cover new loans to turkey in the 2000-2004 period amounting to eur 450 million .
given that this special programme of eur 450 million , of which the european union is guaranteeing 65 % , specifies that at a provisioning rate of 9 % only eur 26 million will have to be transferred from the reserve to the guarantee fund , there will only be a budgetary impact in the event of a default , because in that case the guarantee would have to be called in .
with these loans from the european investment bank we are supporting investment in turkish industry and in its infrastructures in terms of transport , energy and telecommunications .
the fundamental issue of turkey ' s accession continues to be a political issue and it is the responsibility of other parliamentary committees .
customs union and the loans from the european investment bank have been operating with turkey for many years .
the aim now is to give the boost that is needed towards future accession .
i repeat that the only serious problems that we could have would occur if the macro-financial aid promised reached the maximum amount established , as in this hypothesis the residual reserve for guarantees would be reduced to practically zero for 2001 and 2002 .
let us remember that it is in the interests of the european union to fund nuclear safety projects in third countries in the framework of euratom .
a zero level of residual reserve could lead to definite problems in funding those investments .
the general situation that the report sets out is part of a situation of parliament / council negotiation for the 2001 budget , in which the european parliament wishes to extend its rights to information and consultation in the case of external commitments by the union that have a financial impact .
even if parliament is critical and even if parliament is perhaps more critical than the council and the commission can ever be , we trust that turkey will choose this way forward and will become a member of the european union just as soon as it has put its house in order .
we will resist the efforts , some of them fairly spurious , to upset the balance the report successfully achieves , especially those amendments which seek to set up the european parliament as a tribunal upon the past .
the morillon report and the accession to partnership commit the european union to turkey 's candidature .
in the first place , it is clear that the strategy of accepting turkey ' s candidature was the right one .
it was the correct strategy , as the commissioner commented , because the debate which has taken place in turkey today in order for it to become a member of the european union is tantamount to a debate in favour of radical reform of the political situation in the country .
on this subject we have to tell turkey that its refusal to accept the rulings of the european court of justice in strasbourg cannot be tolerated .
turkey must without further ado fall in line with the rulings of the european court of justice as a token of acceptance of international relations as defined by us , and not just by them .
some are in favour of the candidature and the accession of turkey , and want this candidature to involve a radical reform of turkish society .
turkish society obviously perceives this contradictory attitude .
there is another matter , and if we have to vote on it today , the majority of my group will vote in favour of this resolution .
i am not certain , personally , that this is a useful move , because i wish to take the debate to turkey .
in other words , i propose that the european parliament should itself hold a debate on the armenian genocide , the majority will follow on and we shall continue the debate in turkey .
mr morillon , in my view , your report is an exceptionally realistic and responsible report .
we have indeed seen a number of interesting symbolic acts on the part of the turkish government since the helsinki council resolution several months ago .
however , nothing has been done to change the horrendous situation in turkish jails , discrimination against the kurds or turkey 's policy on cyprus .
turkey 's membership on this basis , rather than for the geo-strategic reasons put forward by the usa or nato , would enrich the european union and represent a significant step towards a united europe .
in my experience - the experience , i may add , of a life which knows just as much about radical social change as the refusal to recognise the need for it in time - , there is no substitute for critical candour .
but , in my book , the commission report is a real step backwards .
europe ' s borders are now peaceful but , if turkey does one day join the european union , europe will have a new border ; not just an extra-european border , but a border of war and conflict .
lastly i do not feel that questions have been asked concerning the size of the actual population represented by turkey ' s candidacy and the difficulties that this will cause , not only in terms of the union ' s geography but especially in terms of the already delicate balance between large , medium-sized and small member states .
i shall conclude as i began : the idea and purpose of my speech have been to draw attention to the fact that changes on this scale should not take place without a democratic , ongoing debate , otherwise the deficit in citizenship and participation that many europeans feel with regard to the model of european construction will continue to grow .
mr president , the morillon report in itself provides a perfect illustration of the basic contradictions in the european attitude to turkey .
so the only real preamble which we should all be bound by is a recital taking into consideration the obvious facts of the situation .
turkey must not , therefore , join the european union .
we cannot play about with the dignity of nations .
we shall therefore vote against this report , just as we have voted against all the reports seeking to make turkey a member of the european union .
mr president , is turkey really ready to solve internal and overseas problems such as the conflict over cyprus and the minorities issue , to the satisfaction of the european union ?
turkey ' s former foreign minister , mumtaz soysal , recently put this pressing question .
mr president , with your permission i would like to briefly take up three fundamental points in mr morillon ' s report : the political influence exerted by the turkish army , the kurdish question and the aspect referred to earlier of ' tolerance for other religions and cultures ' .
the problems are so serious as to preclude turkey 's accession in the foreseeable future .
we aim to help turkey become a free democratic country in which the rule of law prevails .
i would stress that in entrusting this huge power of monitoring the european databases to a monocratic body - notwithstanding the total respect and confidence which we have in the guarantor - we would appear to have momentarily shifted our focus from the central concern of the human person which , in respect of the power of information technology , must be provided with a reference framework of guaranteed rights and freedoms .
in my opinion , the proposal to establish a collegiate body would have responded better to this need .
what is more , it does not go so far as the french legislation on computer technology and freedoms .
finally , citizens must be given the means to protect their own privacy themselves by allowing a free choice of encryption in data transmission .
i welcome this report and will vote for it .
duff / voggenhuber recommendation ( a5-0325 / 2000 ) madam president , how could the pensioners ' party not vote for the charter of fundamental rights ?
it is the first document of such importance in the whole world to contain an article - article 25 - entitled ' the rights of the elderly ' , which reads : " the union recognises and respects the rights of the elderly to lead a life of dignity and independence and to participate in social and cultural life " .
the charter therefore has no binding force upon countries whose legislation does not go quite so far as the minimum contained in the charter .
in countries whose legislation is more favourable to workers , however , the charter may be cited to oppose the national legislation in courts of law .
madam president , i did not take part in the vote on the charter of fundamental rights because i do not agree with the procedure : parliament has been unable to propose any amendments either to the text of the charter or even to the text of the recommendation .
the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is a far cry from the declaration of human rights of the un , the european convention on human rights and the constitutions of many member states of the european union .
those who dreamed up this charter are banking on using this weighty document to pursue their aggressive policy against everything the working classes have fought , sacrificed and died for over the past 150 years .
the rights contained in the charter are already included in national constitutions and safeguarded by national parliaments close to the nations of europe and their cultures .
moreover , the charter is a compromise based on the lowest common denominator , which will be detrimental to social advantages acquired by law in a good number of european member states .
the right to housing , for example , has been reduced to the right to " housing assistance " , while the right to work has been replaced by the " right of access to placement services " .
articles establishing new obligations without justification .
article 19 ( 1 ) , for example , states that " collective expulsions are prohibited " but does not specify that this ban may be suspended in the event of war or serious internal public order disturbances .
as a third example of this , article 45 states that " freedom of movement and residence may be granted to nationals of third countries legally resident in the territory of a member state " , even though the law to this effect , as contemplated by article 62 of the treaty establishing the european community , is not currently in force , and perhaps never will be if the conditions are not met .
this applies particularly to the economic and social rights listed in chapter iv of the charter .
article 24 , on the rights of the child , even fails to say , once again in spite of our requests , that every child has the right to live with his or her parents .
for instance , the new requirement for non-discrimination on grounds of language , found in articles 21 and 22 , contradicts the french constitution which stipulates that the language of the republic of france is french .
articles obfuscating or distorting the charter .
in the same vein , i have mentioned 52 ( 2 ) which claims that the meaning and scope of the rights in the charter shall be the same as those in the european convention on human rights .
ratifying the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms would be one of the most ambitious steps ever taken by the european union .
the charter will involve the european court of justice in a number of political decisions , in fields as diverse as employment law , extradition policy , immigration and the family .
the right of a government arbitrarily to set aside its own constitution is the defining characteristic of a tyranny .
human rights are already respected in the eu , and safeguarded by national constitutional provisions according to the different customs of the member states .
the debate on this charter has been eagerly applauded by eu federalists who wish to see it as the beginning of a constitution for the european union .
it is in danger of undermining the council of europe ' s work on human rights and of leading to a situation in which human rights are dealt with in different ways in european countries in the future .
it is an extremely positive outcome both for the french presidency of the european union and for the european parliament .
we must ensure that the existing rights flowing from the european convention on human rights , and supported by the decision of the european court of human rights in strasbourg , are not diminished or brought into confusion .
the debate on this charter has been eagerly applauded by eu federalists who wish to see it as the beginning of a constitution for the european union .
it is in danger of undermining the council of europe ' s work on human rights and of leading to a situation in which human rights are dealt with in different ways in european countries in the future .
article 17 very reticently states that " the use of property may be regulated " in the general interest .
there is , however , no mention of social obligations relating to the right to property .
however , what worries us most is that the twin-track jurisdiction of the european court of justice and the european court of human rights will give rise to inconsistent case law , resulting in the unequal treatment of citizens in these sensitive areas , in breach of their fundamental rights .
the original idea behind the convention was to have a text adopted by consensus which could subsequently be made binding by the fifteen member state governments when it was incorporated into the treaties .
if citizens are to feel involved in the european union , its policies and institutions , then it is up to the members of parliament in particular to disclose more of the critical decisions , the contradictions , the divergent interests and projects driving the economic and social operators within the european arena .
we need better european legislation to improve the quality of life for all and to improve social welfare systems .
there is no right to work , just the " right to engage in work " ; there is no right to social protection or accommodation , just " the right to social assistance and housing assistance " ; there is no right to a retirement pension or a minimum income ; there is no ban on redundancies , just the " right to protection against unjustified dismissal " .
given that only have two options , my decision is unequivocally to vote in favour of the step forward which this charter represents , however small that step forward may be in terms of the content and scope of the text .
at this time when debate in the institutions of europe is being undertaken concomitantly with the charter being adopted , all those men and women who , like myself , would like a european constitution and consider that this charter may serve as the bare bones for the preamble to such a constitution should demand that the european parliament be enabled to vote on the content , as part of its normal parliamentary business , which is basically deliberative .
this is therefore the first priority : we must give this charter real legal force .
secondly , the right to work is not directly stated .
the difference between not prohibiting access to work and taking action to make it possible to work is more than just a shade of meaning .
the charter should have clearly stated the right to work , and indeed the right to housing , which was also expressed in a roundabout way , affording little protection .
the charter must be improved , and the european parliament must propose a strategy enabling it to be updated and enriched . .
in addition , it is confusing from the legal perspective , as a result of which the powers of the european court of human rights in strasbourg are in competition with those of the european court of justice in luxembourg .
unless it is amended in such a way as to shift the emphasis to social fundamental rights and the environment , i will be unable to vote in favour of adopting the charter . . ( de ) the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is an important step towards defining the general , common values of the european union .
it has already been assumed that the charter might form the basis for a european constitution .
that makes including fundamental social rights even more important . 2 .
it should not therefore be decided and proclaimed at the council summit in nice ; on the contrary , the summit should prompt a european debate on the charter .
i voted for the charter of fundamental rights as a declaration of intent .
there will be no shift in the balance of power between the eu and member states .
we are very familiar with the position held by the majority in this parliament .
we understand their position when they try to give a qualitatively diverse political meaning to a text on fundamental rights , which is not only vague and all-encompassing , but is also going to be of arguable usefulness in an eu that has no serious shortcomings , either in the legal status of its rights or in the way in which these rights are defended and implemented .
the great political debate on the charter will therefore take place firstly between national governments and then , eventually , when this parliament is confronted with their decision .
in the debate in this chamber today , regarding the charter of fundamental human rights , the commission representative stated that this charter was a first step toward a legally binding document .
these statements confirm the concerns expressed within my country that this charter is intended to be the preamble to a european constitution .
established as " a body " by the cologne summit , it declared itself a " convention " , a name with unfortunate connotations of 1793 when the french revolution degenerated into the reign of terror under another " convention " .
the basic right to a nation , which was also demanded and which is also fundamental , was also censored .
ultimately there is nothing european about the text of the charter .
as it stands , it could be adopted by just about any country in the whole world .
the value of the content of such an exercise , quite apart from its illegitimacy , given that the european union has no jurisdiction in the field of human rights , cannot clearly be seen since , in europe , our freedoms are protected remarkably well by the founding texts of our nations and by the european convention on human rights .
pensioners are in favour of strengthening criminal law , european law especially , as well as national law , for i am afraid that crimes are no longer committed solely by our citizens but by people of other nationalities as well .
these texts have two points in common .
firstly , they are mutually complementary , extending europol ' s competence , setting up a provisional judicial cooperation unit , improving reciprocal assistance in judicial matters between member states and defining more clearly the conditions for the fight against money laundering which is the result , or the cause , or in any case a necessary component in a great many very serious crimes .
next , these texts are all based on initiatives by member states , coming under either the third pillar of article 67 of the treaty establishing the european community , where the commission does not have the monopoly on the right of initiative .
moreover , it is developing forms of cooperation that give greater respect to national sovereignty , as is shown by the initiative of the french republic dealt with in the roure report , which manages to reconcile mutual assistance in judicial matters and respect for the key interests of the member states .
we supported these initiatives in general , except where the european parliament amendments were tending to introduce too much of a federalist bias .
the arguments put forward by the european parliament are completely fallacious .
the fact is , this house wishes to interfere with everything but draws the line at supporting the decisions which nonetheless lie at the heart of the responsibilities of states in order to protect their own peoples .
the council ' s common position has not been officially recognised .
the report under discussion today is a direct result of the commitment made at the european council in tampere , in october 1999 , to combat this scourge of money laundering which amounts to between 2 and 5 % of the world ' s gdp every year .
we have had proposals , firstly , to extend europol ' s competence to cover money laundering - the karamanou report - and , secondly , for a raft of measures to improve international cooperation in the field of mutual assistance in criminal matters - the roure report .
the marinho report now seeks to extend the principle of the mutual recognition of national measures for the identification , tracing , freezing , seizing and confiscation of instrumentalities and the proceeds from crime , established by the joint action 98 / 699 / jha in 1998 , to decisions in the pre-court phase , especially those enabling the competent authorities to take rapid action to obtain evidence and seize easily transportable assets .
i welcome this report .
special action against money laundering was proposed in tampere in 1999 .
the right to property appears almost to be sacrosanct .
it sometimes seems as though this objective takes precedence over the fight against white-collar crime .
in practice , such cooperation could primarily be deployed , once in a while , for purposes other than the fight against money laundering .
money laundering feeds the trade in drug-trafficking .
we welcome the french presidency 's initiative aimed at improving cooperation between national authorities responsible for tackling money laundering and laying down uniform penalties .
all member states should treat money laundering as a criminal offence carrying a minimum sentence of four years ' imprisonment .
this will be an important tool in allowing criminals to be tried across europe .
these measures drafted by socialist meps are an important step in combating international crime and i urge the house to support these reports .
karamanou report ( a5-0312 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the karamanou report , whose objective is also of major importance : the creation of a european police office .
however , it is vital that national parliaments and the european parliament have access to information on europol 's activities in order to ensure political accountability and that there is a role for the european court to ensure judicial accountability .
we also support the future establishment of a convention to help combat organised crime and money laundering , and the various measures proposed in order to achieve those purposes .
the idea of creating an area of freedom , security and justice in europe is , obviously , an aspiration that we share .
we feel that the strict limitation of the reasons for which the member states may refuse to provide judicial cooperation solely to " essential interests , " thus excluding the notions of sovereignty , public order and national security in force up until now is a step forward , but is still inadequate .
this is mainly because we still find it unacceptable for a state to be able to invoke a " general interest " in order to be able to deny judicial cooperation in criminal matters .
this shows , once again , that the member states have a long way to go in understanding the meaning of shared sovereignty .
moreover , i should point out , as a member representing basques and catalans , that there continues to be an emphasis on cooperation between states , without taking into account that in the eu other police forces operate that are not state bodies .
this report and , in general , the area of freedom , safety and justice in europe , is based on democracy and on the rule of law that should reign in the eu .
therefore , what most concerns me about the future of legal cooperation in the eu is that currently some states are proposing criminal reforms that are bordering on the violation of human rights .
specifically , this special legislation is considering sentences of up to ten years in prison for children of 14 years of age , not to mention other measures .
ladies and gentlemen , we are convinced that europe needs to construct the area of freedom , security and justice that we so often cite in our speeches .
the draft convention proposes that banking secrecy may not be used as a reason to refuse a request from another member state for information on somebody suspected of being involved in financial crime .
gebhardt report ( a5-0317 / 2000 ) madam president , this is a document - which i voted for - which is intended to establish gradually , step by step , a european public prosecution service .
in fact , a provisional cooperation unit is being set up , composed of a representative of the judges or police officers with equivalent competence from each of our 15 member states .
however , i would have hoped that this body would also have included representatives of the lawyers of each of the 15 states , for i feel that , at a time when we have to establish something new in the legal area , it would be beneficial to consult not only the judges who judge but also the lawyers , who have a great deal of experience in the field .
nor will such a system be able to solve the problems faced by the member states .
i should like today to highlight mr morillon 's call for a european-turkish discussion forum in the house and for a debate on turkey 's accession prospects in the national parliaments in our member states .
the initial euphoria of the council and commission has clearly waned .
consequently , there is even more need now , almost one year on from helsinki , for turkey 's accession prospects to be debated in our national parliaments and with our citizens .
when the eib grants loans to countries other than the member states , parliament ought also to be consulted about the political priorities to be set in what is a part of the bank ' s activity mainly motivated by foreign policy .
the kemalist ideology that was modern in 1930 is not so in 2000 .
hence my amendments on the need for a political solution for the kurdish people .
i hope parliament and the council will remedy that omission .
until there is a solution for the kurds there will be no fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria and i therefore call upon parliament to pass my amendments , and on the council and parliament to insist that a solution for the kurds is a key to unlocking the problems of turkey fulfilling the copenhagen criteria .
while there is a special relationship between azerbaijan and turkey , this is far from being the case for armenia , a country against which turkey is maintaining a commercial blockade , which is not acceptable in a country which has been accepted as a candidate for membership of the european union .
in this context , i would like to reiterate the basic conclusion in paragraph 22 that turkey does not meet the copenhagen criteria and draw attention both to the fact that turkey has been condemned on numerous occasions for acts and omissions in relation to human rights , democratic freedoms and its international attitude and to the european parliament 's recommendations that turkey comply with the relevant european values .
on the other hand , although paragraphs 9 , 10 , 12 and 17 expressly refer to infringements of these values by turkey on numerous occasions , especially by the turkish occupying army in cyprus , which turkey is called on to withdraw , the fact remains that it would have been preferable to roundly condemn turkey 's present and past responsibility for problems caused by its intransigence and the resultant impasse on the cyprus question - where , it should be noted , there are clear signs of turkey 's intention to provoke a new heated crisis - , its failure to abide by international conventions with its expansionist policy towards greece , its concealment of the historical truth of the armenian genocide and its disregard for the fundamental minority rights of the kurds .
this is the first serious step on the road towards turkey 's accession and the accession process can now move into the practical application stage .
i find them unseemly , ill-advised , untimely and inappropriate because these are amendments which use three words - " genocide , " " muslim " and " asian " - in a way that is racist , derogatory and discriminatory and which causes impenetrable and false barriers to be erected against turkey 's accession to the union .
indeed , the un convention of 1948 has not been broadened to include the armenian tragedy .
i welcome turkey 's careful progress towards the union and i support the commission and the morillon report .
the turkish parliamentarian , leyla zana , winner of the sakharov prize , and in prison since 1995 merely for haven spoken in kurdish within the turkish parliament , is still languishing in prison .
mr president , paragraph 17 of mr morillon ' s report states that the european parliament ' calls on the turkish government to withdraw its occupation forces from northern cyprus ' .
almost 40 per cent of cyprus is occupied by foreign troops in the form of turkish soldiers .
this means that , as a democratic state under the rule of law with separation of powers and fundamental values as we understand them , turkey will enrich the european union .
turkey will become an essentially democratic country once it learns to live with its past , just as democratic germany has learned to live with its past - we asked the same of it .
mr president , i should like to offer general morillon my warmest congratulations on his report , in which he has combined perceptiveness with clarity .
as you all know , our group was highly sceptical about turkey 's candidate status but we are delighted , now that turkey has candidate status , that it is on the ball and has decided to engage in a process of reform in order to meet the demands of the european union .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i should like to speak in this debate in my capacity as the author of the report on the accession of cyprus .
since both turkey and cyprus are candidates for membership of the european union , it is increasingly clear that a solution to the cypriot question is becoming a matter of internal policy .
commission verheugen has confirmed that the cyprus issue plays a very important part in the discussions currently being conducted with turkey .
paragraph 17 of our motion for a resolution explicitly calls for this .
one of the three conditions stipulated in the morillon report , a condition that the european parliament will be adopting , would still remain unfulfilled .
mr president , there is much in this resolution on turkey 's progress towards accession which is commendable - in particular the call to the commission to implement a properly resourced pre-accession strategy .
of course peoples of kurdish origins as well as other cultural and linguistic minorities must not be subjected to political , economic or other discrimination and must have the opportunity to express themselves freely , but this expression should be through entirely peaceful means and without intimidation and terrorism .
we should also be clear that the resolution of extraordinarily difficult problems such as cyprus , which requires the assent of all the people of cyprus , will not be helped by frustrating turkish progress towards accession .
in other words , we are talking about increasing the degree to which turkey is subject to the economic , political and military objectives of big business in the european union .
there are also positive references to cyprus , with the call for the occupying forces to be withdrawn , to the need to implement the decisions of the european court , as in the loizidou case , to the need for a political solution to the kurdish question and to the bombings in iraq .
for us , the basic issue is this : despite numerous allegations to the contrary , not only has turkey failed to improve the standard of living of its people , in certain sectors it has made it worse since customs union in 1995 and the declaration of candidate status in 1999 .
a number of speakers have expressed their concerns regarding the human rights situation and the treatment of minorities , particularly the kurdish question , the heavy involvement of the military in political life , the legal system and capital punishment , all of which are very serious issues .
we can but share these concerns , which were duly expressed by the commission in its last annual report .
president sezer has made a personal commitment to the process of modernisation in his country .
the strategy adopted in helsinki last december marked a turning point in relations between the european union and turkey .
it is within this balanced framework that we shall have to resolutely continue our work to promote rapprochement between the european union and turkey .
so , in conclusion , let me say : let us be demanding , let us be vigilant , let us set our terms but , let us not be excessive in our demands , as we too must live up to our commitments and the european union made an important decision in helsinki .
mr president , i should like to close the debate by pointing out that there is , of course , a link between the commission report on the progress that has been made , or not made , in turkey and the accession partnership .
the accession partnership per se is a very balanced document , based largely on the helsinki conclusions .
we are at the proposal stage and i am not in a position this afternoon to tell you if this project will get beyond the proposal stage , especially if parliament endorses proposals made here this morning and this afternoon .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
i should like to thank mr brok for allowing me to give an assessment of the current state of the european union ' s mediterranean policy since this is , as you know , the eve of the fourth conference of foreign ministers from the euro-mediterranean partnership , which is to be held in marseilles .
it is , moreover , the reason for our insistence on drawing up an assessment of the results of the first five years of implementation of the barcelona process , in order to be in a position , in marseilles , to establish the necessary guidelines .
mr brok referred to the common strategy on the mediterranean region , adopted in feira in june .
this , however , unlike the euro-mediterranean partnership , which unites the fifteen member states with twelve partners on the southern coast of the mediterranean , is an instrument for discipline within the union , to some extent , designed to intensify the coherence and coordination of all community instruments and member state policies with regard to the mediterranean region .
priorities for the implementation of this common strategy have already been established by the presidency and were presented to the council of ministers in september .
the presidency strove particularly to identify areas on which the european union and its partners of the southern mediterranean should concentrate their efforts in order to reinvigorate the barcelona process , particularly by intensifying political and economic dialogue , improving the effectiveness of community aid , the implementation of sub-regional cooperation and south-south integration , and even intensifying initiatives in the field of justice and home affairs .
this is indeed also our objective for the marseilles conference .
indeed , when we instigated the partnership in 1995 , we were aware that we were undertaking a long-term project .
there was plainly nothing easy about the task of bringing together , overnight , 27 partners as diverse as this against an often tense , and occasionally more than tense political background and within a framework as original as the barcelona arrangement .
you may rest assured that we fully intend to continue in this way .
and even if it is true that the economic aspect of barcelona is the one that , despite the delays , is working best , the main thing is that we must not lose sight of this overall approach , without which the process would be consigned to being nothing more than just another free trade area , lacking in political or human vision in the long term and this would be unfortunate .
our mediterranean partners are our direct neighbours .
great prospects are opening up , too , for cooperation in the areas of combating trafficking of all sorts , migration and enhancing the rule of law .
it is furthermore in our own interests to support our partners in their process of structural reforms , upgrading and opening up their economies to competition .
the challenges are such , the needs of the southern countries are so great that the resources of the european union will always appear to be inadequate , especially since the external commitments of the union have increased to an extraordinary degree in the last few years .
this is a debate which , as you know , we have had several times in the council ; a debate which i think i can say lies at the heart of the reform undertaken on the initiative of commissioner patten .
the fact remains that the council , particularly since 1995 , has striven to allocate more extensive resources to the mediterranean region , appropriate to the challenges of the partnership .
since 1995 the french presidency has made particular efforts in this regard , especially at the european council in cannes , where we succeeded in restoring balance between the funding for mediterranean policy and that properly allocated to the countries of central and eastern europe .
this is the spirit in which the meda i programme was launched with eur 3.4 billion committed between 1995 and 1999 .
we have already managed to agree on the arrangements for the meda ii financial regulation .
i feel that the instrument we shall have in future will be more effective , more speedy , more transparent and therefore , ultimately , more credible .
i feel that with an allocation of several billion euros for the mediterranean region over the period 2000-2007 , we shall be in a position to fulfil the expectations of our partner countries in the south over the next few years , and that is crucial .
in fact , it is no longer just a matter , as it was in 1995 , of restoring balance with eastern europe , but also of making ready for the future enlargement of the european union .
in our opinion , this is one more reason to emphasise the mediterranean dimension of a european union that wishes to be an actor on the world stage and for which the mediterranean region must and shall continue to be the ' uniting sea ' or in latin the ' mare nostrum ' .
i should like expressly to thank the french presidency of the council for endeavouring to give the necessary momentum to the barcelona process .
we in central europe must understand that the debate on the barcelona process is in our common interest , just as we expect southern europeans to understand that enlargement to central and eastern europe is in our common interest .
naturally , we hope that mr patten 's concept will succeed and that the commission will be able to implement these projects more quickly than has been the case in the past .
with proper economic and social prospects in place , there is a good chance of implementing human rights and democratising the community of states in the region .
the worrying developments which we have witnessed in many states in north africa in the past and , in fact , are still witnessing today , also come under this heading and i hope that we shall manage to bring all the countries of north africa on board in this process without any whys and wherefores .
the current situation in the middle east is making abundantly clear what measures are needed in the form of joint policies and cooperation .
i think that the european union has a special role to play here and that the countries and the people in these regions are waiting for the european union to exert its political influence because it can bring balance and credibility to bear there .
i trust that the fact that this political influence is expected and we are expected to play a part there will help to get things moving in marseilles and provide the necessary credibility , allowing us to make a contribution to peace in this region and enhance our own stability .
in the temporary , but wholly understandable , absence of my honourable friend at the beginning of this debate i was tempted to say that this would be like hamlet without the prince , but i am delighted that he is with us in order to contribute his wisdom and good sense to this extremely important debate which is taking place at the honourable member 's initiative .
many of us were delighted , even surprised , by the extent of the progress which seemed to have been made this summer at camp david and we gave a great deal of applause to president clinton and his administration for all they had done to move things forward .
nobody would seek to deny that the barcelona process and the middle east peace process are interconnected .
the breakthrough in euro-mediterranean relations at barcelona was made possible partly by the breakthrough at madrid and then the oslo accords .
we must not allow the barcelona process to become a hostage to the middle east peace process .
the commission has been encouraged by the generally positive reaction to the proposals that we set out on reinvigorating the barcelona process , both in the european union and among the mediterranean partners .
we in fact completed our negotiations with egypt almost 18 months ago and i wish that we could now rapidly proceed to initialling the agreement and then in due course to full signature .
i would also like to see us commencing more serious negotiations on association agreements with the other countries .
we want to see the bringing together of policies on single market issues and agreement to introduce cumulation of origin side-by-side with the sub-regional free trade arrangements for all partners entering into free trade with each other and adopting the harmonised protocol on rules of origin .
reaching agreement on a new regional programme on justice and home affairs covering migration in the widest sense , the fight against organised crime and cooperation on judicial matters is another subject on which we hope we can have a good exchange of views .
the revision of the meda regulation and the reform already announced of the commission 's external aid system will help to achieve this and will also lead to more human resources being available .
as far as human rights are concerned , we propose a structural approach looking at the performance of countries over time .
a country which has serious doubts raised about its record on human rights , democracy and the rule of law and is not prepared to discuss these matters transparently will not find it easy to fit into the new world pattern and it will be less likely to prosper in the longer term .
i just want to say one more thing about meda and the reform of our external aid which is relevant to debates which members are having elsewhere .
in order to ensure that we deliver more rapidly in the mediterranean and elsewhere in the world , we need - as members accept rationally and intellectually - more resources to actually manage our programmes and the commission has put forward what are sensible proposals for doing that .
there are some members who think that we should put those extra resources into the reserve until we have accomplished certain other objectives .
i say to members of parliament , in all good faith , that there comes a moment when you have to trust us and when you have to let us try to do the job , because we cannot conceivably implement our plans more effectively if the people we need to manage them are not made amiable until we have actually demonstrated that we can manage things more effectively .
it is an issue which is extremely important to all the mediterranean countries and i hope i will be able to assure them this week that it is our firm intention to do a great deal better in the delivery of our programmes in future .
i hope that all the ministers who gather in marseilles will recognise the need to agree on this set of realistic proposals to reinvigorate the barcelona process precisely now that the middle east is suffering serious difficulties .
we have committed in the past huge resources to this partnership .
we have not managed them as well as we should have done but we have committed huge resources and that reflects the priority which parliament , the commission and the council give to strengthening the partnership around our " middle sea . "
we welcome with great satisfaction the news that the commission intends to reinvigorate the barcelona process .
however , we feel that the events taking place in this area bordering on the european union are extremely important and that we need the undertakings and proposals outlined by commissioner patten just now to be more effectively implemented than has been the case in recent years .
therefore , should the financial provisions intended for the regions in question be changed , as the european parliament has requested , how will the commission adapt its interventions ?
mr president , five years on from the barcelona conference , it is time to take stock of the situation .
last march , the european parliament approved a resolution which made a critical analysis of the policies and instruments of the partnership , proposing some substantial changes .
in june 2000 , the feira council adopted a common mediterranean strategy and , after proposing and obtaining endorsement for reform of the meda regulation , the commission recently tabled a document on reinvigorating the barcelona process .
nevertheless , the process which commenced in barcelona , based on three pillars - political , economic and cultural - was subject to three constraints , now generally well recognised , and commissioner patten touched upon them in his speech .
i have stressed these aspects because they contain the key to reinvigorating the process , and the enhancement of the barcelona political agenda must be added to all this .
as regards agriculture , i would like to point out that parliament has undertaken to organise a conference next spring .
in fact , the council 's common strategy followed this line .
on the other hand , the euro-mediterranean ministerial conference , which is to open tomorrow in marseilles , is set against the backdrop of a tragic situation which will make europe 's role in the region even more sensitive and lead the union to assume a more substantial political role in the israel-palestine conflict .
the fact that , despite this situation , the 27 partners have confirmed their willingness to meet in marseilles , at least for the moment , is already in itself an indication that all is not lost , although i agree entirely with commissioner patten that the euro-mediterranean partnership policy must not become a hostage to the peace process .
the group of the europe liberal , democrat and reform party obviously supports the commission ' s actions in favour of a mediterranean policy , as outlined five years ago in barcelona , and we want it to be consolidated .
our priority must therefore be to ensure the peace and security of the european union in the mediterranean and we have to make every possible effort to achieve this cooperation and to ensure that the funds allocated are used efficiently , according to what we might call the selfish generosity of the european union .
mr president , we presented the meda report at the beginning of september , and while this report , admittedly , allowed us to note some shortcomings , it was also , more importantly , an opportunity to proclaim loud and clear the determination of both this house and the commission in euro-mediterranean matters .
commissioner patten , i read your article in today ' s issue of le monde .
the fact , moreover , that we carried the motion in this house , with the enormous majority of 502 votes in favour and a paltry 17 against , shows that we are all unanimously in favour of renewing and boosting the euro-mediterranean process .
there are a number of points i would like to clarify , now that the marseilles conference is about to take place , in order to ensure that we get some answers , as it is not enough to repeat ritualistic phrases , given that we are all in agreement .
it seems that at least eur 1 billion is needed annually , but for the moment this sum has not been allocated , and at the same time there is talk of eur 200 million to be taken , supposedly , from the margin relating to appropriations for kosovo and serbia .
the forum that was held in marseilles on 12 november made that quite clear .
next , we must increase the amount of appropriations for regional development in order to encourage relations and trade between regions , but also environmental protection , the fight against terrorism and drugs trafficking , emigration and integration , and to make progress towards human rights , as we have requested .
mr president , commissioner , i share the determination which has been expressed to give a new boost to the euro-mediterranean partnership forthwith .
the peoples of the south are often critical and are concerned about this failure .
i share their impatience , and even their disappointment and their anger , at the delays but also at the inadequacies of this partnership and at the initial damage it has caused .
there are still extreme disparities between the two sides of the mediterranean , which keep the peoples of the south in an explosive economic and social situation , with poverty and unemployment , particularly among young people .
the path leading to an area of shared prosperity has , for the time being , stopped at the association agreements , which are governed by strictly economic and financial interests in denial of the needs of the people .
the spiralling violence in the middle east , the war being waged so violently and resolutely against the palestinian people , whose right to statehood is still being denied by israel , are all threatening the future of the entire region .
these last few days in marseilles , i have observed the great numbers of speakers addressing such comments to the conference of ministers , speaking in favour of cancelling debt and replacing free trade with relations of mutually supportive codevelopment ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , the different areas of the euro-mediterranean dialogue must , in my opinion , be tackled from the social , political and cultural perspectives , in continuation of that process - the euro-mediterranean conference - which was set in motion in barcelona in 1995 when we first started to talk about mediterranean policy , although the complexity of the subject caused some difficulties even then .
this is prompting the europe of national states to form a single political , economic and commercial entity in order to organise and boost a market of over 350 million consumers and set it on a level with other markets .
europe 's economic progress is now under threat from the current globalisation process , and our continent is in serious danger of a recession caused by competition from south-east asia - where the cost of labour is a tenth of the cost of labour in europe - the usa and japan .
the mediterranean policy is now operating in a world of extremely varied interests and latent stabilisation , and it must therefore include certain elements such as the development of peace-keeping initiatives - but it must not , i would stress , be limited to this - and the creation of partnership projects which involve northern and southern europe , precisely because the objective of making the mediterranean an area of dialogue , tolerance and cooperation and a guarantee of peace and stability cannot be achieved without firm political will or without the lasting , well-balanced social and economic development of less-favoured peoples and the social development of the coastal peoples , improving their employment possibilities , in order to put an end to the multitude of problems caused by the tremendous number of emigrants leaving the basin and now affecting all the countries of the union .
mr president , in nice the european union will need to strike a balance between integration and enlargement and in marseilles it will need to strike a balance between its function in central europe and its responsibility in the mediterranean .
we need to set priorities ; in other words , we need to use the enlargement process to strengthen europe from the centre outwards and force a stabilisation process in south-east europe and in the western balkans , but without neglecting the barcelona process , which has been drifting for five years now .
with these conditions in place , it should be possible for the special council in marseilles to reach a consensus which does more than just highlight the fault lines in the eu .
mr president , tomorrow and the following day the euro-mediterranean conference is to be held in marseilles , attended by all the countries that signed the barcelona declaration , and i think that we can congratulate ourselves on this .
however , in all the evaluations that are now being made of five years of the barcelona process , many people think that we can be satisfied simply that the process is continuing , due to the fact that there have been ministerial meetings attended by representatives from israel , the palestinian authority , syria and lebanon , etc .
the evaluation is now a contrasting one and , of course , the strategic development of euro-mediterranean policy cannot depend on a temporary evaluation .
it is continuity over time that can provide results , and positive results will be ultimately measured by the development of the countries of the southern mediterranean .
those countries come up against a great deal of problems finding a place for their development and economic integration in the context of globalisation and we must do everything in our power to help restore balance to a situation characterised by gulfs between north and south .
above all , we need to avoid having to make an evaluation of the application of meda in five years ' time that leads us to conclude that only 26 % have been used .
the second is an essential policy dealing with the human aspect of managing migration flows .
the third is discussion and the quest for progress and consensus in developing a common agricultural policy in the mediterranean , without which we will probably not be able to achieve a positive outcome in the medium term .
however , we must not ignore the fact that the barcelona process has entered a critical stage , caused not only by lack of impetus or a slow down in the european undertaking in respect of the events in the balkans or enlargement , but also by the conditions of tragic open conflict in the mediterranean which are holding back reinvigoration .
i hope that when the conference of ministers of the union meets in marseilles , it will be able to adopt a position on this matter which is coherent with what is always pompously stressed , that human rights must not be violated .
mr president , since the barcelona conference and now on the eve of the marseilles conference , as has already been said , a great deal has taken place in the mediterranean region .
it is true that this conference is going to take place in a context of violence and of a peace crisis as a result of the conflict in the middle east , but it is also true that holding the conference will enable us to keep the flame of the euro-mediterranean process burning and that it should not be contaminated by the tragic conflict .
now more than ever we need to proclaim that only regional cooperation , dialogue with civil society , economic and cultural exchange , solidarity and mutual understanding can make the two shores of the mediterranean a prosperous and peaceful area .
it is a warning call to the european union to play a much more active role in the mediterranean area , which historically and culturally has enriched our european continent .
let us make borders a real filter for crime and criminals , and not a barrier to development , culture or the prosperity of peoples .
the european union needs a new culture of immigration and a better management of migration flows .
the european union is jointly responsible , with the countries of origin , for immigration and for organising those migration flows , which are so necessary for the development of the region .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , every day that passes is punctuated by developments in the current crisis in the middle east and every day that passes is a further indication , as if this were needed , that everything that happens in the south and around the mediterranean is of direct concern to us , and affects our daily lives .
unfortunately , for many years , too , factors such as the enlargement of europe to the east , the balkans crisis and wars have displaced the south in the minds of a great many europeans , hence the repeated delays in mediterranean processes and policies .
the commission and the council claim to want this .
what is much more serious , however , at the very moment when we are calmly exchanging points of view , often very divergent ones , within this chamber , more and more palestinians are being killed .
the european union must , as a matter of urgency , strongly condemn the israeli attacks on the palestinian people , whose demand to live in peace in their own state is a legitimate one and one which must , therefore , be met .
and i have seen that in all these documents on strengthening the barcelona agreement we are forgetting some things .
one of them is that liberalisation , a single market , cannot be established without taking care of some important aspects , such as people and culture or education .
europe needs to think outside the principle of subsidiarity or go beyond it and realise that it needs to provide a great deal of aid in order to raise the level in the recipient countries , among both men and women , not only of basic education but also of minimum education , which in europe is considered to be for all citizens .
with the rise in crude oil prices there is going to be much more pressure on the mediterranean .
also , we cannot demand that european citizens properly implement their environmental policy and not apply this to other countries .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow , wednesday , at 11.30 a.m .
as is known , a proposal was submitted back in may but we had to wait until september before there was a definitive proposal on the table .
this also means that the commission ' s new proposal was worth waiting for , because it sets out in clear and lucid terms how the european commission proposes to deliver aid in future , both with regard to the general regulation for the balkans and with regard to the proposal for the agency in kosovo .
there is now a regulation on the table which , as i see it , equips the european union to deliver aid in an efficient manner and on time , and to put eu funds to good use in the countries of the western balkans .
in this way , and this is very important - i will come back to it again shortly - a good balance has been struck between the commission ' s responsibility on the one hand and the need to involve the member states in some way , on the other .
however , there are two key aspects of policy i would like to focus on .
the first relates - and i am sorry to have to bother the commissioner with this again - to the finances .
the fact that the european union actually spends far more money but is nothing like as high profile , has led many people to conclude that there is a need to substantially raise people ' s awareness of our activities in the balkans .
seen in a positive light , i sometimes think , and hope , that the agency , by the manner in which it has operated to date , and in which it is to function in the future , ought to serve as an example of how aid should be delivered to the balkans , and also to other parts of the world .
the procedures involved are often too complex , but we must not turn a blind eye , nor must we want to - and i hope the member states do not do so either - to their part in this .
delivering aid to the balkans within the framework of cards , to countries such as croatia , albania , and macedonia , demands other special qualities and other capabilities .
let us confine ourselves to this and not dissipate our energies by extending the agency ' s capabilities beyond the borders of former yugoslavia .
after the tragedy that the balkans suffered , these fruits first appeared a few months ago in croatia with free elections and a regime eager to respect human rights , and have now revealed themselves in belgrade , where the citizens have confirmed their desire to live together in peace and freedom and to take their place in the family of europe .
we must not disappoint them in their expectations , and now more than ever these countries need our help .
we must continue this process of stabilising the region and prepare them for a longer-term perspective of integration in the institutions of europe .
in doing this , of course , we are staking our credibility and our own stability .
in addition , there are several measures - i am referring particularly to the cards programme - that should go beyond reconstruction and extend to training , education and the reconstruction of civil society in close collaboration with ngos .
it is vital that ngos should collaborate in this field , and also that there should be some coordination among them , if we really want their action to be more effective and to reach all parts of those regions .
the media in that region have often been responsible for the tragedy they have been through , so it is essential to have a completely free media that acts in accordance with the rules that prevail in our democracies .
it is also very important to make the judiciary really independent .
therefore it is important for the cards programme management committee to be a committee that confines itself to the general lines of multiannual planning and does not try to carry out everyday micro-management at too detailed a scale , because otherwise we may again have the same problems as in the past .
it is also essential to strengthen the role of the european parliament , and i believe that with the amendments , which are likely to be voted for tomorrow , the european parliament will be able to perform a greater consultative role in a process of interinstitutional collaboration .
we have to give more effective and more coordinated aid , gathering together all the scattered bits and pieces .
the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport , which i have the honour of chairing , has endeavoured , through its opinion , to emphasise the importance of this reconstruction work in the balkans as a possible way of integrating these areas into europe as a whole .
the fact that the amendments expressed as an opinion by the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport have been accepted and that unanimity has been achieved is , in my opinion , an important factor which this house should note and take into consideration .
our work has borne fruit .
but i am also happy because i feel that parliament has succeeded , by keeping the pressure on , in turning round a situation that originally left a great deal to be desired .
i then asked the commission to withdraw the proposal .
i am currently working on a report on how funds are being spent in bosnia herzegovina .
it is a follow-up report to a special report by the court of auditors .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the lagendijkand westendorp reports on the agency and the cards programme - it is difficult to distinguish one from the other - base their proposed amendments on the experience gained from their forerunners , the obnova programme and the kosovo agency .
i also feel that duplicate work by the governing board and management board and unnecessary ritual meetings of their members , where it is the director responsible who needs to take the necessary decisions on time , should be avoided .
i hope that parliament 's proposals will be accepted by the commission and the council .
as i understand it , the commissioner also takes the view that this should be an important objective in the cards programme .
i really do hope that the french minister for education , jacques lang , will be able to persuade his cabinet to ensure that the french government does not oppose the inclusion of the objective of education in the cards programme in the next coreper .
so my thanks to all my fellow members who see this as an important objective and i am delighted that we shall be able to bring these countries more in the way of content in the future .
mr president , i wanted to make a number of general comments today about what i would like to call ' the political reconstruction of the balkans region ' .
a great deal of headway has been made in the space of a year and the internal dynamics in a number of countries are at long last enhancing the role of the international community , even though the kosovo crisis is still fresh in the memory .
naturally the all-important question is : what future does kosovo have within yugoslavia ?
perhaps the european union could act as a mediator in this .
they have replaced three politicians who personified the worst aspects of former yugoslavia in the nineties .
the government in zagreb is helping us to think about the future of the region , and making real investments in democracy and stability .
europe must clearly demonstrate that its aid is making a difference , even before the parliamentary elections in serbia .
in the bosnian part , the position of the nationalists has come under attack for the first time ever .
we must concentrate our energies in the physical reconstruction of former yugoslavia , but this will only work if we manage to alter the people ' s frame of mind too .
those politicians who openly work for such a cause deserve not only our admiration , but above all , our support .
the stability of the region will depend on the extent to which the new leaders are able to keep the lid on the national spirit and develop a different kind of mentality .
the reports by mr westendorp and mr lagendijk provide the foundation we need for an efficient approach to the matter .
the aid has been too bureaucratic and too slow in coming , because the commission has been too centralised and management-driven in its work .
there has been too much management in detail , and parliament has been complicit in this on a number of points .
it is very unfortunate that there is no certainty regarding what we have by way of money for serbia next year .
it is also unfortunate that a large number of programmes have been put in the so-called performance reserve .
let us celebrate the visit by the elected serbian president tomorrow by now seriously giving the commission a chance to put the aid we offer onto a new and better footing .
mr president , the aid which we are discussing is yet another instrument of foreign intervention in this highly sensitive region of europe .
these events may well have created a climate of euphoria in leading imperialist circles ; but they know full well that they have not subdued the spirit of resistance in the yugoslavian or any other people .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are all aware that the western balkans present a significant challenge for the european union and the credibility of its foreign policy , due to the scale of our human , political and financial commitment in the region , and also our desire to facilitate stabilisation through the construction , development and finally reintegration of the balkan region into the european family .
it continued with another major event in the form of the victory of democratic forces in the federal republic of yugoslavia and the fall of milosevic .
we indeed hope that the year will end with the consolidation of democracy on 23 december during the parliamentary elections in serbia .
it reacted immediately to the new order in croatia , by undertaking the process that will lead , at the zagreb summit on 24 november , in other words in ten days ' time , to the opening of negotiations aimed at concluding a stabilisation and association agreement with this country .
thinking ahead to the summit in zagreb , we wanted to focus the union ' s action on consolidating democracy and evaluating the stabilisation and association process .
we should like to highlight the value of the process , for example by marking the conclusion of negotiations of the first stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia during the zagreb summit , or confirming an individual approach that is adapted to each country ' s particular characteristics and , as i have already said , by outlining the prospects the process holds for each of us .
the summit will also aim to consolidate democracy in the fry , support the process of reconciliation between these countries and neighbouring countries , and encourage the development of reliable cooperation between the countries in the region .
therefore , the union , without waiting for the stabilisation and association agreements to be implemented , will remind the five countries concerned that it expects them , as of now , to conclude regional cooperation agreements between themselves .
such agreements , that were provided for within the framework of the stabilisation and association agreements , should , in our view , include the initiation of political dialogue , a regional free trade area , as well as close collaboration in the field of justice and home affairs , in particular with a view to strengthening the judiciary and its independence in the fight against organised crime , corruption , money laundering and all other forms of criminal trafficking .
any rapprochement with the european union is , in fact , closely linked , in the eyes of the council , to the development of regional cooperation .
examination of the reports by mr westendorp y cabeza and mr lagendijk on proposals for a regulation concerning a framework programme on the one hand , and the european agency for reconstruction on the other , provide us with an opportunity to assess the scale of the support that the union intends to give the western balkans in relation to the stabilisation and association process .
the presidency-in-office , like you , would like this framework programme to implement the principles of the reform of the management of external aid : fewer procedures , greater coordination out in the field , fewer outstanding commitments .
similarly , we support the extension to the federal republic of yugoslavia of the activity of the european agency for reconstruction , which proved its effectiveness in kosovo .
the council presidency aims to reach an agreement on the proposals for a regulation regarding the cards programme and the european agency for reconstruction during the general affairs council at the end of november , in other words next week , so as to be able to make an announcement at zagreb on 24 november .
this amount , which will include assistance for the federal republic of yugoslavia , will result from a unanimous decision regarding the way in which the eur 10 billion available under the ceiling of heading 4 will be distributed between the two aid programmes , meda ii and cards , the adoption of which will feature among our priorities .
lastly , during the general affairs council on 18 september , the presidency-in-office adopted asymmetric commercial preferences for the benefit of those countries that are participating in the stabilisation and association process .
these measures accord preferential access to the community market for agricultural and industrial products produced by these countries .
the french presidency set itself ambitious targets as regards the western balkans which are close to being achieved : the development of the stabilisation and association process , the adoption of the cards programme , the adoption of asymmetric commercial preferences , to mention but the more noteworthy community measures .
the long-awaited victory of democracy in croatia , and then in the federal republic of yugoslavia , forces the european union , as we are well aware , to take things much further .
mr president , my initial impression of president kostunica is that he has been very pragmatic in his political dealings since he assumed power in the federal republic of yugoslavia .
he has consolidated his victory but has equally been tactful in his relations with other leaders in the region .
i hope that president kostunica and his supporters will steadily consolidate their position as the new democratic leadership in the federal republic of yugoslavia at all political levels .
elections for the serbian parliament are scheduled to take place on 23 december .
i welcome the fact that president kostunica has acknowledged the importance of cooperating with the war crimes tribunal in the hague .
an invitation has been extended to president kostunica to participate , as the new president of yugoslavia , at the forthcoming zagreb summit .
it is very important to assure the other balkan participants that the return of yugoslavia to the international community will in no way lessen their support from the european union .
other objectives of the zagreb summit must include an announcement of the community assistance and reconstruction , democratisation and stabilisation programmes for the western balkans , a confirmation of the progressive establishment of a free trading zone between the european union and the western balkans and a commitment by the countries in the region for regional cooperation and to putting in place a free trading regime between them .
this is an important new objective in the cards programme .
the commission is in favour and i should like very much to know if the council is too .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0553 / 2000 ) .
during the european council , within the framework of the report on the development of european facilities for military and civilian crisis management , it was suggested that rapid financing mechanisms , such as the creation by the commission of a rapid reaction fund , should be set up to speed up the provision of finance to support european union activities , to contribute to operations run by other international organisations and to fund ngo activities , where appropriate .
it was first examined on 6 november .
the aim is to adopt a regulation as soon as possible but , in order to achieve this , the council must have parliament ' s opinion in due form .
mr president-in-office , you want parliament 's opinion and we understand you propose taking a decision next month in december .
if i tell you that parliament will be debating this in january , i should like to know if you will wait for our opinion before you take your decision ?
i can only repeat what i said in the conclusion of my reply , namely that we aim to adopt a regulation as soon as possible , but , in order to do so , the council has to have the european parliament ' s opinion in due form .
question no 2 by ( h-0819 / 00 ) : subject : western sahara on 13-15 september a delegation from the european parliament ' s intergroup on peace for the sahrawi people , in which i participated , visited the sahrawi refugee camps in south-eastern algeria .
minurso has done remarkable work in identifying people with a view to drawing up electoral lists prior to the holding of the referendum on self-determination referred to in the un secretary-general ' s settlement plan signed by the moroccan government and the polisario front .
the delegation noted the terrible living conditions of the refugees .
the constant postponement of the referendum , and the failure of negotiations in berlin on 28 september 2000 , are raising serious concerns and engendering deep disappointment among the people .
question no 3 by ( h-0846 / 00 ) : subject : referendum on self-determination for western sahara the talks under way between the international mediator , un secretary general special envoy james baker , and the parties in dispute over the holding of a referendum on self determination for western sahara , are in a state of deadlock .
at the meeting held on 28 september in berlin , the moroccan authorities suggested that they might end their support for the peace plan for organisation of the referendum .
the council seeks to help foster a climate of confidence between the parties involved and ensure that this is achieved .
resolving the conflict in the western sahara will help bring stability to the maghreb and aid its economic and social development .
both parties have just been granted a new deadline of four months - by resolution 1324 - to try and make some progress on both counts .
in addition to this , eur 9 million if aid is being provided as of november 2000 for a period of eight months .
i myself have visited the camps at tindouf where this extremely difficult situation has been going on for 25 years .
at the end of the meeting held in berlin on 28 september 2000 , as you will be aware , the minister for foreign affairs of morocco made a speech in which he reasserted his willingness to do everything possible in order to find a sustainable and definitive solution .
mr rabat now seems to have realised that this proposal did not meet either the un secretary-general or his special envoy ' s expectations , and that it should have formed the basis for seeking a just and definitive solution to the problem .
this is the message we have given our counterparts in morocco .
mr president , mr president-in-office , i think the eu would have far more influence in the maghreb if there were stronger links with the reform process in morocco .
i can simply point out the fact that france and germany - and here i am no longer speaking as president-in-office of the council - raised these questions during a bilateral summit in vittel last week , where it was decided to form a working group in order to find a solution to the problem .
i asked what consultations took place between the council , the french presidency and the standing working group of experts .
i asked that question because just three weeks after the council 's expert group , the standing working group on the safe transport of radioactive materials , published a report in april 1998 giving a clean bill of health to the way nuclear wastes were transported , the transports were found to be contaminated , as the minister very well knows .
question no 5 by ( h-0826 / 00 ) : subject : eu initiatives in dispute between armenia and azerbaijan recently , following many years of conflict between armenia and azerbaijan - which have resulted in devastating economic stagnation and severe damage to the social fabric of the two countries - there have been signs of reciprocal attempts at rapprochement to break the current deadlock between the two countries and embark on reconstruction .
according to the international herald tribune of 7 september 2000 , the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan , robert kocharian and heydar aliyev respectively , have had at least 11 meetings with each other in recent times .
as you will be aware , the european union supports the mediation efforts currently in progress with a view to finding a political solution to all of the conflicts in the region , on the basis of respect for the territorial integrity of the states concerned and an appropriate degree of autonomy .
the european union remains convinced that the minsk group of the osce has a central role to play in finding a solution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict , in spite of the fact that the solutions put forward by this group in 1997 and 1998 were both rejected by erevan and baku .
the european union is also using all of the instruments at its disposal within the framework of the partnership and cooperation agreement to help improve relations between the two countries .
thanks to the various opportunities for cooperation , it has been possible to establish regular political dialogue with the aim of facilitating exchanges between armenia and azerbaijan .
at the same time , the union continues to provide substantial material aid to both countries through its various programmes , in particular its tacis programme .
it has offered to finance cross-border projects of common interest in an attempt to re-establish good neighbourly relations between the two countries .
the commitment of the european union has been publicly acknowledged by armenia and azerbaijan , who have both asserted their willingness to work towards a rapprochement between their countries and the european union .
and a european union which - from what i have read in the newspapers - recently changed its strategy on its energy problems and is now looking more towards the former soviet union - with all the implications which that has for the region in general - obviously cannot remain passive and fail to react to developments .
so from this point of view , and because , of course , the question was not asked in order to elicit an expression of satisfaction that everything is just fine but in order to express a concern , i think that it could be used as the starting point for an integrated policy , such as that which we have been debating recently for the balkans ; in other words , a new stability agreement for the caucasus , at the political initiative of the european union and with political objectives and priorities concerning development , autonomy and democracy in this region .
mr president , i shall start by reiterating the question put by mr souladakis , i.e .
as the author is not present , question no 6 lapses .
the european council in feira last june called upon the council to speed up the implementation of measures combating illegal rings , provided for in the conclusions of the tampere european council of october 1999 .
the measures to which the author of the question refers comprise a draft council directive aimed at defining the concept of the facilitation of unauthorised entry , movement and residence and a draft framework decision designed specifically to strengthen the penal framework combating the facilitation of unauthorised entry and illegal residence as defined therein .
these texts , which have been submitted to the european parliament for consultation , are currently being examined by the relevant groups within the council .
the question raised therefore provides the presidency-in-office with an opportunity to clarify several points .
i should also like to add that these two texts focus , in particular , on strengthening the framework of criminal law in order to fight organised rings of facilitators .
question no 8 by ( h-0836 / 00 ) : subject : ' crimes of honour ' in turkey every year , dozens of women fall victim to ' crimes of honour ' in turkey .
such practices appear to be in sharp decline and , we are told , only occur sporadically in rural areas .
however , these crimes continue to be a source of concern for the council as they are often committed in the most appalling circumstances .
the report that was adopted by the turkish cabinet on 21 september as a reform programme contains several planned amendments to the law , such as the inclusion of measures in the civil code that are designed to enhance effective equality between men and women in social and educational fields , ways to better combat domestic violence by training judges that specialise in family matters and , lastly , measures to prevent people that have committed crimes of honour from serving reduced sentences .
rest assured that the council will remain particularly vigilant as to the implementation of these measures that are in line with the copenhagen criteria , as discussed at length earlier on .
in any case , the issue of crimes of honour is not a problem that is specific to turkey , as these crimes occur in many other places around the world .
the council has therefore supported the dutch initiative aimed at the introduction this year , within the framework of the third committee of the united nations general assembly , of a draft resolution against these crimes , which is still in the process of being examined .
my question to the council is this : are you prepared to make efforts to put a stop to the spiral of violence by , for example , demanding that muslim leaders officially distance themselves from crimes of honour ?
question no 9 by ( h-0839 / 00 ) : subject : attitude of french european affairs minister , pierre moscovici , to austria in an interview with the french tv channel france 3 , the french european affairs minister , pierre moscovici , affirmed yet again his rejection of the austrian federal government .
on the other hand , and speaking on a more personal level , i can confirm that the statements this minister made on france 3 clearly reflect his personal opinion on the matter .
mr president , mr president-in-office , it is clear from your reply that you personally are holding the council to ransom .
it is precisely because the other 14 member states disapproved that they imposed sanctions against it .
i should like to mention that the president of the republic will be accompanied , as is usually the case , by one of his government ministers , either the minister for foreign affairs or myself .
next week , a meeting of the european conference will take place on my invitation in france , in other words a meeting with the candidate countries .
my question to the president-in-office is this : how is it that extreme right-wing parties are not banned in france and what is the president-in-office 's opinion of extreme left-wing parties in government ?
if , for example , and here i am talking as a minister , france was to elect an extreme right-wing party to office tomorrow , i would hope that the other countries would take measures against it similar to those taken against austria .
i shall answer your first point very clearly .
in this regard , several countries , including austria , have put forward proposals to amend article 7 of the treaty on european union , in order to set up a prevention and warning mechanism which would mean that a country considered to be out of step with the values of the european union can receive recommendations while at the same time having its point of view heard .
as regards the other points , i have not used the words ' extreme left ' and ' extreme right ' here because this would run the risk of a debate on the definition of both notions .
as regards the accession partnership with turkey to which you referred , the commission put forward its proposals on 8 november at the same time as it submitted its report on the progress made by each of the 13 applicant states regarding their application for membership .
secondly , how can the council possibly accept a text in which the long-term objectives scarcely mention the helsinki position on border disputes between a candidate country and a member state of the european union ?
on the issue of minorities and , in particular , the kurdish question , i think that anyone listening to the debate which took place earlier will be well aware that both the commission and the council are aware of these issues and have duly taken them into consideration .
i should like to remind you that this political dialogue constitutes , along with the future accession partnership , one of the elements in turkey ' s pre-accession strategy , which was set out on this occasion .
next monday ' s general affairs council on 20 november will specifically debate the proposal for an accession partnership that the commission has just put forward , which contains extremely clear , explicit , specific references to the helsinki conclusions .
in other words , is it possible that this partnership will be furthered and that turkey will join the european union without ceasing to occupy cyprus and removing its settlers from cyprus ?
i did not say that it is true that there is an imperialist regime in turkey , but i did say that if the european union accepted this rationale , in other words , the possibility of turkey joining the european union while it still occupied a large part of cyprus , you cannot blame us for considering the european union ' s actions as imperialist .
as the author is not present , question no 11 lapses .
even though it is difficult at present to envisage the final details of such an agreement , it seems clear that we need to establish a framework for cooperation and partnership in the area of fisheries that is broader than the previous agreement , and extend it to encompass all of the fisheries sector .
the agreement will also take into consideration the need to ensure the sustainable use of resources and aid the development of the moroccan fisheries sector .
mr president , i am very grateful to the president of the council for such a positive and to some extent optimistic and encouraging answer .
it must be remembered that the fisheries agreement with morocco is much more than a simple fisheries agreement ; as he knows , if this agreement were not reached , bearing in mind its significance , this fact might conceal a deterioration in the relations between the european union and morocco .
mr president-in-office of the council , it is essential that the french presidency should push hard along this home straight because commissioner fischler lacks the mediterranean imagination needed to be able to secure an agreement .
he is less likely to succeed in something which is purely mediterranean , than pitres , a village up in the alpujarra mountains in granada , is in getting its own port , or even the expansion of its port .
in view of this situation , my question is whether the french presidency , which does have the will and the imagination , will make it possible for us to achieve a fisheries agreement , which is now vital after eleven months of having our fleet tied up .
the commissioner for agriculture , rural development and fisheries acts on behalf of all of the european union , irrespective of whether he comes from the north , south , east or west .
commissioner fischler held several meetings with the highest authorities in morocco .
two technical meetings took place in rabat on 25 july 2000 and in brussels on 27 and 28 september 1999 .
these meetings seem to have revived the negotiation process and led to another meeting with a moroccan delegation on 30 october 2000 , therefore very recently .
it is worth pointing out that the principle of the mutual recognition of criminal decisions , in accordance with the conclusions of the tampere european council , must make it possible to reinforce cooperation between member states while at the same time reinforcing the protection of human rights .
the principle of the mutual recognition of criminal decisions presupposes the reciprocal confidence of member states in their own criminal justice systems .
the european union member states have a shared commitment to the principles of freedom , democracy , respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms , as well as the rule of law .
it is by remaining attentive to these values enshrined in the treaty on european union that the council will continue its work in the area of the mutual recognition of criminal decisions .
mr president , i have on my desk a document which was presented to one of my constituents in longuenesse jail in the north of france three months after his first detention there on suspicion of a drugs offence .
these are citizens from scotland where after 110 days of detention any person charged with an offence must either be brought to trial or released and never again charged with that offence .
mr president , my point of order is that there remain twenty minutes of question time , there are very few members in the house and there is no risk of exceeding time .
in this context , the council attaches the greatest priority to pushing this work forward in the following areas : the promotion of renewable energy sources , energy efficiency , the security of energy supplies and the diversification of energy sources .
the competent bodies of the council are currently working on a proposal to promote electricity from this renewable energy sources with a view to an agreement being reached at the next council meeting in december , provided the european parliament has given its opinion in due time .
as to energy efficiency , the commission presented an action plan during last may ' s council meeting .
furthermore , in the communication adopted on 4 october 2000 on the european union ' s oil supply , the commission indicated that , at the european council of goteborg , it was planning to present a plan to save energy and to promote the diversification of energy sources , which should help to boost energy efficiency , especially in buildings and transport .
as regards the security of energy supplies , the commission is planning to present a green paper , in november 2000 , on the future and place of the different energy sources in the context of improving the security of the energy supply of the european union .
this communication will tackle both nuclear energy and renewable energies .
what is more , the presidency has convened a conference on the security of supplies for 24 november 2000 in paris .
mr president-in-office of the council , i will not conceal from you that my question was designed first and foremost to elicit a list of projects and a calendar from you .
some of my fellow members have suggested an idea , which i too endorse , of investigating or drawing up plans towards , for example , a policy imposing the euro as the sole means of paying for oil in certain countries .
question no 15 by ( h-0858 / 00 ) : subject : new us bill enforcing embargo on cuba a new bill being voted on in the usa has given rise to a storm of protest both in cuba and in european .
the position of the european union on the extra-territorial measures decreed by the united states has not changed .
in the same vein , at the time of the vote on the resolution on the embargo as part of the third commission of the general assembly of the united nations which met on 9 november 2000 , we launched an appeal to the cuban authorities to cooperate fully with international organisations defending human rights .
the european union notes with satisfaction that cuba has continued to be very active in various international and regional forums .
it also recognises that measures have been taken by the cuban government to better integrate the country into the region economically .
finally , it is with concern that the european union takes note of the findings of the united nations ' agencies and programmes on the ground .
i recalled the very clear differences between the united states and europe regarding the extra-territorial measures decreed by the united states .
i noted with satisfaction , on behalf of the council , that cuba had continued to be very active in various international and regional forums .
i recognised that measures had been taken by the cuban government to better integrate their country economically into the region and reaffirmed europe ' s willingness to be cuba ' s partner in this process .
finally , i recalled that it was with concern that the european union took note of the observations made by the united nations ' agencies and programmes on the ground and deplored the negative , and often tragic , repercussions of the us economic embargo as they affected the cuban population .
this case has not , in any case , been brought up in the council of the european union .
more generally , issues relating to the settlement of the disputes between greece and turkey are included in the reinforced policy dialogue in the context of turkey ' s pre-accession strategy and the accession partnership the commission has just proposed and which the french presidency - as i can confirm - hopes will be adopted quickly .
moreover , the council is gratified that , at their meeting in budapest on 31 october , the turkish and greek foreign ministers agreed to adopt confidence building measures in the context of nato , and to do so bilaterally .
fourthly and finally , does he not think that his reply is an encouragement to turkey , a candidate country for membership of the european union , to continue its present policy of contesting the sovereign rights of greece , a member of the european union and that he has therefore indirectly admitted that there are border disputes which must be resolved , as we have said , on the basis of international conventions ?
that is the mandate the council has given itself for the next phase in the examination of this candidacy , which has already been discussed at length and in detail today .
the sums budgeted for the balkans should put us in mind , in terms of quality and quantity , of a new marshall plan and should act as a springboard to a new beginning in the countries of the western balkans .
nor should we forget that the countries of the western balkans are not third countries , they are candidate countries for membership of the european union and we must treat them as such .
the exception is the reconstruction agency which has its headquarters in thessaloniki and an operational centre in kosovo .
commissioner and the few honourable members who have found their way here , i must , of course , start by congratulating the rapporteurs on their work and excellent cooperation , especially the rapporteur who is here in the house .
i think that the commission and council are also keen for us to work consistently with the means at our disposal over coming years to achieve these objectives .
the second issue which i would like to touch on concerns the strategy in the region .
we must look on this region as a region of europe and not as a region of antagonism between the countries and the national policies of europe or america .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the excellent reports which they have tabled today .
the message sent by parliament through these documents comes across loud and clear .
we must bear in mind that there is still a long way to go along the road to peace in the balkans and that potential friction points still exist which could well set the whole process back again .
but this region , the most troubled region of europe , has never held such hope as it does now .
the virtually despotic croatian system has been replaced with a pro-west democratic system .
the vulnerable countries surrounding the remains of yugoslavia have weathered the crisis , and , what is more , bulgaria , albania and macedonia have even made economic progress .
in the fine changes of balance currently governing the balkan region , the responsibility of the european union is great , enormous , and when we say the union we mean the member states but also the european and parliament .
the european commission must assume responsibility for the smooth running of these programmes , and this is the primary objective of the two reports which are to be put to the vote tomorrow .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in the texts before us , the commission and parliament have put a figure of eur 4 billion on the war damage caused by the nato bombings in serbia alone , excluding kosovo , thereby indirectly admitting that they were to blame for some of the material war crimes .
i totally endorse all the objectives which he set out .
that summit is taking place in rather happier conditions than we perhaps imagined when the presidency first conceived of it .
these two proposals respond to two key union priorities : providing assistance to southeastern europe and providing it as rapidly and as efficiently as possible .
the european councils of lisbon and feira underlined the importance that the union gives to the integration of this region into the economic and political mainstream of europe .
the return of democracy to serbia , thanks to the determination and courage of the serb people and the democratic forces there , offers the chance now of building prosperity across the whole region .
the reform of external assistance which the commission adopted on 16 may demonstrates our determination to improve radically the speed , quality and visibility of external assistance .
the figures bear this out : 84 % of the funds allocated for reconstruction under obnova - in 1998 to 2000 eur 444.5 million - had been committed by the end of october 2000 .
seventy percent of the funds committed had been contracted and 43 % of the contracted funds had been paid .
we have achieved rapid results in serbia too , where the commission , in the space of just over four weeks , has drawn up an emergency assistance programme worth in total eur 200 million .
our reforms have started to bring results too in bosnia , where the implementation of assistance , in terms of amounts contracted and disbursed has improved dramatically since our delegation in sarajevo was reinforced last year and authority was delegated to it .
the results that have been achieved are extremely encouraging .
these are the results of which the european parliament too can be proud .
it was the european parliament that sounded the alarm about weak management in bosnia .
it was parliament which supported the commission 's proposal to create the european agency for reconstruction .
it was parliament which insisted on a single regulatory framework for assistance to the region and it was parliament , in its role as budgetary authority , which made sure that funds were made available for emergency assistance for serbia , without delay .
that is the purpose of these two proposals .
and it also proposes simple decision arrangements for programmes run by the european reconstruction agency .
let me take up a number of the broad points that have been raised by parliament , first the role of the commission and its financial responsibilities in relation to the running of the agency .
the commission takes very seriously its responsibilities for the implementation of the community budget .
in the same spirit we can accept the proposal to include a reference to the feira european council conclusions in the preamble to the regulation .
parliament 's resolution on the commission 's communication on the stabilisation and association process also deserves to be mentioned in the preamble .
to be clear : we can accept the spirit , provided changes can be made in certain cases to the wording , of amendments nos 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 , 7 , the first part of 11 , the first part of 13 , 16 partially , 17 , 18 , 19 partially and 20 , 21 , 24 , 28 in the first part , 31 and partially 37 .
the commission 's position on the overall sum we estimated was necessary for the region , the so-called financial reference amount and its compatibility with the financial perspectives , is well-known .
that may be regarded by some members of some councils as being a touch brutal in its assessment of the powers of the council but it is entirely true .
we have to deal with finite budgets but i very much hope that the budget which is available for the external actions of the european union reflects the political priorities of the european union .
i should have thought , in particular , that the experience of the last two months has shown that the commission 's proposal on financing was not as eccentric as some people suggested at the time .
our main aim is to clarify the role of the governing board .
according to the new regulation the commission will be permitted to adopt programmes proposed by the agency without having to consult the management committee .
let me make it clear that responsibility for the formal adoption of the programmes remains with the commission .
it is the commission that decides on the desirability of these programmes ; it is the commission which is responsible for the implementation of the budget ; it is the commission which adopts the programmes .
a number of amendments seek to ensure that the agency acts under the direct and sole responsibility of the commission and thereby to ensure that the commission is solely responsible for the agency 's management before the european parliament , the court of auditors and olaf .
i would like to thank parliament for the sensible and pragmatic way it has accepted the current structure of the agency .
i know parliament 's views on this issue and the commission will take these into account in the design of any future executive agencies .
the language regime is a further sensitive issue .
we can accept those amendments which are designed to remove the requirement for a further council decision to extend the mandate of the agency to the whole of the fry .
i can accept , too , those amendments which refer to the general affairs decision of 9 october , to cooperation with ngos , to the restoration of civil society and the rule of law , to the payment for services provided by the agency , to third parties , to the possibility of creating further operational centres , to the responsibility of the director for the implementation of the work programme and the structure of the agency 's budget .
this means that we can accept the spirit , provided changes can be made in certain cases to the wording , of amendment nos 1 , 2 , 6 , 8 , 10 in part , 11 , 37 , 16 , 27 and 33 .
this concerns amendments nos 29 and 30 .
let me reiterate my thanks to parliament for its hard work on these issues .
this proposal should allow us to take advantage of the new opportunity we have , to make a decisive contribution as the european union to lasting peace and prosperity across the whole region .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 p.m .
before reporting on the third asem summit and evaluating its results , let me briefly say a word about the asem process .
the challenge for the third summit in seoul was to deepen the asem process both for governmental participants and for the broader public .
we outlined our goals for asem iii in our working party , we discussed it with the european parliament before the summit on two occasions in the asean working party and in the plenary which resulted , i believe , in your resolution of 5 october , the aims of which we not only took into account , but also managed to achieve in most cases .
in addition to adopting three important documents , the leaders of the summit actively engaged in discussion of sensitive issues like human rights , the south china sea , east timor and burma .
leaders agreed to an expanded and updated asia-europe cooperation framework 2000 which forms the work programme for the coming decade .
the summit adopted the separate seoul declaration for peace on the korean peninsula , welcoming the inter-korean summit in june , urging both sides to continue building on its success and underlining the importance of engaging the democratic people 's republic of korea in multilateral dialogue .
leaders also confirmed the preparation of voluntary annual reports on the status of efforts to overcome barriers to trade as identified under the trade facilitation action plan .
in the social and cultural field , leaders recognised the vital importance of better educational links with specific initiatives for promoting mutual awareness , including an enhancement of inter-university cooperation and electronic networking between schools .
in the related people-to-people field , the principle of opening the asem process to a larger segment of civil society was maintained , although the ngo initiative to establish a social forum could not be realised because of the resistance of certain asian partners .
i am sure parliament can see these results are in line with the resolution of 5 october which i mentioned earlier .
finally , leaders agreed to encourage an intensification of contacts among parliamentarians as set out in the cooperation framework .
i think that reminded us in europe of the important role that we have in asia , not just in economic and trade terms , though it has to be said that one of the reasons for asia 's recovery has been that we have kept our word to keep our markets open to asian exports over the last two years .
we have kept our word in economic and commercial matters which , among other things , encourages asia to take us rather more seriously .
it is important to remember that we also have a political role in asia , not just in our advocacy of democracy and good governance , but also in the contribution we can make in the korean peninsula and elsewhere to stability and security for the future .
the asem process is an important one .
the process is developing and strengthening with time and i look forward to the next asem meeting in denmark in a couple of years ' time when i am sure we will be able to build on the progress already achieved .
commissioner , first i agree with your reading that the asem process is hugely important .
i think that it is our job here in parliament to follow up on what the european side generously included in the conclusions , namely cooperation between the european parliament and the parliaments of the countries in asia , following the first asem conference held in strasbourg a few years ago .
what is more important is what was not adopted .
we could have done so much more in terms of financial stability , trade and investments , and infrastructure .
things were said but they have not found their way into the projects that were agreed , not even in terms of the considerable reserve , for example , although this could easily have been done .
we find it incomprehensible that the secretariat for the fellowship programme is to be located in seoul .
what we want to know is whether our ministers have given asem due consideration .
the european commission deserves our support because we are convinced it is going about things the right way .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday .
the commission ' s communication confines itself to dealing with those aspects relating to the powers of the community and member states in tasks arising from their participation in those organisations .
it must , however , obey the same basic principles from a legal and institutional point of view .
in future the commission must not confine itself to being a mere figurehead : it must unequivocally and specifically take up all aspects of the community 's participation in these regional organisations , representing it , monitoring the transmission and verification of data , participating in scientific fora , and in general guiding community action , including monitoring the fishing carried out in the context of these organisations .
the monitoring of fisheries affects the jurisdiction of the member states and hence to a certain extent the core of their sovereignty .
in view of the growing importance of the regional fisheries organisations ( rfo ) , the european union must fully exercise its powers in fisheries matters , but this raises a problem above all of human and material resources .
similarly , if the community is a contracting party in the rfos , it must behave accordingly and perform the role required of it .
the implementation of this principle has financial implications and requires legal changes and , possibly , sacrificing a certain amount of sovereignty ; but if a particular model of political integration is chosen the means must be provided for that model to be put into practice .
the rapporteur has understood their importance perfectly and has drawn up an excellent report , which highlights the real weakness of the communication .
similarly , the commission has the obligation not only to properly represent us in the international maritime sphere but also to take the initiative .
mr president , i thank the rapporteur and the commissioner .
the regional fisheries organisations and the community 's participation in them is an important issue .
reform of the cfp will be critical but getting the right reforms will be even more important .
the fisheries management scheme would involve all interest groups in a particular region .
regional fisheries organisations provided a role on an international scale and regional or zonal management can make the global become local .
because europe ' s member states are obsessed with disputes in community waters , they forget , in practical terms , that fishing has a worldwide dimension , in terms of both the conservation of marine stocks and production and also the markets and the nature of the fleets .
as a result , some countries in the union , such as galicia , which i represent , are affected particularly badly by this situation and by the consequent lack of human and material resources afflicting the european commission in its implementation of the common policy for regional fishing organisations .
we are backing the regional fisheries organisations ; we are asking for more regional fisheries organisations and for the commission to have more weight in them .
to support the united nations position in both the 1982 convention and the new york one , which has been mentioned here , we must maintain a very active presence in these organisations in favour of responsible fishing .
we are a budgetary authority and i believe we should fund this line , because in these organisations and in these waters we are staking a lot on the future of fisheries in the coming years .
it has also been the source of tremendous disagreement between the fishermen , on one hand , and the scientists , on the other .
that is why i believe there is a tremendous role for the commission to play in going out there and encouraging the fishermen to come forward and cooperate with it and come forward with a solution that we can all agree to .
in exercising their sovereign rights as flag states , they must provide the necessary human , financial and material resources needed in order for the community to meet its international obligations .
the commission should concentrate on its own job , which is to monitor and coordinate the implementation of controls in the regional fisheries organisations by the member states .
i should like to reiterate two fundamental points here .
that means that we shall have plenty of opportunity here next year to discuss these issues in depth .
the commission has always spoken out here in favour of the rules for cooperation between parliament and the commission and has always adhered to the rules of the interinstitutional agreement .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
between 1998 and 2000 , production surged disproportionately , with an increase of 20 million head of pigs , reaching an annual total of 205 million pigs slaughtered in the european union .
ladies and gentlemen , under these conditions , the problem concerns less the future of production than the future of producers .
that is why , fully aware of the extent of the problem , on the basis of my report the committee on agriculture and rural development introduced amendments to make this proposal more attractive and more effective .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , these are the solutions advocated by the committee on agriculture and rural development .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , as shadow rapporteur for the garot report on the common organisation of the market in pigmeat , i should like once again here to make clear reference to the shadow side of the report .
the report , which basically makes provision for a compensation fund for pigfarmers , and hence goes beyond the commission proposal , was adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development .
mr president , the commission proposal recognises that the pigmeat market in the european union is subject to cyclical movements , with periods of balanced supply and satisfactory prices followed by periods of plentiful supply when prices plummet .
the result is the disappearance of family holdings , whose only solution is to close down or to move into what is known as integrated production , in other words production in which the producers lose their independence as farmers and join a business structure - such as distribution chains or supermarkets - which dictates production plans to them in exchange for a certain economic stability .
what the proposal calls a regulatory mechanism consists of authorising a member state that so wishes to establish a fund financed by those producers who join it on a voluntary basis for a minimum of five years , on the undertaking that they do not increase their stock .
if subsidised by the eu , the regulatory fund proposed in mr garot ' s report may well be of short-term benefit to small producers and help keep them artificially alive at the expense of larger and more productive producers who are , of course , the future for pigmeat production here in europe .
this objective suits me fine and , as i say , if we had applied it in other organisations of the market , we would have a very different structure today .
mr president , at a time when food safety is more than ever on the agenda and , above all , at a time when the entire meat industry in europe is affected by mad cow disease , it is especially important that the reform of the com in pigmeat is adopted without delay .
but this proposal would be totally inadequate if it was possible for member states to reject these regulatory systems and if the reserves used to maintain revenues in a period of crisis were drawn solely from producer contributions , as this would lead to a two-speed production in pigmeat .
the current com in pigmeat is extremely flimsy and much too hesitant .
this planned reform is the first remotely significant reform that the commission has proposed since 1975 .
the amendments introduced by the committee on agriculture and rural development at the instigation of georges garot , whom i must congratulate on his work , transforms this limited text into a wide-ranging one .
the participation of all member states in this new system will be compulsory .
the participation of the community budget is also essential since , without it , those joining one of these regulatory funds would simply be faced with constraints and the system would not be attractive at all .
that is why our rapporteur proposes that the european union should make a greater commitment by co-financing the regulatory funds .
in this way , far from creating an exceptional system from the standpoint of international practice , with this flexible system of preventing and managing crises we would be moving , at reasonable cost , towards what is practised in certain third countries , such as the insurance-cum-income systems in force in the united states and canada .
we therefore support the proposal by the commission , as profoundly amended by the work of the committee on agriculture and rural development , and will be voting in favour of the garot report .
this fund may be just the instrument to reduce pigfarmers ' losses in times of crisis .
the pig crises in 1998 and 1999 demonstrate the inadequacy of instruments such as private stocking and the export refunds of the common organisation of the market in pigmeat at the time .
in my view , the basic principle of eu financing should apply to common organisations of the market , including the common organisation of the market in pigmeat .
the proposal makes provision for the fund to be set up by the member states .
mr president , first of all , it would be totally wrong of us to have come here tonight to either criticise the report or the commission for coming forward with the proposal .
i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report .
i have extremely serious reservations as to whether it can help the pig farmer in either the short term or long term .
co-financing is one aspect , but i have a horrible suspicion that would perhaps create an uneven playing field in many countries throughout the european union .
i have to ask the commissioner - because this is the one thing that might be useful for some of us - whether this proposal will be mandatory on the member states ?
when the price has been low then the family is not doing well .
it is a question of balance .
let us look at how we can best support the industry in the longer-term .
the crises in the pig sector which , thank god , we have since overcome , were in fact what prompted the commission proposal in the first place .
what we are discussing is an instrument to support farmers ' incomes in times of crisis .
the commission proposal gives member states the choice of whether or not they wish to set up a fund , whereas the proposed amendment makes it compulsory for all member states .
then there is the question of including specialist breeders in the proposed system , as stated in proposed amendments nos 7 and 13 .
the commission cannot accept proposed amendment no 16 because this amendment would interfere drastically with the freedom of decision of farmers who decide not to participate in the fund , in order to retain their freedom .
the planned reduction in production for each member state depending on previous production sounds suspiciously like a quota regulation .
as far as adjusting aid on the basis of the number of animals is concerned , may i point out that the commission proposal already makes provision for a legal basis for just such a procedure .
but the title reads " on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation ( eec ) no 2759 / 75 on the common organisation of the market in pigmeat . "
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.10 p.m. )
court of auditors ' annual report for 1999 the next item is the presentation of the court of auditor ' s annual report for 1999 .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of the members of the court of auditors i would like to thank you all for inviting me to present the 23rd annual report of the court .
as in previous years , this presentation marks the start of the discharge procedure for the 1999 financial year .
the report follows the format used for the past two years with chapters covering revenue in each of the expenditure areas under the headings of the financial perspective .
the different chapters of the annual report address four main concerns .
firstly , there is an analysis of the budgetary implementation of the budgetary management practices within the specific financial headings .
you will find that the court has paid more attention to the follow-up to previous observations , in response to the demands expressed by this parliament .
thirdly , in response to the request of the european parliament , the court has expanded its audit work on the statement of assurance and now provides additional information per area of expenditure in each chapter .
since the last discharge procedure the court has adopted 24 special reports containing the results of audits which focus on a wide range of specific areas in which the community 's financial management can be improved .
although these reports are not part of today 's presentation , they are to be taken into account in the discharge procedure .
the gross national product-based resources represent 43 % of this total .
the value added tax-based resources represent 36 % and the traditional own resources are 15 % of the total .
in the customs area the court reports on the complexity and variable application of the outward processing procedure .
this is 96 % and 92 % respectively of the available appropriations for the year .
the utilisation rates of the financial perspective estimates are 91 % and 83 % respectively .
it is , therefore , difficult to draw general conclusions on this budgetary implementation .
however , the court makes the following major points .
as reported in chapter 2 of this annual report , the high rate of expenditure , which is almost 99 % of final appropriations , is explained in part by numerous transfers that reflect in fact the poor quality of the initial estimates , of both revenue and expenditure .
the court invites both the commission and the member states to improve the quality of these estimates .
there were also numerous transfers of appropriations for the structural funds that significantly altered the structure of the 1999 budget .
in this area there was also an under-utilisation of commitment and payment appropriations and a concentration of transactions at the end of the year .
in areas where the community programmes are implemented directly by the commission , such as internal policy and external actions , implementation rates are somewhat lower .
the court repeats , consequently , its comments of previous years on the negative effects of this , for instance poor and hasty decisions , heavy workload creating a risk of errors and so on .
finally , in both the chapters on internal policies and external actions , the court finds that the commission 's own comments on budgetary implementation are inadequate .
the court welcomes , therefore , the clear commitment of the commission 's answer to improve fundamentally its budgetary and accounting report .
the court has produced an annual statement of assurance since the 1994 budgetary year .
the majority of these errors occurred in areas of the community budget that are managed by the authorities in the member states .
the most frequent examples here are problems in implementing regulatory control checks insufficiently , detailed supporting documentation and failure to comply with tender procedures .
not only is it the duty of the court to report on the errors found in its audits but we should also ensure that our audit findings are interpreted and used correctly .
therefore , let me remind members of parliament that the high incidence of errors found by the court cannot , and must not , be seen as an indication of the level of fraud affecting the community budget .
most of the payment errors found by the court are due to problems of inadequate financial management and control and it is only in the case of a small proportion of the errors found that further reinvestigation by olaf or the member states ' authorities is justified .
as the court already pointed out in its previous report , a medium-term improvement requires a combination of general and specific measures , including the clarification and improvement of control procedures , particularly at the level of member states .
in this context , the court welcomes the commission 's plan for improving financial management presented to the discharge authority in the context of the discharge for 1998 .
this reflection leads me to some comments on the reform of the commission .
for instance , the proposals of the commission to increase the responsibility of authorising officers for the execution of commitments and payments while bringing to an end the centralised system of prior approval of transactions by the financial controller , together with the creation of an independent internal audit service , is in line with the key requirement for improved financial management that we lay down in our opinion no 4 / 97 .
at sector level , the commission has now announced reform programmes which can be seen as a response to concerns expressed by the court over a number of years , for example , the proposals for improving the management of external aid programmes .
this initiative is clearly based on an analysis very similar to that of the court - most comprehensively set out in its annual report for 1997 .
in some cases , such as the reforms of the measures for the subsidised use of skimmed milk and skimmed milk powder or the programme of assistance to south africa , as well as in certain areas of traditional own resources , the commission has taken actions to remedy specific weaknesses reported upon by the court .
for instance , for the milk quota system , the court found that the overall situation had not significantly changed and that , contrary to the court 's view , increased quotas have been established , thereby giving rise to greater surpluses in the milk market and a heavy financial burden for public storage and disposal measures .
in the case of the import of dairy products at preferential rates , the court considers that nothing has been done so far to avoid breaches of regulations similar to those reported in the court 's special report no 4 / 98 .
in the area of the social dialogue , the commission has not undertaken all the measures it had agreed to carry out in its replies to the court 's observations .
in its 1996 annual report , the court identified a number of weaknesses in the management of an export promotion fund for nicaragua and honduras .
in its discharge recommendation published in 1998 the council called on the commission to review its relations with the regional bank and recover amounts unduly credited by this bank .
in its 2001 programme , the court has therefore planned an overall audit covering all budgetary areas of the commission 's recovery procedures .
member states are responsible for the day-to-day management of the bulk of community funds in the areas of the common agricultural policy and the structural funds .
this annual report and the special reports published since the last discharge continue to draw attention to serious and persistent weaknesses in member states ' management and control systems .
for instance , an important category of errors reported in the statement of assurance are irregular deductions by the central or local administrations on agricultural subsidies .
the commitment undertaken by the commission should be seen as a constructive reply to this challenge : a reply that deserves our support .
the new president of the italian court of auditors , the corte dei conti , who was officially installed in office a few weeks ago , said in his instalment address : " i am convinced that the relations between the court of auditors and parliament would be significantly improved if parliament strengthened the instruments that are designed to ensure that parliament systematically takes results of audits carried out by the court of auditors into consideration . "
yesterday i had the opportunity - for which i thank the president - to discuss with the president of parliament involving all the committees of this parliament in the business of financial and management control .
last , but not least , we will also need the cooperation of the member states .
being responsible for the day-to-day management of the bulk of community funds , the member states need to strengthen their financial controls and to take up fully their responsibilities in the fight against fraud against the community budget .
only when all actors - the commission , parliament , the council , the european court of auditors and the member states - commit themselves to the reform and cooperate in this achievement will the confidence of the european taxpayer in community financing be able to be restored .
madam president , mr president of the court of auditors , members of the court of auditors , ladies and gentlemen , the european commission is heading in the right direction , but it still has a long way to go .
the court of auditors is giving the commission 's reform a fair wind .
that is to be welcomed and i would like to thank you most sincerely , mr karlsson , and also the members of the court of auditors and its officials , for supporting the reform of the commission in your report .
in its annual report for 1999 , the court concluded that too many errors had occurred in implementing the budget to give a positive statement of assurance .
the court has once again stressed that over 80 % of european budget resources are administered by the member states .
but i find it really amazing that some member states can refuse to accept financial responsibility , for example , in the area of customs duties , when their own authorities have made mistakes which mean that customs duties cannot be entered and they then refuse to make good this shortfall in revenue , so that instead all the member states have to accept joint responsibility for this revenue shortfall .
the court of auditors also makes it clear in its report that the errors identified by the court do not amount to fraud , nor are they detrimental to the budget .
the recently published annual report on protecting the financial interests of the community and the annual report on fraud prevention demonstrate this .
new measures have been taken to prevent fraud in procurement , which is a very important area .
cooperation agreements with third countries and , in particular , with candidate countries have been framed more strictly so that anti-fraud measures do not stop at the eu 's borders .
mr president of the court of auditors , i for one warmly welcome the fact that you have announced your intention to prepare a special report , to carry out a special audit on this .
the court of auditors is increasingly making use of special reports .
i would like to welcome this trend on behalf of the commission , as these special reports are very topical and can therefore also be valuable in making up-to-the-minute decisions .
by way of a specific example , i have in mind the special report that has just been published on the market organisation for sugar .
that applied to food aid for russia , for example , which the court audited in one report .
the commission has presented a paper on this to the committee on budgets .
however , not only are we heading in the right direction , we have also already covered a significant part of the ground .
it has also set up an internal audit service which will monitor the control systems in individual departments as well as creating a central financial service which all the directorates-general can use , for instance when they are drawing up contracts or when they need help in implementing the provisions of the financial regulation .
but we are now coming to a difficult stretch , where we need the support of the european parliament , the council and also the court of auditors .
this applies , for example , to the amendment of the disciplinary procedure , but it also applies in particular to the revision of the financial regulation .
mr president , you said that much of the reform is still only on paper .
for example , the court of auditors has committed itself to giving its opinion on the proposal for the revision of the financial regulation as quickly as possible , and i am very grateful for that .
but i would particularly like to thank you , mr karlsson , as president of the court of auditors , for the way you have kept the members of the committee on budgetary control informed this time round .
the reality as described in the annual report is , however , more sobering .
parliament expressly drew attention to these serious accounting errors during the discharge procedures for 1996 , 1997 and 1998 .
the number of errors occurring is too great for a guarantee of this kind to be given .
madam president , i should first of all like to thank the court of auditors for its annual report .
the amount of fixed assets has been set eur 240 million too low .
liabilities have been set eur 2.6 billion too low , and unredeemed liabilities have been set eur 1.2 billion too high .
the former commission , which was primarily responsible for the 1999 budget , was indeed given the sack .
i believe this is a good way of doing that , and i also think that the report should be much more practical .
i could also do with seeing the court of auditors produce its report earlier in the year .
it would give us more time for the discharge procedure in parliament , and we should not need to defer the discharge every single year .
as rapporteur , i now have only 14 days in which to ask the commission questions , and in 14 days it has to supply me with the answers .
it is almost unreasonable to make such demands , so if we could obtain the report much earlier , we could also produce a piece of work of even higher quality .
reform of the commission is largely about making the individual directorates-general responsible , and i should like to ask the court whether it has plans in future to restructure the annual report so that chapters for the individual directorates-general are prepared .
in 1995 , a convention to protect the eu ' s economic interests was adopted .
madam president , i too would like to thank the chairman of the court of auditors for their report , and the commissioner for their response to it .
i believe that in principle it is a sound procedure .
madam president , i , along with all my colleagues , wish to welcome this annual report which is presented to us in a spirit of constructiveness .
it is regrettable that it is not possible for the court of auditors to give a clean bill of health to the commission with a positive statement of assurance .
this situation has not changed since the first statement of assurance was published in respect of the 1994 budgetary year .
member states are responsible for managing 80 % of the expenditure and a range of errors has been found by the court at member state level .
we should remind ourselves that the eu resources come directly or indirectly from european citizens .
i am pleased that the commission has taken steps to improve its management control over community finances , and systems are being put in place in the member states .
the commission must be vigilant in its pursuit of proper management procedures at member state level .
in conclusion , let us approach our task in a positive and constructive spirit in the best interests of the citizens of the eu .
madam president , mr president of the court of auditors , in 1999 , the netherlands made the highest per capita contribution to eu coffers .
firstly , the commission has committed eur 400 million more than we budgeted for , and secondly , it has modified the original budget and implemented a revised version without parliament ' s approval .
the number of irregularities in the structural funds payments warrants a thorough investigation into the way these funds operate and their effectiveness .
reforming the commission is no guarantee that previously recorded irregularities will not arise in the future .
i should be grateful if the court would issue its opinion on the reform of the financial regulation soon .
right now , madam president , i should like to stop talking and wait for someone from the council to come here .
you say that you keep on drawing attention to serious and persistent weaknesses in member states ' control and management systems , and you say that most of the errors occur in the main spending programmes managed by the member states ' administrations .
i believe that we , the members of this parliament , will be able to point to and lay the blame on our own administrations if they do not meet their commitments , but you have to do us the favour of clearly indicating the states and the programmes .
i am convinced that in order for the community ' s financial interests to be properly defended any management failures must have consequences in the budget and parliament must be able to deny funds to a member state for repeated breaches of spending control regulations .
mr pomes ruiz , it is totally unacceptable that the council ' s seat is empty .
your work is crucial to our job because you are the experts and we then sort out the political problems .
we must not forget that this report refers to the 1999 budget , the year when there was the forced resignation of the commission , so it is clearly too early to judge yet .
let us not forget , and i hope the council once again is listening , that 80 % of the money is spent in the member states .
we want to know where the problems lie , in which member states , in which areas .
of course , there are no magic solutions to improving financial control in the commission .
we have a lot of vested interests to challenge but we will be watching next year 's report for concrete evidence that the measures the commission has put in place since its investiture have had a real impact in stamping out financial mismanagement .
madam president , the enlargement of the european union is looming , and the report by the court of auditors leaves us in no doubt that there is still a great deal of work to be done in the candidate countries too .
if we are to do all this on the already modest budgets we have at present , how are we to manage when these countries actually become members and start participating in the common agricultural policy and the structural funds ?
madam president , it is all very well having one representative from the council here , but that is not enough , because - as has already been pointed out on several occasions - the majority of serious errors have been committed in the member states .
the committee on budgetary control can no longer tolerate the impression being created , year in year out , that ' it is a real shambles in brussels ' , when the main culprits are sitting in the capital cities .
i think that if the court leaves this much room for interpretation in its report , the result will always be critical headlines .
this headline relates to a press conference by mr friedmann , and i must ask , mr karlsson , why members of the court of auditors are making different statements , first in our committee on budgetary control and then apparently to the press .
i believe that we urgently need clearer criteria for next year 's report by the court of auditors .
secondly , various honourable members have already mentioned the lack of clarity here .
mrs ruhle and other previous speakers have mentioned percentages .
but you have not included that in your report , and i am sick and tired of hearing , year after year , that the member states are responsible for 80 % and the commission for only 20 % , while the report itself does not point the finger of blame !
mr president , although the court cannot provide a positive statement of assurance for 1999 , the tone of the report on the whole is more positive than it has been in previous years .
i would like to congratulate the commission , and commissioner schreyer in particular , on the court 's observation that many of the changes it has requested are being implemented or are on the way to being implemented .
i would also like to pick on the council by asking why it is not moving forward on article 24 of the financial regulation .
parliament moved very quickly to give its opinion and i hope that council will be able to do the same and adopt its position well before christmas .
it is too political in the negative sense of the word .
other members have already pointed this out .
we need to look at the way the court works and how its independence from the institutions and the programmes it is meant to audit can be strengthened .
the report is positive about steps that have been taken by parliament to remedy problems that have been identified by the court , too positive in my view .
many of these changes have either not yet been implemented or have been implemented partially .
finally , mr karlsson , while we , as a parliament , make all these changes , perhaps you could go and help america count its votes !
perhaps some european union common sense will help sort out the problem and give george bush his rightful place in history - its dustbin !
mr president , commissioner , mr president of the court of auditors , ladies and gentlemen , this new report from the court of auditors which we have just received is of interest to the committee on budgetary control because it makes a number of points concerning the problems of managing the community budget , while at the same time warning us against the narrow interpretations that could be extracted from the crude exploitation of certain figures .
let me quickly expand upon three points .
first of all , there is a question of terminology : even though all too often no clear distinction is made between the notions of fraud and irregularity , the court of auditors warns us against the temptation to consider irregularities or errors as tantamount to cases of fraud .
but it must be pointed out that the court of auditors itself says that cases of fraud are few in number .
for example , there is regional vat in some member states .
the third point i would like to make concerns the debate which took place yesterday evening when the court of auditors ' presented its annual report to the committee on budgetary control .
the court of auditors was asked - and a number of speakers have reminded us of this morning - to explicitly name the member states in which fraud and irregularities have been uncovered .
we are not looking for scapegoats , either in our institutions or in our member states .
what is more , as the working method applied by the court of auditors is based on sampling , we only have a partial view of the situation .
the report from the court of auditors highlights , somewhat more so than in the past , the situation regarding the management and control of community funds by the member states .
mr president , mr president of the court of auditors , commissioner , over the last two years the court of auditors has published six special reports on the subject of the common agricultural policy .
in its special report on subsidies for the disposal of skimmed milk , it highlights a lack of supervisory measures , a level of falsification of milk data and fraudulent use of this data that is unparalleled in any other agricultural sector .
in its report on the disposal of butter , the court of auditors noted that 89 % of the budget is spent on subsidies to the food industry through procedures of dubious transparency and of even more dubious efficiency in terms of their impact on farmers ' incomes .
in both cases , this involves a limited number of countries and a limited number of economic agents , who are the direct beneficiaries of these policies .
in what has been its most important work on the common agricultural policy , the special report on arable crops , the court concluded that , from 1993 to 1997 , the community budget paid out a sum of more than eur 13 billion more than could reasonably have been expected .
the court , therefore , quite rightly concluded that support for farmers should not be provided on the basis of price , production or area , but of support for the net income of farmers or of agricultural work units .
these are excellent , high-quality documents , which are a " drop in the ocean " in a common agricultural policy that still gives special treatment to larger farmers at the expense of the smaller ones and to countries and regions at the heart of europe at the expense of peripheral countries and regions .
it is a shame that the court of auditors ' annual report , which is supposedly drawn up to reflect the most relevant aspects of the work undertaken in the course of the year through the special reports , did not include these studies and decided to concentrate on other issues on which it had not undertaken specific studies .
first of all , on the procedure for presenting the annual report to parliament and the budgetary control committee , i am happy to listen to the assurances from members of parliament that the situation this year is more satisfactory than before .
first of all i point out - not only to mr blak , rapporteur for this year 's discharge , but to mr mulder - that we have gradually changed and developed the procedure for drawing up the statement of assurance in close collaboration with this parliament and the budgetary control committee , to meet with the wishes of the committee by including in the statement of assurance the specific observations in the different budget areas .
but i should like to make it abundantly clear that a procedure of this kind has to develop very gradually so that we do not have a complete change in the method of data collation because then the value of this exercise would not meet the requirements we are set under the treaty .
a statement of assurance is a very detailed exercise , including not only specific observations on the different budget areas but also a global appraisal .
members of the budgetary control committee point out the need for more precision .
you are right that we have to be more precise in our observations .
but a delay of more than two years makes the value of this exercise very limited .
it is very difficult to be more precise when we do not have a clearance system that would give the answers that we ask for , for instance in respect of the social fund .
the court of auditors also has to change its working methods .
it was quite clear , in this particular case , that the court of first instance supported us by saying we not only have the right to mention these names but also a duty to do so .
the intention of the court of auditors is not to become a political instrument but to be an objective instrument for your political control here in parliament and we will continue to work towards this end .
i will come back to that next time when i report and give you the plan for the programme of work for next year when we see each other again .
that is why we should use other methods and adopt the approach that we have agreed on the specific observations field and bring the das exercise more in line with the other audits , not only of the court , but also of the commission and of the member states , in the clearance of accounts .
i was also thinking about florida this morning , mr van hulten , and i am thankful that i was not responsible for auditing the election procedure in that specific state .
i must comment , mr blak , on what you said .
thank you very much , mr karlsson .
the debate is closed .
perhaps the quality of the proposal is due in part to the fact that the commission consulted over 14 consumer organisations and these pointed out the difficulties there had been in implementing the 1992 directive .
and the same has happened with other proposals in the document , which to us seem acceptable .
this report was approved by a large majority in the parliamentary committee on the environment , and i shall therefore stand by the result of the committee ' s vote .
the proposals approved in the committee on the environment deal with enhancing transparency and consumer information ; ensuring the recall of products even when they are already in the hands of consumers ; limiting professional confidentiality to the bare essentials ; clarifying the definition of a safe product and a dangerous product ; including the monitoring of the safety of product installation and maintenance ( because sometimes this installation and maintenance may present a risk to consumer safety ) ; including the precautionary principle , a useful principle little used in the european union ( if it were , we would not have problems such as mad cow disease , to be examined this afternoon , the dioxin issue , or other matters relating to genetically modified products ) ; ensuring a certain harmonisation of surveillance and follow-up programmes ( it is important that member states should maintain some equality in these surveillance and follow-up programmes ) ; and in general arranging for consumers to be given information in the language of the country in which they buy the products .
mr president , unfortunately we cannot accept some amendments first tabled in the committee on the environment and now tabled here , which go against these principles .
the first concerns amendment no 4 .
it proposes removing a paragraph which simply asks producers and distributors to inform the authorities in the member states immediately if they learn of a dangerous product .
some amendments , such as nos 1 and 18 , deal with questions that basically concern the united kingdom , and it must be said that all the groups from the united kingdom , whether socialist , popular or green , have supported them vehemently and they have been approved in the committee on the environment .
they relate to a matter that is very specific to the united kingdom , that is , charity shops and sales more or less between private individuals .
mr president , i thank the commission and the council for their collaboration in the preparation of this report .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the attitude of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market towards this matter is quite different from that of the responsible committee , the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy .
i am therefore deeply grateful to the ppe group for having adopted these amendments here today and tabling them for further debate here in this chamber .
my second point is about export bans , which have previously been so highly praised .
in light of recent experience , notably the european court of justice ruling on tobacco advertising , i can really only urge this house to heed the recommendations to plenary of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , as the committee responsible for such matters .
for this simple reason we have expressed a different viewpoint , and we can only advise this chamber , on behalf of a majority of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , to accept amendments nos 38 or 41 in particular , as these relate to a weakening of export bans .
mr president , in march this year we adopted the directive on cableway installations designed to carry persons .
this demonstrates just how important legislation is here , and directives in areas as sensitive as product safety need to be implemented as soon as possible .
i hope that will happen before 3 may 2002 .
the proposal on product safety before us today is a general directive relating in particular to those areas not covered by existing directives .
i believe that this principle is enormously important for consumer protection because it makes it possible to check at any point whether a product complies with standards or not .
in addition , there is the question of what the scope of current standards in europe is and what the scope of european standards would be .
as various honourable members have already said , at the very least proof that different safety rules apply in the importing country should be accepted .
in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , under the wise guidance of our rapporteur , we passed a series of amendments which , again , my group would commend en bloc to the house today .
this proposal includes some extremely valuable general principles including the one which the other side of the chamber appears to find offensive .
that is the principle that we do not export products that we believe are unsafe for our own people in the european union .
the commission have begun to take a tentative but welcome step in that direction and perhaps the commissioner will say more about that when he replies .
the charity shops welcome the general protection of this directive .
our amendments nos 1 , 8 and 18 bear on that point .
incidentally , we support the commission ' s proposals concerning the extension of the directive 's scope of application to include services , and also the incorporation of migrated products , even though there is certainly still a lot more that could be done in these areas , which will no doubt fall to us in the future .
finally , a brief question for the commission about article 4 , which concerns european standards and the question as to whether they must be disclosed .
mr president , the proposal under consideration was certainly long-awaited .
on the other hand , it does provide for a ban on exporting products classed as dangerous , which is certainly evidence of the union 's high level of civilisation , but there is no clear indication of whether this ban is consistent with the procedure known as prior informative concert , laid down , in fact , by international conventions .
mr president , it goes without saying that we need a certain basic level of consumer protection in the european union .
a danish or german consumer has different safety requirements to a dutch or italian consumer .
most importantly - and here i am addressing the council representative - how can any safety directives be effectively implemented if the council refuses to endorse the directive on safety inspections and controls ?
mr president , i congratulate the rapporteur on her work , which addresses the fundamental concerns of consumers ' associations , which must be accepted as equal partners in a constructive dialogue .
recalling products in a situation of risk should not be done as a last resort but must begin as soon as there are reasonable grounds for taking this course of action in the light of recent scientific advances .
community standardisation must be based on appropriate scientific knowledge and we must therefore foster cooperation between member states in researching the safety of products in general and of high-risk groups in particular , such as children , the elderly , new youth cultures , new lifestyles and people with a history of illness .
the reliability of product safety and after-sale care represent added value for a " made in europe " label at a particularly difficult and crucial time .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , there has been a directive on general product safety since 1992 .
the possibility of having a product 's compliance with regulations certified by an external agency would certainly be very helpful in this case and would ensure a clearer and more logical approach .
in other sectors , this directive has been extended to other fields of application .
lack of confidence in the possibility of ensuring food safety , for example , is spreading like wildfire and , when all is said and done , obscures the union 's positive work in this sector .
in this context , it is therefore important to emphasise the political value of the directive upon which we are about to vote .
the laws on product safety , in particular the safety of those products which have hitherto escaped regulation by the vertical legislation already governing the matter , is being improved , consolidated and made more transparent .
the current commission proposal is in response to the numerous problems related to the health and safety of consumers which have occurred recently .
i would only say a few words to present the main aspects of this proposal .
the idea behind the directive is simple : that only safe products are placed on the market .
the two key objectives of the general products safety directive are : ensuring a high and consistent level of protection for consumer health and safety throughout europe and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market .
we had extensive consultations with stakeholders - as the rapporteur has acknowledged - on implementation of the present directive , which brought to light certain weaknesses which we are now trying to correct .
this also means that when new sectoral legislation is devised it supersedes the corresponding provisions of this directive .
for example , in the foodstuffs area - as you well know - when we have a food authority , the authority itself should provide a notification system which will take over from the general product safety provisions .
the present situation is less than ideal .
it is incredible , for example , that authorities in our member states are sometimes informed by the us authorities that a certain european product is dangerous .
the notification is compulsory in the united states but not , so far , in the european union .
member states will now be required to strengthen the tasks of competent surveillance authorities .
we now also provide for the possibility of opening the system to third countries , in particular to the candidate countries : simplification of procedures for emergency measures at community level so that we can take rapid action following the advice of a regulatory committee .
consumers often lack confidence because they do not know what is happening .
nothing undermines consumer confidence more than a belief that something is going on that they do not know about .
the limitation to this is professional secrecy as defined in article 287 of the treaty , except when there are overriding public health reasons .
many of the proposed amendments of the report are an improvement on the text and can therefore be accepted by the commission .
the obligations of distributors , which have been a part of the directive since 1992 , are formulated in a very generic and flexible way .
this new requirement does not imply any substantial additional responsibility in the case of these kinds of shops .
charity shops normally receive , as a gift , single used products which they in turn sell to consumers .
however , to meet the concerns raised and in order to further clarify the situation we could consider including in the recital dealing with this article a statement that it may prove impossible to provide the competent authorities with information and documentation on the possible risks and origin of the product in the case of isolated used objects donated by private individuals .
secondly , amendment no 3 proposes a deletion of part of the motivation for having clear conditions in the annex of the directive for the duty of business to inform the authorities about dangers .
thirdly , amendment no 4 proposes adding , in a preamble , a requirement that member states draw up factual reports with the cooperation of competent and independent public or private institutions .
amendments nos 6 and 29 require the commission to consider approaches or submit a proposal relating to the safety of services in amendment no 29 before a specified date .
the commission is in fact already analysing and considering this issue , but it would go too far against the commission 's right of initiative to introduce this in the directive in such a prescriptive way .
amendment no 7 proposes certain changes in the references to paragraphs .
the first part is acceptable to the commission , but it is not common practice in community legal texts to explain the content of articles referred to , as proposed .
to replace the word " producer " with " supplier , " as proposed in amendment no 11 , would create more confusion than clarity , as there is no definition of supplier in the directive .
the definition of producer already covers suppliers whose activities may affect the safety properties of the product .
amendment no 13 proposes adding a reference to the precautionary principle in the general obligation for producers to place only safe products on the market .
the precautionary principle is a general principle of risk management by the competent authorities and cannot be enforced as such as a direct obligation on producers .
although the idea of publishing a full text of the european standards in the official journal , as proposed in amendments nos 14 and 16 , is understandable , it would require fundamental changes in the relationship between the community and the european standardisation organisations , probably implying higher levels of subsidies from the community budget .
this issue , with implications for most product-related community legislation , cannot , therefore , be dealt with in the context of the current revision of this directive .
amendment no 19 proposes harmonisation of member states ' monitoring approaches on the basis of guidelines prepared by the commission and the consultative committee .
to require member states to take measures also in cases when business has already taken satisfactory measures to prevent a risk , which would be the consequence of the second part of amendment no 21 , is not acceptable .
amendment no 23 proposes the introduction in the directive of provisions on compensation in respect of damage .
a requirement that the product safety network should be established within a specified time-frame is proposed in amendment no 24 .
although the commission is in favour of quickly establishing a network , this has to be agreed between the member states .
the first part of amendment no 27 proposes that only information related to the risks that have been established should be made available to the public .
finally , amendment no 28 proposes that the commission should submit a report on the implementation of the directive every second year instead of every three years .
allow me to explain first the commission 's position on the amendments to which we cannot agree .
amendments nos 30 , 32 , 42 and the main part of amendment no 33 propose rewordings of the existing text of the directive which is not subject to revision .
amendment no 36 proposes that services directly associated with the product should be excluded except when provided by the original producer .
the discussions in council go in the direction of dealing with the services within the definition of product which is , in fact , acceptable to us .
amendment no 43 would totally exclude the application of this directive to products regulated by specific legislation .
this is not acceptable , as these directives often lack provisions on market surveillance , notification systems and so on .
a possibility of proving that a product conforms to the requirements through external certification is proposed in amendment no 37 .
such certification can always be used for providing evidence but cannot , in itself , be regarded as foolproof .
amendment no 38 proposes limiting the time period for emergency decisions to six months which is , in most cases , not sufficient for adopting permanent measures .
in addition , amendment no 41 proposes that the export ban should not apply when a product has been banned while carrying out further checks .
this is a period during which there are real dangers of exports taking place .
amendments nos 39 and 44 propose that information on dangerous products should only be available to the public once a banning or withdrawal decision has been issued and that exchange of information protected by professional secrecy should not be possible between market surveillance authorities .
as the consumer should also have the right to information about risks not yet firmly established , including in cases when the measure taken is not a ban or withdrawal , this is not acceptable either .
in addition , effective market surveillance cannot be carried out under the proposed limitations regarding confidential information .
amendment no 40 proposes a deletion of the duty for business to notify the authorities about dangerous products they place on the market .
having extensively explained why the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 8 , 11 , 13 , 14 , 16 , 18 , 19 , 23 , 24 , 28 to 30 , 32 , 33 , 36 to 43 and , in part , amendment no 7 , the second part of amendment no 21 and the first part of amendments nos 27 and 34 , i can inform you that the commission can accept amendments nos 2 , 9 , 10 , 12 , 15 , 20 , 22 , 25 , 26 , 31 and 35 and , in part , amendment no 7 , the first part of amendment no 21 and the second part of amendments nos 27 and 34 , as these amendments constitute an improvement and clarification of the commission 's proposal .
in the case of some of these amendments , however , in particular amendments nos 2 , 15 , 22 , 25 , 31 and the second part of amendment no 27 , further editorial changes might improve the text .
thank you very much , commissioner byrne .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m .
mr president , i have been a socialist in italy and in international organisations for 30 years .
mr martelli , you have had your minute .
mr president , i wish to categorically reject mr martelli 's remarks .
i would therefore urge you to vote in favour of amendment no 12 and amendment no 37 because taken together , they provide a sensible solution .
mr president , my question relates to the order of the votes on the amendments concerning paragraph 10 , in other words , the genocide in armenia .
so i suggest we draw up yesterday ' s voting list again , in other words , to vote on amendment no 13 first .
we have highly qualified people assisting us with our work .
unfortunately we are not in a position to welcome that yet . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) report ( a5-0275 / 2000 ) by mr jove peres , on behalf of the committee on fisheries , on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on community participation in regional fisheries organisations ( rfos ) com ( 1999 ) 613 - c5-0108 / 2000 - 2000 / 2068 ( cos ) ) ( parliament adopted the resolution ) explanations of vote motion for a resolution ( b5-0845 / 2000 ) mr president , i gave my explanation of vote in writing but , in addition , i would like to say that i find it truly hard to believe that , precisely in the context of this report , parliament voted against a series of amendments this morning which called , for example , for respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
the delays in implementing the agreements can only be partly justified .
it is in consideration of this dual responsibility that i tabled amendments referring to the governments of the euromed states .
if they do not assume their responsibility and make good their undertaking , there can be no project creating a multilateral sub-regional free trade area in the mediterranean countries , as proposed at the malta conference in the context of south-south relations .
with regard to respect for the dignity of legal immigrants , in the spirit of a harmonised european migration policy , in addition to legal instruments guaranteeing the fair treatment of immigrants , financial aid instruments need to be established for all those young people who wish to return to their native countries to start work when they have finished secondary education or a university course in a european country .
coordination of member states ' initiatives in this matter is becoming essential and could be carried out by the european commission .
another type of coordination concerns potential contributors - states and financial institutions - of international and regional aid , particularly in the gulf countries .
eriksson report ( a5-0294 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for this report , which lays down the action to be taken by the european community in order to bring about genuine gender equality .
the member states must also respect women in their laws on widows ' and married women 's pensions .
mr president , despite the progress made in recent years within the european union , within this europe that champions human rights , structural discrimination on the grounds of sex still exists .
but all the declarations concerning ' equal opportunities for men and women ' are cast in a rather garish light by the european directive authorising night work for women .
the ban on night work for women was one of those rare areas in which , by protecting women , the social legislation of certain countries was further advanced for female than for male workers .
if this is going to be possible , we must encourage this effective participation not just at community level , but also in the member states .
as the rapporteur states , it is important that the commission considers the fact that a prerequisite of any genuine democracy is that all its citizens - men and women alike - should participate and be represented in equal measure in economic life , in decision-making forums , in social and cultural life and in civil society .
the commission must nevertheless bear in mind that no work on gender equality will have a lasting effect unless women ' s rights are improved , specifically in everyday practices in all spheres of activity . . ( de ) in order to ensure equality of opportunities between women and men in cultural , social and economic life , and to minimise and prevent discrimination on grounds of gender , the commission has adopted a twin-track approach of which the committee on women 's rights and equal opportunities approves .
as you are aware , the committee on budgets has identified this ngo as a monopoly .
gonzalez alvarez report ( a5-0309 / 2000 ) mr president , there are several reasons why i voted against the gonzalez alvarez report but , in order to keep within the minute allowed for this explanation of vote , i will mention only one .
as i left , i said to her , " don 't worry : we are going to debate the gonzalez alvarez report which deals precisely with product safety . "
thus , we are opposed in principle to the original directive and must therefore oppose any extension of it .
what particularly disturbs us are the plans revealed by commissioner byrne to develop a network of enforcement authorities to help implement this law .
having seen proposals for " networks " elsewhere in community initiatives , we see in this the beginnings of something which is altogether unhealthy - a unified enforcement system amounting to a european union consumer law enforcement service .
this report welcomes an improvement in current european law on product safety , but in my view the directive should not be applied to charity shops , a key feature in the british high street .
lagendijk report ( a5-0324 / 2000 ) mr president , the council quite rightly hoped to rationalise eu aid to the balkan states and to reform the european agency for the reconstruction of kosovo , whose competence could gradually be extended to cover the entire region .
the european parliament has rallied to the call of its old friend and has just voted for amendments in its favour .
amendment no 5 proposes returning the running of the agency to the commission , which would be responsible to the european parliament .
amendment no 14 weakens the governing board vis-a-vis the commission , by stipulating that its decisions are adopted by simple majority .
amendment no 10 extends the tasks of the agency , which is now effectively controlled by the commission .
finally , amendment no 15 gives the commission free rein in determining the rules governing the languages used by the agency , about which we are very concerned .
mr president , both as a member of the european people 's party and as a member of the pensioners ' party in italy , i was very happy to vote for this major report on european union aid - and the management thereof - to albania , croatia , bosnia , montenegro , serbia and kosovo .
kosovo has the right to decide about its future independently and in partnership with its neighbours .
at the same time , we should : 1 .
garot report ( a5-0305 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the garot report , although there are many gaps and inaccuracies which the pensioners ' party does not support .
in particular , i would call upon the commission to decide to put forward new , different types of proposals in order to resolve the problems suffered by agriculture and livestock farmers .
the proposal is unnecessary and harmful because it introduces a new form of aid for a sector which has so far acquitted itself well without aid .
parliament ' s report will introduce still more aid schemes .
we are therefore voting against both the commission ' s proposal and parliament ' s report .
once the vote has been taken , this report on the common organisation of the market in pigmeat will simply add to the tonnes of paper of common agricultural market legislation .
we are opposed to the market economy , which is just as stupid and disastrous in regulating the economy as a whole as it is in regulating the production of pigmeat .
the garot report is an attempt to improve on some aspects of the commission ' s proposal , by seeking to reach a compromise with the council , specifically with regard to a financial contribution to the fund .
the lack of a regulatory system accentuated this movement in favour of large , often integrated , production units .
we believe we should support them by creating efficient tools not only to resolve the crises but also to better control the markets , improve quality and promote their products .
the creation of a regulatory fund for pigmeat production , as amended , does not place the free market in the balance but will protect small family holdings . - ( nl ) the pigmeat market is cyclical .
a slight variation in the supply is enough to spark a crisis situation .
however , the crises have been more drawn out in recent years and have had a terrible impact on young and small-scale pig farmers in particular .
in addition , such funds give member states the opportunity , in the form of co-financing , to grant capped state aid to a greater or lesser extent .
these are the reasons we voted against the proposal .
reducing production is the key to dealing with crises in the pig farming sector .
morillon report ( a5-0297 / 2000 ) mr president , i am very critical at this time when we have to decide upon relations between the european union and turkey .
even though i voted for the motion , i would like to emphasise certain points which i feel that we should always bear in mind in this situation .
secondly , turkey is no longer alone against greece but alone against the european union .
this house is always talking about rights - the charter was adopted yesterday - but when it comes to the application of these rights , not so much in practical terms but at least in terms of upholding them , parliament takes alarming steps backwards which are certainly no credit to it .
franz werfel had jewish and german-bohemian relatives .
this goes to show that one disaster can trigger off the next .
there is a positive reference to the loizidou case and the judgment of the european court of human rights in strasbourg .
this is also in the interests of the turkish people who would like to live in peace with their neighbours .
the truth is that neither the rapporteur nor european governments want to offend the military who , in reality , govern turkey and reduce a section of the country to a state of emergency .
what is at stake is not even the acknowledgement of the reality of armenian genocide , since this house has already had occasion to express its views on this , most notably in its resolution of june 1987 .
what the members of the european parliament asked of turkey in 1987 was to have the courage to open its eyes to the past so as to be able to look to the future .
acknowledging genocide must be a call for dialogue to be established between the new armenian and turkish generations .
europe must spread this message . - ( fr ) it was at the european council meeting in helsinki in december 1999 that the european union decided to grant turkey the status of candidate country for accession to the european union and to establish an accession partnership and a single financial framework with a view to helping turkey 's application to progress in accordance with the copenhagen criteria .
i am primarily thinking of the resumption of the political dialogue in the association council , which met on 11 april 2000 after being suspended for three years , and the establishment of eight subcommittees entrusted with the task of setting priorities for incorporation of the acquis communautaire , the signature by turkey on 15 august and 8 september 2000 of four important un conventions , on political , civil , social and cultural rights respectively , which must be ratified as soon as possible so that human rights and democratic pluralism may be guaranteed in that country , the turkish council of ministers ' adoption of the report presented by the turkish supreme coordination council for human rights , as a ' reference working document ' , even if practical measures to protect the rights of minorities need to be added , and the adoption of the law on adjourning trials and deferring sentences for press and radio broadcasting offences .
but there are still many areas where progress is unsatisfactory , or indeed non-existent .
if turkey wants to enter into accession negotiations , it still needs to make a great deal of effort .
this once again raises the question of whether turkey really wants to be a member of the european union , or whether it would prefer to organise an integrated ' whole ' with other middle east countries , which would have very close links with the european union at the commercial and economic level , at the security and stability level and also at the human rights and democratic rules level .
sadly , many issues are still unresolved such as those related to the kurdish and armenian situations and to full respect for civil rights , although a great deal of progress has been made in these fields .
the union must be more proactive and treat enlargement to include turkey as a vital geopolitical strategy .
the genocide in armenia is one such horror and such suffering can only be alleviated if it is recognised .
we cannot forget the deportation of the entire armenian population to the deserts of mesopotamia , the deportation of the armenians of eastern anatolia in 24 hours , the shooting of able-bodied men , the persecution of women , children and old people , who covered hundreds of kilometres on foot , without medical care and without food , divested of their belongings , raped , their throats slit on the open road , the deportation in 1915 of the armenians of cilicia and eastern anatolia , the assassination of 600 armenian prominent citizens in constantinople , the extermination of more than a million armenians in just over a year - in other words , almost half the ottoman armenians .
i remember the 1987 resolution which called on turkey to acknowledge the armenian genocide as a precondition to its accession to the european union .
i remember the exact text of the conclusions of the presidency in paragraph 12 : " turkey is a candidate country destined to join the union on the basis of the same criteria as applied to candidate countries " .
nonetheless , the system that has been put in place will do its work and will impose its logic on us until the time comes when this awkward position will become so untenable that our relations with turkey will be in serious and deep crisis .
it is simply a question of recognising that geography and history have made present-day turkey a country that is not european .
in the face of stark realities , it is about fully respecting the dignity of the turkish people by not seeking to impose on it a behaviour which it must adopt of its own accord , and by seeking to jointly develop close cooperation .
jove peres report ( a5-0275 / 2000 ) mr president , as you are aware , the news is spreading throughout the world of fish that i am promoting their cause .
the countries of europe , as a whole , have the same number of votes as cuba , for example .
this situation does not worry the federalists for whom , when the commission speaks with a single voice , we gain in strength .
what is more , our position is often weakened by our internal mechanisms , notably prior alignment to the lowest common denominator .
on the whole , our interests are undermined , they are not defended with the necessary force , and the role of the commission is primarily that of a police officer vis-a-vis member states to get them to apply the binding decisions that have been adopted , sometimes in spite of themselves , in the regional organisation in question .
the jove peres report would not only like to regularise this situation for existing regional organisations and those that are in the process of being established , it would also like to reinforce it by putting paid to the commission ' s habit of calling on the support of technical experts from different member states .
we cannot accept any of these approaches .
the european union is not a confederation of states but a ' sui generis ' entity in international law , in which ...
there is a desire for economic , social and political integration .... "
in this context , it appears necessary to increase international cooperation and ensure that the community consolidates its undertaking to define a law on fish stocks .
the principle tool for achieving closer cooperation is the regional fisheries organisations ( rfos ) , which play a key role on the international scene but which lack the human resources for the community to be adequately represented .
the rfos are particularly suitable for achieving the objectives established because of their regional nature , but , above all , they contribute to the rational management of resources by reflecting the specific characteristics of the fishing areas .
my comments naturally apply to the issue before us today , the representation of the european community within regional fisheries organisations , but they apply equally to talks conducted for example within the world trade organisation .
if the commission has the power to represent the community and to negotiate in an international context , it is because it has received a mandate from the council .
in a good many cases , such as fishing in certain regions of the world , the interests of member states are not uniform .
what is important therefore is not to satisfy the commission ' s desire for domination by weakening the position of europe , which would be in direct conflict with the correct application of the principle of subsidiarity .
but although i am upbeat about the outcome of this directive , it cannot conceal the fact that waste incineration is an emergency solution .
according to the commission ' s green paper , incinerating pvc waste gives rise to a number of problems .
finally , i anticipate our being able to tighten up the waste incineration directive in a few years ' time , in close consultation with industry .
the objective of this proposal , which aims to replace three directives relating to waste incineration , is to improve air , water and soil quality and human health by reducing emissions of pollutants linked to incineration and co-incineration , notably dioxins , furans and heavy metals .
this proposal also allows for the integration of the technical progress that has been achieved since the 1990s .
overall , the result of the conciliation process is very pleasing .
the emission limit values for incineration and co-incineration plants have been brought into line , while taking account of the technical differences between these two activities .
i have always been in agreement with the joint draft which regards these two systems as complementary and not competing .
nonetheless , we are satisfied with this third reading , because it reinforces the operation authorisation conditions .
our group , which wanted to avoid the confusion between hazardous and non-hazardous waste , recognises that the current text clearly provides for different recovery and treatment processes , which are adapted to the types of waste involved .
we all know that it has been a long and very difficult process putting together the requirements for the incineration of both hazardous and non-hazardous waste .
i want to draw attention to just three important objectives we can achieve by means of the directive .
it will no longer be so financially attractive to export waste to other places in the community where waste handling requirements are less strict .
the end result is that we now have a reasonably balanced proposal for imposing strict limits regarding the incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste , improving the environment and enabling waste to also be used in the production of electricity and heat .
a directive on the incineration of waste will increase the costs of burning waste , but will cut hazardous emissions and improve the state of the environment .
with the toughening of legislation on landfill there has been significant increase in waste incineration , and i know from my own experience in my constituency in wales that incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste is as much a concern , in terms of its effects on health and the environment , as is landfill .
in particular , i welcome the commitment to improving public access to information on incineration plants and the obligation on plant operators to publish an annual report on emissions .
overall , this much needed legislation will put in place safeguards to limit the worst effects of incineration on health and the environment and , i hope , discourage incineration-for-profit , which depends on the creation of more and more waste .
thus , in the conciliation process we were able to agree that plants that incinerate more than two tons per hour should publish a report on their emissions each year and smaller incineration plants should be included in the lists that would come under public scrutiny .
the limit values for emissions in the annex to the directive were definitely the most difficult point .
i myself succeeded in having some amendments made to the report , vital for the continuation of co-incineration practices that have been in place in finland for years and which are more ecological than those contained in the directive that is now about to be approved .
this directive will lead to significant reductions in emissions in several key pollutants across the european union , despite the fact that the volume of waste incineration will increase over the coming years .
the conciliation process was demanding , but a well-balanced compromise has been found and the amendments of parliament and the council have produced a better directive .
the scope of the directive is much clearer .
let me remind you that the directive is only one instrument in the whole waste-management concept of the commission .
burning waste is the final stage in the treatment of waste , due to the waste hierarchy , and the commission will make strong efforts to reduce and recycle waste and in its approach to an integrated product policy .
in conclusion , this directive is a major contribution to the reduction of negative effects on the environment and the risks they pose to human health .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
today , member states , while retaining their own responsibilities through the direct application of the subsidiarity principle , nevertheless have problems in common which justify a debate at european level .
however diverse national situations may be , one can recognise in all member states a more or less general reduction in statutory cover , an enhanced role for supplementary health insurance schemes and a marked increase in discriminating factors .
starting from the principle that every individual has a right to medical care and that healthcare is a social good to which all member states must provide access , it is unacceptable that some are forced to simply abandon healthcare , allowing unwholesome systems to take their place which are disastrous for our societies .
the employment and social policy council adopted a european strategy for the fight against social exclusion in luxembourg on 17 october .
the european charter of fundamental rights , which will be officially announced at the nice summit , recognises the right to social security and to health protection as a common reference value .
to this end , i sought the opinion of the economic and social committee , which greatly clarified a number of points in a communication which was adopted with a very large majority .
the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the proposals of the draftsman , ioannis marinos , gave rise to a large number of debates and favoured the adoption of compromise texts .
a broad consensus was finally reached within the committee on employment and social affairs , which i have the honour of chairing .
this will preferably be in the form of proposals for recommendations to include the following points : recognition by member states of a common concept of a universal service to govern the basic service which will enable every european citizen to have access to the necessary care ; establishing , in agreement with the private insuring bodies , guaranteed respect for the principle of non-discrimination ; organising a system of pooling costs in order to cover the costs of persons and groups with serious existing diseases , and encouraging private insurers to develop preventative measures .
however , they are also needed in order to compensate for the increasing shortcomings of national health services as the result of public-sector management , high costs and cutbacks in expenditure by governments , expenditure which has steadily decreased in all the member states during the 1980s and at the beginning of the 1990s .
as in the past , these gaps are being filled and the increase in the demand for better health services is being increasingly covered by subsidiary and voluntary supplementary health schemes set up by public- or private-sector agencies on a profit-making or non-profit-making basis .
with its kohll and decker decrees , the court of justice has sent a clear message to the eu member states .
this issue has one or two implications for us , but it will also have an impact on the national systems .
because it is very important .
i also think the rocard report has made a breakthrough on that score , but it is very important for the commission to take up the initiative now , and come to the table with an actual green paper .
however , equal access to health care must be available to everyone , without exception .
for instance , we see that in the us system , health costs as measured against gross domestic product are nearly twice as high as the eu average , and that in the united states there are still some 40 million people who have inadequate health insurance .
it would be wrong if the eu were to devise rules concerning , for example , data relating to health , or requiring everyone to be insured and , in that way , destroy the multiplicity of supplementary health insurance schemes which exist today in many countries and operate on actuarial principles .
this view turns up its nose at the non-profit-making mutual insurance companies , which are vital players in supplementary health insurance in several member states .
the report by michel rocard , which is being presented today as amended in committee , demonstrates the difficulty of overcoming these contradictions .
the increasing transfer of responsibilities from the basic systems to the supplementary health insurance systems is doubly disadvantageous in that it reduces the obligations of these systems , while at the same time weakening non-profit-making mutual insurance companies which reject risk selection .
with human genetic mapping , it is necessary to prohibit genetic tests and the use of their results before the conclusion or during the term of a supplementary health protection contract .
the same applies to the health of all the citizens of our member states and the cohesion of our territories .
regional inequalities in terms of development are glaring enough .
mr president , i would like to echo the sentiments of those who have congratulated michel rocard on this excellent initiative , which is in the best tradition of parliament ' s committee on employment and social affairs .
the report is based on the intention expressed by the council in 1992 to achieve convergence of objectives and policies in the sphere of social security , and it links these with the existing objectives announced in lisbon with regard to social cohesion and economic progress .
i expressly included a third element in my contribution in the committee , which i believe makes another strong case for european action in the field of health insurance ; in particular , the removal of obstacles to freedom of movement , and not just the free movement of services that bartho pronk talked about , but also the free movement of persons within the eu .
an opinion is being prepared on this in the social and economic council .
it looks as if employers and employees are at last to reach agreement on basic health insurance in which market forces and competition between insurers will be combined with agreements on a compulsory basic package and , in addition , a broad package with optional elements which must , at the very least , be subject to an acceptance obligation and an average premium .
the logic of this is that all health care not included in this basic insurance has to be covered by private supplementary health insurance .
supplementary health insurance schemes must provide protection against the risk of bankruptcy , insolvency and fraud , but should not serve as an excuse for limiting the range of services provided by statutory health insurance .
mr president , i should also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his own-initiative report , particularly because it is precisely that : an own-initiative report .
but above all he draws attention , for example in paragraph 3 , to the significant problems regarding the long-term sustainability of public health care systems throughout the eu because of the increasing cost of advances in treatment possibilities , as well as the growing demand from an increasingly elderly population .
his report is a useful contribution to that debate , though i hope he agrees in turn that the contributions made in committee , including those made on this side of the house , may perhaps have made it even more useful .
health care is financed in different ways in different member states and the roles of private health insurers are correspondingly different .
we really are on a tightrope and i think that decisions on supplementary insurance which will apply to all the member states need to be taken cautiously and with a great deal of circumspection .
in this sense , i think that , basically , we should await the commission study on current systems as well as a commission study on the american system and the schemes in operation in other countries because then we shall have a clearer picture of all this .
mr president , those of us who have devoted ourselves all our lives to studying social issues will remember that the old manuals used to include a definition of social protection as a set of state protection measures to cover economically assessable risks affecting individuals or families which individuals - family units - could not cover themselves .
it is , moreover , a fact that social systems - protection systems - have been suffering from the influences and consequences of economic , demographic and public health situations , etc .
and it is also a fact that economic recession , unemployment , social exclusion , the appearance of new diseases , the ageing of the population , as well as advances in research , improved therapies , the development of new techniques of diagnosis and treatment have all had a profound effect on the levels of mandatory social and health cover .
articles 34 and 35 of our fledgling european union charter of fundamental rights recognise and respect the entitlement to social security benefits and social services and , at the same time , proclaim the entitlement of everyone residing and moving legally within the union to social security benefits and social advantages in accordance with community law and national laws and practices .
complementary private health insurance , whether voluntary or not , coexists with the mandatory public system and can be a way to achieve quality health care within a given time .
this report and its accompanying amendments would like to impose rules to prevent forms of selection , based on criteria of health or handicap , on sharks such as the insurance company , axa , which has multiplied the contributions paid by parents of mentally handicapped children by a factor of ten .
imposing such rules is the very minimum necessary and we will vote in favour , but we have no intention of accepting the fact that this proposal releases member states from their duty to carry out a literally crucial task in terms of a public health service .
in order to avoid any misunderstandings , i would once again like to stress that the present report concerns supplementary health insurance and not health care as such , although obviously the two cannot be separated .
supplementing collective solidarity mechanisms with private or group insurance is completely in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity .
so information has been gathered , research has been carried out , the systems in the various member states have been investigated , etc . , which is certainly the right way to go about it .
the new proposal before us is for a green paper .
this is better than the original proposal but even this is a step too far .
the commission welcomes this initiative and it comes at crucial time because we have just launched a political debate at the european level on the reform of social protection .
it is the first time that we have decided that there is a need for cooperation on reform of social protection systems at the european level .
this report underlines the economic and social challenges posed by the measures relating to supplementary health insurance and , of course , supplementary health insurance is of vital importance nowadays because the basic insurance system is ripe for reform and because healthcare needs are becoming greater and greater .
there are huge differences from member state to member state as far as the definition is concerned , as far as the functioning of the systems are concerned , the combination between the public and the private sector .
as an example , as far as the differences in the role played by voluntary and supplementary health insurance is concerned , the coverage of the population by voluntary or supplementary health insurance mechanisms ranges from under 0.5 % in sweden to more than 85 % in france .
however , these figures are somewhat misleading since both the concept and the coverage of the system differ significantly from country to country .
the commission will act immediately in the framework of its competences and i will try to reply to the conclusions of your report .
however , it is essential to draw up an in-depth report on the situation and we can do this as soon as possible .
of course , we will take into account the wide variety of national systems and the complex nature of healthcare systems across europe .
the commission will immediately launch a study of supplementary health insurance .
this study can form the basis for a communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament proposing initiatives or measures .
we can go from general questions such as access to healthcare for all , to the more specific questions on the rights of individuals who want to settle or work in other member states .
as far as the other two proposals are concerned - the directive , the legal action , and this european forum - this is something we can think about .
it could form the second step after this study in one year 's time when we not only have the comparison between member states but we could also work with comparable indicators which are important for any proposals for european cooperation .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon .
in fact , the proposal for a community programme presented by the commission to foster cooperation between the member states in the field of combating social exclusion is little more than a study programme .
it is crucial to guarantee good-quality employment with reasonable rights and wages and to establish conditions for access to public services that are also of high quality .
it is crucial for the council to keep the promises it has given , not only with regard to the programme , but also with regard to setting appropriate objectives and goals , to be agreed on by the end of this year , so that it meets the expectations it created with the lisbon summit conclusions on its commitment to combat poverty , unemployment and social exclusion .
lastly , i wish to express my gratitude for the superb cooperation of my fellow members of the committee on employment and social affairs , of the rapporteurs from other committees , of the economic and social committee , of the committee of the regions , of the ngos involved in social work and of the specialists within the commission , the french presidency and parliament who have worked with me .
i thank you for your understanding during this procedure , which means that we are able to contribute to the european union once again having a programme in this field , despite its limitations and shortcomings .
mr president , first of all i would like to thank mrs figueiredo for her report .
secondly , i would like to say how delighted i am that a compromise has indeed been reached on this important report , which means that the first reading can be brought to a successful conclusion .
setting up a committee alone will lead to a six month delay in the establishment of the programme .
the committee on budgets insists that technical support be included in the programme .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the committee on economic and monetary affairs would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report .
thirdly , the member states must , at long last , as requested and initiated in lisbon , agree on concrete targets and benchmarks , so that parliament can carry out its role as a guardian and as an animateur in this process .
we support the various elements of the programme , such as a multidimensional approach to this phenomenon , measures on health , education , housing , cohesion and complementarity with other related policies and the involvement of both non-governmental organisations and the very people who are subject to social exclusion .
we support increasing the budget to eur 100 000 000 and we attach great importance to the need for the programme to be carried out at grass roots level .
the equal opportunities committee stressed the need to take account in the programme of the fact that women are particularly vulnerable to social exclusion , particularly special categories of women such as immigrants , women with special needs , unemployed women , women with no modern vocational training and single mothers .
we must monitor the application of the programme and its evaluation very closely , commissioner , because we believe that it will help to achieve the objective we are all striving towards - the objective of a social europe , a citizens ' europe .
updating the stability programmes in germany , finland and the netherlands the next item is the commission recommendations for a council opinion on updating the stability programmes in germany , finland and the netherlands .
mr president , the commission has today adopted three recommendations regarding three council opinions on the updated stability programmes in germany , the netherlands and finland ; these are the first of the 2000-2001 round that have been updated and submitted .
as you will remember , the stability and growth pact stipulates close , on-going supervision of the member states ' budgetary position during the third phase of economic and monetary union .
the central elements in this supervision process are the stability programmes , which the member states in the euro area have to present every year .
the countries outside the euro area present their convergence programmes , which to a great extent resemble the stability programmes , although the objectives to be achieved are different .
the aim of this initiative , as you will remember , is to try to create sufficient margin so that in a crisis situation the government deficit will not exceed the reference budget deficit set at 3 % of gdp , which could obviously be reached in a crisis phase .
in their updating of the programmes each year , the member states include an extra year in the programme , analyse the budget policy implemented during the past year , explain and describe the budget policy measures they have adopted , and also revise their budget forecasts and objectives .
the document presented by a member state is assessed by the commission and , on the basis of this assessment , the council may adopt the recommendation that the commission presents .
more and more member states are reaching balanced or even clearly positive budgetary positions .
this has given us a different idea , making us wonder whether this stability and growth pact has run its course , having achieved the quantitative objective of a particular final figure , or whether it is worth introducing other aspects relating to the quality of public finances in future programmes .
the commission has opted for this second possibility ; hence , in our annual assessment , we shall now also review other aspects previously not considered in the past : first , the orientation of budget policy in each of the member states according to the point in the cycle at which it finds itself , that is , whether these kinds of budgetary measures are procyclic or anticyclic in nature and to what extent they help the market situation or create tensions within it .
thus , for instance , problems such as the ageing of the population are becoming increasingly more important .
in this respect may i just remind you that the last ecofin council asked the commission to include in the assessment of the stability programmes from next year precisely this long-term aspect of public finances in connection with the ageing of the population .
of the three programmes on which i am about to comment , one of them - the netherlands programme - already includes an annex with a specific analysis of this particular problem .
i am now going to give a very brief mention of the three programmes that have recently been updated .
the three countries plan to introduce major tax cuts in 2001 and in subsequent years , which will relieve the tax pressure on labour and stimulate employment and investment ; they are therefore positive and necessary provided that the public finances are kept stable .
germany and the netherlands both foresee a deterioration in their budget positions for the next year as a result of these tax cuts .
this issue is particularly important in the case of germany since it means the gradual reduction of the public deficit will be interrupted .
in the case of the netherlands , the commission has other concerns , such as the suitability of the policy mix and the risks associated with the fiscal incentive effects of the tax cuts in a situation of strong economic growth , which might lead to the netherlands economy overheating .
both countries have very consistently made proper use of this revenue by using it to reduce the national debt .
because of this factor and , more importantly , better budgetary positions and stronger economic growth , there will be a clear tendency for the proportions of national debt to fall over the coming years .
this year , for instance , germany hopes to bring this proportion down to the reference level of 60 % of gdp , and the netherlands hopes to bring it even lower than that this year .
these trends in the national debt mean lower interest payments , which will , in turn , help provide the necessary framework for tax cuts , and in some cases for specific increases in public spending .
based on its own programme , the netherlands government is to make important decisions on the use of its budget margins , and it would be appropriate if it used these resources to bring the national debt down more quickly , which would give it greater margins to face these problems in the future .
in the last two countries , the programmes were adopted at the same time as the budget proposals for the coming year , which in the commission ' s opinion is a more suitable practice than used to happen , when we received these updates after each country ' s budget had been presented .
this ensures that the annual budget decisions are made within a multiannual strategic framework and gives the community institutions an up-to-date , overall view of each country ' s economic situation based on the most recent data .
the commission therefore recommends that the remaining member states that are still preparing their updates should follow this example , not this year , when unfortunately it can no longer happen , but in future years .
these are the basic comments that i wished to make on the three programmes we present today .
mr president , commissioner , we are grateful to you for your report on trends in net government borrowing in the european union , mr solbes mira .
we have noted that this development is taking place in the largest country in the euro area , whereas the netherlands and finland have already achieved what we are seeking , that is budget surpluses which enable excessive debt to be repaid .
basically , because of the positive impact that the tax measures may have in germany .
germany has a higher than average tax burden .
the set of tax measures adopted by germany affects the supply side of the economy more than the demand side but will also have some effect on demand , and we believe it will allow the growth potential of the german economy to increase in the medium term .
hence we must insist on the german government taking special care when drawing up the working programmes for 2002 , on increasing revenue and on cutting costs in order to achieve a reduction in the budget deficit again .
we must not forget that we have had a double setback in the last year , as a result of oil prices trebling in little more than a year .
i shall be able to comment on this in more detail after the 22nd , when we present our economic perspective for the coming year , but according to our initial estimates , in 2000 we shall end up with an average level of inflation a little above the inflation target laid down by the central bank , but clearly higher than what we had forecast in our april perspective - we had talked of 1.8 % then .
commissioner , you rightly - in my opinion - placed great emphasis in your speech on the problem represented by the ageing population , both for the three countries in question and all the other european countries as well , and you touched upon the need to tackle the issue of the ageing population and therefore the question of the pension deficit , which is an unknown quantity weighing heavily upon the public finances of the european countries , hindering recovery , and it will do so increasingly in the future .
in last july 's publication , the european central bank indicated a way , in the social security plans reform - that is , moving from the current " pay-as-you-go " system to a funded system for mandatory contributions as well - of freeing up resources and , in perspective , ensuring the sustainability of european social security plans .
the report emphasises the fact that the reforms carried out so far in the social security systems are helping to improve the situation .
as for the solution that can be adopted , it will , of course , be a national decision to be made in each of the member states ; the commission will not make any proposals in this regard .
first they are moving towards a search for some system for financing the pay-as-you-go schemes , which may mean some element of pre-funding ; i mentioned the dutch system before , which already has obvious pre-funding elements .
they are also moving towards making a public pay-as-you-go scheme compatible with private pre-funding schemes , and of course they are also compatible with support for the setting up of specific investment funds , which may obtain long-term tax advantages and may help to deal with the ageing problem .
as you know , yesterday the french government adopted national measures to strengthen health safety , including the suspension of the use of animal meal in feed for pigs and poultry .
the council of the european union is also playing an active role , in concert with the european parliament and the european commission , in updating and constantly reinforcing europe ' s raft of measures to prevent and combat this disease .
it is important to take stock of the situation with regard to the fight against bse in the broader context of food safety developments in europe .
yesterday , then , in paris , the french government announced an intensification of national health safety measures .
two facts have increased concerns about meal of animal origin in animal feed .
the hypothesis of the accidental or fraudulent cross contamination of these animals by meal of animal origin has been put forward .
that is why the french government decided to suspend the use of meat-and-bone meal in feed for pigs , poultry , fish and domestic animals .
the methods of control will be strengthened along the entire food chain .
we propose that the commission and the european union should thus undertake to extend these tests at a european level , in the light of scientific recommendations .
the progress of research is a crucial factor in improving our knowledge of bse as well as in its prevention and treatment .
that is why the efforts that have been made since 1997 in terms of research will be extended and broadened .
the current unpopularity of beef consumption is reflected in a significant imbalance in the market .
france has asked that the situation of the beef market be included on the agenda of the agriculture council , which will take place in brussels on 20 and 21 november .
this very day in brussels , the experts on the standing veterinary committee at the european commission have been meeting with a view to preparing ways of extending the european programme for carrying out screening tests on cattle .
this meeting of veterinary experts at the commission is especially useful in the run-up to the next agriculture council , which will take place on 20 and 21 november under the chairmanship of my fellow minister , jean glavany .
the results of this first debate will be presented to the council on 20 november .
the key issue is to restore the confidence of european consumers in beef .
the presidency has also planned to hold , during the same meeting , an open debate on food safety on the basis of work in progress , current developments regarding the crisis and recent proposals from the commission on hygiene and food law , particularly on setting up a european food agency .
all these measures relate to bse in both cattle and sheep and to scrapie in small ruminants .
by the same token , the commission has put forward measures on food hygiene , which are under examination both in the council and in parliament .
the commission ' s very recent proposal on food law and the setting up of a european food agency will be debated extensively during the internal market , consumers and tourism council to be held on 30 november , which i will be chairing , with a view to devising guidelines for the operation of this agency .
the european parliament recently took up a position on the commission white paper , which foreshadows the establishment of this agency .
i am sure that your parliamentary calendar will take full account of the need to move ahead more quickly so that , as suggested by the commission , we can have a european food agency by 2002 .
as soon as this proposal to set up the european food agency was presented by the commission on 8 november , the presidency enlisted the work of the council .
two meetings of the council group were held on 9 and 14 november to prepare the general debate , which will take place on 30 november in the council .
the european food agency will also provide clear and accessible information on issues arising out of its mandate .
however , events in france over the past week clearly call for an earlier discussion of these events .
there has been a worrying increase in the number of cases of bse detected in france over the past year , in part due to the introduction of targeted testing .
clearly , we need to look at these developments and draw the appropriate lessons .
however , this relatively low incidence is no reason for complacency .
the fact is that the incidence is rising in several member states .
let me briefly outline my main observations in this respect .
all member states should follow the french example .
i will return to this point later .
a lack of clarity and transparency in addressing the issue has contributed hugely to this unfortunate situation .
finally , we must not overlook the huge progress in recent years , in the past year in particular , in putting in place a framework to tackle bse .
inspired by this parliament , the commission has been the driving force in pressing for the adoption of measures to eradicate bse .
and this was done notwithstanding the frequent lack of support in member states .
the proposal adopted by the commission last week on the establishment of a european food authority is an even more significant initiative .
i expect a strong endorsement of the commission 's proposals on the food authority from the european council in nice - and i note what you , madam president , said on that issue only very recently .
parliament can equally signal its commitment to the proposal by giving it the highest priority with a view to its adoption in the shortest possible time .
the commission view that targeted testing is essential in establishing a true picture of the real incidence of bse in the community has been fully vindicated by the test results in france .
the commission intends to put proposals to the agriculture council on monday next , which will fully answer public demands in this respect .
the implications of recent events for the community measures on meat-and-bone meal are also at issue .
clearly , explanations are necessary for the increased incidence of bse , not only in france but also in other member states .
i look forward to the forthcoming opinion of afssa , the french food safety agency , which will help inform the decision of the french authorities on whether this provisional measure needs to be continued .
the evidence still strongly suggests that the increased incidence in some member states has its origin in the period before the introduction of reinforced controls in 1996 and subsequently .
and it is certainly the case that the current controls are very strict .
it is unacceptable on public health grounds .
the commission , for its part , will continue to impress on member states the importance of this issue .
the commission 's food and veterinary office already affords top priority to member states ' controls in relation to protective measures against bse .
for example , the requirement to remove and destroy srms only entered into force from 1 october 2000 and i want urgent on-the-ground confirmation that this requirement is being enforced .
parliament 's assistance in this respect would also be most welcome in alerting the public in the member states to the importance of these controls .
this proposal provides the opportunity for putting in place a comprehensive framework to ensure that all the relevant issues relating to animal waste are addressed .
again , i hope to work with parliament in putting this proposal on the statute book as a matter of urgency .
let me add a few comments on what i said earlier in this respect .
in the situation confronting us it is always tempting to look to a magic solution , a solution which can , in one step , both eliminate risk and restore confidence .
this parliament also accepts that there is a place for meat-and-bone meal produced under safe conditions .
parliament acknowledged that in its report on bse in 1997 and i quote : " the recycling of carcasses and slaughter waste by the production of meat-and-bone meal for animal feed offers the best alternative on economic , environmental and health policy grounds . "
if there is a weakness in the controls , clearly there is a problem .
i welcome in this respect that prime minister jospin yesterday also announced a substantial strengthening of controls on the food chain including a big increase in staff .
i will be asking member states on monday if there are concerns that weaknesses in the implementation of controls over the past several years , in contravention of the community legislation in the matter , are a factor in the current increased incidence of bse .
finally , madam president , i would add that the commission has recently presented a proposal to parliament under codecision for a regulation on animal waste .
this proposal aims at putting in place a community framework which will address all relevant issues governing the treatment of animal waste , especially its use in animal feed .
it is notable that in the discussions that have taken place already on this proposal with the member states , a ban on the feeding of meat-and-bone meal to animals has not been suggested as a necessary measure .
instead , the consensus view is that the community must ensure that only material from animals fit for human consumption should be used in the production of meat-and-bone meal .
yes , difficult as it may be to believe , it took four years to agree a measure which i consider to be fundamental to public health protection .
parliament itself now has its opportunity to shape decisively the future direction of policy towards waste at community level .
madam president , the fact is that we would not have needed today 's debate at all if all the member states had immediately and fully implemented the requirements of the bse temporary committee of inquiry into bse and the bse follow-up committee of february and november 1997 .
i am also willing to concede that the commission , no doubt because of enormous pressure from the european parliament , has made great progress in recent years in gaining acceptance for the principle of precautionary consumer protection .
the public cannot understand why our legislative process is so slow in times of crisis .
that is also why i wish to say here that the commission must have powers at such times of crisis to take more rapid decisions in relation to infringements of community law or when there is an imminent risk of such infringement , and that it should be in a position to take action in the public interest or if public health is threatened .
that is why i specifically support the joint motion for a resolution calling on us to leave behind this atmosphere of suspicion and universally introduce rapid testing methods for bse not only for animals affected , not only for animals over 18 months , but for all animals involved in the food chain , if at all possible . ( applause ) this will give us a basis for more extensive and objective criteria for assessing the risk of bse or the absence of bse in member states and allow us to take new and more far-reaching decisions .
mr president-in-office , i specifically call on the council to make known its opinion on the tse regulation . ( applause ) we completed the first reading in may .
indeed , france has the right to ban animal meal for reasons of domestic policy .
but what may be right for france in this situation is not necessarily right for all member states .
i shall be quite open about this : what we will be calling for in the motion for a resolution tomorrow - a temporary general ban on the production and use of animal meal in feedingstuffs until all criteria relating to standards and safe origins have been met , together with the implementation of the commission proposal to eliminate affected animals for good - is hard for many member states , but we are going along with it because without society 's backing we will have problems in the long run .
however , it must also be possible to use animal parts approved for human consumption in animal feed as well in the future .
nor can i understand why france could not transpose the provisions on the pressure , temperature and heating time for the production of animal meal more quickly .
excuse me , mr president-in-office , if i make a rather heretical assumption , namely that you personally are certainly very interested in public health and in consumer health , but time and again i cannot help feeling that the council considers market organisation and economic aspects to be much more compelling .
the first is good legislation .
secondly , it is important to emphasise - and this is not some new idea - that anyone who consciously allows an animal that is sick , or that is suspected of being sick , to enter the food or feed chain is committing a criminal offence .
madam president , minister , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the commission and the european parliament have a duty to react in the face of the concern of consumers and european farmers over food safety .
the bse crisis is now a public health problem , if not a problem of society .
as a first step , our group is calling for the immediate imposition of systematic testing for bse throughout the european union and , at the same time , for the use of mbms in animal feed to be completely suspended on a temporary basis .
the practices of intensive farming have been the same everywhere .
so we must have an exact overview of the situation , country by country .
our group is calling for an immediate ban on mbms for all livestock as long as member states are unable to guarantee the implementation of laws preventing bse and the strict application of european directives .
commissioner , minister , we must have strict controls in order to guarantee that specified risk materials are separated out throughout the entire animal food chain .
the grass in our meadows , white clover and vetch - currently neglected by the cap - may provide satisfactory solutions for the safety of animal feed and human food .
it is possible to save livestock production by reforming an agricultural economic system which , even today , makes farmers and consumers hostages to multinationals that are more interested in profit than in food safety .
policies must change this situation so that those who are really responsible for this crisis can be penalised and so that precise decisions can make it possible for a first step to be taken towards ending this tragic crisis .
the work of this parliament ' s committee of enquiry contributed to the application of measures to protect consumer health : in particular by banning animal meal for cattle and through the compulsory labelling of beef .
it is therefore urgent that measures are taken to reassure consumers and to restore their confidence in food safety .
detection tests must also be extended to all cattle entering the human food chain .
the current crisis has led to a significant slump in sales and to a fall in prices , which are hurting livestock producers and all those involved in the beef sector .
selective aid , such as market support and a grass subsidy , are essential .
this has come to pass because the incompetence of governments has been aggravated by our own inability to respond to the twofold challenge before us : the health challenge and the economic challenge .
the reality is something else .
the scientific authorities clearly stated that the development of the disease in cattle was not under control and they pinpointed the alarming growth in the numbers of animals affected .
the labelling of beef that was agreed on , which is a minimum form of labelling and only came into force two and a half months ago , does not make it possible for the origin of animals to be adequately traced , and we were very slow to ban specified risk materials .
we need far-reaching measures to be adopted at a national and european level if we want to avoid economic bankruptcy and a major health scare .
we need to adopt the proposals put forward by the president-in-office of the european council , especially those banning animal meal in feed in all sectors of animal production .
the measures adopted by the french government in this regard are , as i said , inadequate .
firstly , as others have said before me , we must have systematic screening of all cattle slaughtered for consumption by european citizens .
this test can be developed on an industrial scale very quickly .
public opinion must be fully informed of the characteristics of the test i am talking about .
the french screening test for bse was developed at the cea ( a public-sector research institute ) .
the results of the european assessment , which were published in july 1999 , suggest that it is 10 to 300 times more sensitive than the three other tests assessed at the same time .
we sacrificed our soya , alfalfa and peas in the course of the com negotiations in marrakech .
this will only be possible if there is no longer any doubt in the public mind , in other words , if screening is , as i would insist , systematic .
and what about the labelling and traceability system , which will not be complete until 2003 , despite the risks for consumers and the absence of a total guarantee for livestock producers ?
we must acknowledge the special responsibility of the commission , as called for by the committee of enquiry of this parliament .
these are the real causes of the crisis , and it is only by tackling these causes that you will be able to permanently solve this appalling problem , which you helped to create .
madam president , on behalf of all livestock producers may i express my deep concern at the french government ban on meat-and-bone meal in animal feed .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , this debate has one thing in its favour ; that at least it is highlighting the differences of opinion that exist among us , especially between the council and the commission .
the health of european consumers must be a top priority in all decisions that are adopted .
the entire food chain is at the heart of this problem .
mr byrne , you are well aware that no mbms are completely safe .
but what we are certain of is that we must restore consumer confidence and support the farming sector .
i condemn the limitations and the worrying consequences of this policy .
european solidarity must also play a role , because our policy has exposed its inconsistencies : set-aside , animal meal for cattle , nitrates , pesticides .
the cap must be reorganised to encourage farmers .
the aim of this is to avoid not only microbiological but also chemical contamination of feedingstuffs in future .
regular and strict checks of technological standards and compliance with legislation on animal meal production should form part of a comprehensive safety concept .
madam president , we have certainly been through a lot with the bse crisis .
it has led to the resignation of a commission , a british government was voted out partly because of it and now there is an internal policy crisis in france - who knows where it will all end !
i tabled a question on the danger of bse in december 1995 , three months before the scandal broke .
madam president , one of the primary objectives of the european parliament , the commission and the council must continue to be guaranteeing food safety by enforcing effective laws and performing stringent controls which will restore consumer confidence .
we therefore need to develop an effective control system in all the member states of the european union .
madam president , i would like to go into the financial implications of the matter , partly in my capacity as rapporteur for the agricultural budget .
well then , council and commission , you have a fair amount of financial leeway on which to base your robust policy .
there is a general acknowledgement that bse , which began as a british disease and today is being presented as a french crisis , is really a european disease - a european problem - and it must be tackled on that basis .
many speakers have said that we need to extend the ban on meat-and-bone meal as a mammalian food stuff .
we must take precautions now , not just on behalf of those of us who are concerned , but on behalf of the complacent minority of member states as well .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i am happy to hear within this chamber that the cap must be changed at all costs .
it is outrageous that , after three bse crises in the space of a decade , no guilty party has been identified or brought to book .
madam president , i would like to make three points .
secondly , even before this crisis , the community suffered a serious deficit in vegetable proteins , since we accepted , at blair house , an incredible limitation on our oil-seed production to 30 % of our requirements , just to please the united states and its soya exporters .
now , the community cannot cultivate more than 5.5 million hectares of oil seeds , nor does it have the right to do so , even though our needs are in the order of 18 million hectares .
that is why food manufacturers have had to make extensive use of mbms in their products .
we denounced this here in parliament , when jimmy goldsmith was here .
we also ask that the disastrous blair house agreement , which binds our oil seed producers hand and foot , should be renegotiated within the framework of the com .
there are only declarations and opinions , but no decisions as regards directives or regulations .
we must reassure the public that the europe of rights does genuinely protect the rights enshrined in its treaties and in the fundamental charter of european rights .
i am sure , commissioner , that parliament will lend you all the support necessary for the new initiatives .
i feel that , until it is proved otherwise , a total ban on meat-and-bone meal has become necessary , just as the introduction of general testing and the harmonisation and effective implementation of community legislation in all the member states is necessary , and just as it is necessary not just to monitor the application of new labelling rules but to bring forward the introduction of these rules to the earliest possible juncture .
i will end by affirming this principle : the cost of these measures will certainly be very high , but our priority is health .
commissioner , i urge you to ensure that these tests are also carried out in other member states .
perhaps we should think about the victims for a change , and all the relatives of people who have died of creutzfeldt-jakob disease .
commissioner , i listened to what you said very carefully and was most surprised when , at one point in your speech , you said that you did not have a magic solution to this problem .
we want application , members of the council , we want action and we want it throughout the european union ; we do not want fragmented action by france or this or that country .
madam president , i am totally convinced that the union in its entirety lacks the political , moral and educational authority to talk about the quality and safety of food .
nor is it a coincidence that the president-in-office and the commissioner refrained from mentioning the main source of all of these problems in the food chain , which is , of course , the common agricultural policy itself .
parliament has voted half the budget to be spent on encouraging production .
we have already discussed the united kingdom and portugal in this chamber and now we are discussing france .
madam president , there is no let up in media interest in the bse issue .
the same goes for those dreadful pictures of people affected by the creutzfeldt-jakob disease , despite all the action taken in the member states , not to mention at eu level .
in the netherlands , the legislation governing the use of offal in animal feed is already relatively stringent as matters stand .
therefore , i am amazed , under these circumstances , that it is still permissible for corpses to be used or processed .
there is clearly a need for stringent european measures .
madam president , i speak today both as an mep and a beef farmer from the united kingdom .
the farming industry in britain has suffered greatly from the bse crisis , both financially and in terms of consumer confidence .
however , we have learnt a great deal over the years as to how to put our house in order .
recently , the phillips inquiry into bse has been published in the uk .
the french government should also read this report because they are in danger of making exactly the same mistakes as were made in the uk at the time of our bse crisis .
furthermore , the recent tests that have been carried out in france of fallen stock have shown several hidden cases of bse .
in britain we have also learnt that it is very difficult to stop meat-and-bone meal , that is produced and incorporated in the feedingstuffs for pigs and poultry , also - either by accident or by intention - landing up in feed for cattle and ruminants .
it is very difficult for a feed mill to guarantee that its production lines are completely cleared of meat-and-bone meal before they start manufacturing feedingstuffs for pigs and poultry .
i have long been of the opinion that a complete ban on the use of meat-and-bone meal in animal feeds should be in place throughout europe .
one of the main reasons for this action is that the french food agency takes the precautionary principle very seriously .
i would suggest that the european commission also use the precautionary principle in regard to beef from france .
the united kingdom has suffered with this terrible plague .
commissioner byrne was very strong today in his opening statement when he said to the house that he was prepared to look at this matter of meat-and-bone meal and take it on .
it is imperative upon government authorities , be they national or european .
i believe that we must now try , following your debates , to define the key ways , in terms of both method and means , in order to ensure compliance with this imperative .
the presidency believes that this method is based on scientific research and consultation .
you have dealt with all these problems in turn .
some countries have already gone down this road .
so there are doubts , there are uncertainties , but i believe that our joint text and your debates here in this house have enabled us to make progress .
i believe we should have a single , comprehensive set of laws , which can be applied to meet this demand and thereby avoid distortions of competition , thus making it possible for the single market to operate smoothly .
rest assured that , when it comes to continuing the work in the council and my exchanges with the commission , i will bear all this in mind , in the full knowledge that reaching agreement within the institutions is one of the best ways of dealing with a problem as complex and universal as that of food safety .
on 30 november , during the council meeting , the french presidency will launch an important debate with a view to providing the first responses to a situation of widespread suspicion , which calls into question the credibility of our institutions in the eyes of our citizens .
we are talking about public health , and hence of serious events , which must be treated as such , in a strict and , of course , transparent manner .
one thing i can say with conviction is that i am aware that all these people before me are experts on the question of food safety .
i am struck by one thing that is particularly important in this context , that is , that the spectrum of debate , particularly on the issue of whether there should be a total ban on meat-and-bone meal goes all the way from " do it " to " don 't do it " - in a chamber filled with experts on food safety .
what we must bear in mind when considering this issue is the fact that there is already in existence a ban on the provision of meat-and-bone meal to cattle .
in addition , there is legislation in place setting out how the meat-and-bone meal , how this feed , is to be processed - another safeguard that is introduced into the system to protect public health and food safety .
by saying that you must ban meat-and-bone meal from feed for pigs and poultry that cannot contract bse by this vector , what you are saying is not that you are protecting pigs and poultry , but that you are protecting cattle .
it raises the question that i am afraid to even ask .
i believe that there has been compliance with the legislation and if i believe that - and i do not think i am being naive - i do not believe that it is essential to have a widespread ban on meat-and-bone meal to be fed to pigs and poultry .
if there is a widespread adverse reaction against the authorities in france for doing the right thing , i hope it does not instil timidity in other member states when they do exactly the same .
the tests that i am referring to now are somewhat different .
it has been said that this will be very expensive , will involve a large number of carcasses and so on .
the three tests available - french , swiss and irish - are unable to detect bse in animals under a certain age .
it is important that we try and achieve a consensus as to the right way forward and find proportionate responses and not make accusations to others who , when they identify a proportionate response , say that you are not doing enough to protect consumer public health and consumer protection .
we must make sure we are fair to one another in identifying these measures which all of us believe to be necessary , because the aim of this exercise is the protection of public health and food safety and the enhancement of consumer confidence .
madam president , i would like to make a very brief personal statement , since our fellow member , mr graefe zu baringdorf , has attacked the members of my group for not taking part in the committee of enquiry into bse .
we did not take part in the second committee of enquiry quite simply because we were excluded by the operation of the d 'hondt law and by the rules of procedure , or lack of them , in this parliament .
in any event , mr martinez gave his formal warning in 1990 , a full 6 years before the first committee of enquiry .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
question no 17 by ( h-0848 / 00 ) : subject : minimum standards governing the expulsion of immigrants the council meeting of 18 december 1997 adopted a resolution laying down the priorities for cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs for the period from 1 january 1998 to the date of entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam , which clearly set out the objective of ' improving cooperation regarding the expulsion of ...
mr president , in my contribution to a secular miracle , i wish to say that , with regard to the harmonisation of asylum policy , the main measures that the union will be adopting are defined not only in the vienna action plan and in the conclusions of the tampere european council , but are also part of the scoreboard that the commission presented to the council and to the european parliament , and will develop in two basic stages .
in the later , more long-term stage , the objective will be to define a fully comprehensive common asylum system .
with regard specifically to the issue of its legal basis , article 63 ( 3 ) ( b ) of the treaty establishing the european community provides for the adoption of measures on illegal immigration and on illegal residence in the union ' s countries , including measures on the repatriation of illegal residents .
the commission considers that readmission agreements have an important role to play in clarifying and coordinating these policies , and the first community readmission agreements are currently being negotiated with russia , sri lanka , pakistan and morocco .
the commission hopes that , under the 2001 budget , a financial cooperation instrument will be adopted with the countries of origin and of transit , enhancing their powers in the field of readmission and of voluntary return .
with regard to future policy , it is the commission ' s view that in view of the need for an overall and coherent strategy in the field of repatriation , we must aim above all to prioritise voluntary repatriation .
bearing this voluntary repatriation in mind , i would remind the house that the european fund for refugees provides for specific financial measures to support the development of member states ' policies on repatriation , and that , with regard to the way this repatriation is carried out , i share the concerns expressed by mrs cerdeira morterero about the need for us to adopt common minimum standards establishing dignified and humane procedures and conditions for repatriation .
i am convinced that this will be a worthy topic for the commission ' s work programme for 2001 .
on 12 december in palermo , the united nations is going to sign the world convention on organised crime with a protocol on the traffic in human beings .
there is a direct relationship between organised crime and immigration .
the solutions that the commission will be proposing are fully in line with the content of the united nations convention , which i hope will be signed in palermo in the week of 12 to 15 december .
allow me to remind you that , following beijing and again in new york this year , the whole world reiterated that all these issues were human rights issues and should be treated as such , as violations of human rights .
the commission approved a pan-european policy to combat trafficking in human beings back in 1996 , with particular emphasis on the issue of women , who are the worst hit by this scourge .
questions nos 19 , 20 and 21 will be replied to in writing .
question no 22 by ( h-0809 / 00 ) : subject : monetary policy and the role of the commission during a debate in the european parliament ' s committee on constitutional affairs , former commission president jacques delors said that the commission ought to be responsible for public announcements concerning european policy on the state of the single currency and fluctuations in the exchange rate .
a problem of greater consequence is how to make a single monetary policy compatible with economic policies that are national in accordance with the treaty .
we mean to carry out this coordination basically through the instrument of major economic policy guidelines , which are applicable in each member state that approves them and which include not only the major lines of economic policy but also specific recommendations for each member state .
the aim during this period has been to reduce government deficit in order to achieve a more flexible monetary policy , lower interest rates and greater growth .
we hope next year we will achieve a zero deficit situation .
in these circumstances , as the body basically responsible for economic policy coordination , we in eurogroup are planning to take our fiscal obligations further and , above all , improve the quality and sustainability of public finances , which will certainly mean an improvement in the stability and growth pact and the tackling of more exacting topics with greater content .
but i do not think you know how to explain this or you dare not do so , and anyway , the fundamental problem with the fall in the euro in fact lies in the lack of confidence in a common policy , because the member states resist accepting the strategic and political reality of the euro ' s actual existence .
in overall terms , the euro effect must be seen as a total , absolute success : we have managed to improve growth , improve the conditions for stability in our economy , we have managed to keep inflation down to a relatively low level despite the risks we are facing , and we are achieving the basic objective , which is to keep inflation under control .
in 1999 , we set in motion a number of specific programmes in cooperation with parliament to publicise the euro as thoroughly as possible .
i always say that the euro will not be introduced on 1 january 2002 : the euro is already in our pockets ; we have it in coins of different guises , but we already have it in our pockets .
whereas in 2000 we have devoted more attention to small- and medium-sized enterprises , 2001 must be the year of the people .
you too are receiving this information on the current situation of each plan for changing over to the physical euro in each of the member states , so that everybody can choose the best practices in one country or another and we can all make as much progress as we can together and achieve the best possible results before the end of next year .
question no 23 will be replied to in writing .
in relation to directive 96 / 62 on ambient air quality assessment and management , the commission has brought a case against greece for non-transposition before the court of justice .
i am hopeful that this situation will improve with the implementation of other community initiatives such as the recent agreement on the commission 's proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings .
in addition , daughter directive 99 / 30 must be transposed in member states by 19 july 2001 .
this situation is expected to improve with the implementation of community legislation , for example , in the transport sector .
however , the greek authorities will have to take supplementary measures at local level to ensure that the new air quality standards are respected .
questions nos 25 to 28 will be replied to in writing .
in other words , investments may constitute aid when they finance production projects which are not financed by the networks in the absence of a legal obligation .
commissioner , could you clarify whether , in this case , there is not a contradiction with the fact that ' television without borders ' also helps to produce the content of the works .
in the same decision , the commission undertook to review the aid schemes in all the member states on the basis of the specific compatibility criteria approved until 2004 , the date on which the validity of the authorisation for the french support scheme will expire .
this bilateral approach simply aims to examine the conformity of the different schemes with the prototype which was established at the time the decision was taken to approve the french scheme , based on the four specific compatibility criteria .
questions nos 30 to 59 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , commissioner , the european union charter of fundamental rights says in its preamble : ' it places the individual at the heart of its activities , by establishing the citizenship of the union and by creating an area of freedom , security and justice ' , and in its first article it adds : ' human dignity is inviolable .
i bring in this quotation from the charter of fundamental rights because some situations described in this magnificent report - i congratulate the rapporteur on it - are probably incompatible with this declaration that has just been willingly adopted by this parliament .
compared with these statements , reality is stubborn .
eurostat data tells us that 18 % of the population of the european union live on less than 60 % of average national income or , in other words , 65 million europeans are living in poverty .
naturally the national poverty rates are varied and different , as are the types of poverty : urban , in industrial slums , in isolated rural areas , etc . , or the poverty linked to sex or age discrimination - i am referring , of course , to poverty among women and child poverty .
today ' s worlds , the society of globalisation and the world economy , the society of information and technological development , may also have a not very positive influence and create , or help to create , new forms of poverty , on account of the intrinsic difficulties in this kind of society in opening up access to employment - to me this is the fundamental route to social integration and inclusion - and because of the need to improve employment and obtain higher-quality jobs .
to achieve a europe that encourages integration , in the words of the lisbon european council , requires joint effort and joint action .
mr president , i would first of all like to thank our rapporteur and welcome the initiative she has taken to engage in dialogue with the council and the commission immediately following this first reading in order to work towards ensuring that better consideration is given to the amendments desired by parliament .
this is not self-evident as this new growth is very unfair and , as we have seen in the united states for some ten years now , may be accompanied by persistent insecure employment , exclusion , poverty and urban ghettoisation .
growth will take place under conditions inherited from the crisis : a lot of jobs are being created , but there have never been so many insecure jobs , temporary jobs and imposed part-time work .
this community programme does not aim to take it entirely upon itself to combat exclusion in the european union , but it must make it possible for europe to take action in a more determined , effective and coordinated way .
to achieve this , it must be closely linked to the commitment that the heads of state and government made in lisbon in march 2000 to give a decisive boost to eliminating poverty by setting proper objectives which must be approved by the council by the end of the year , in other words , before the nice european council , which will take place in a few weeks ' time .
thirdly , by helping to assess the impact of government policies that are being pursued in the different member states in order to draw lessons , establish good practices and reflect on good strategies and , in particular , their consistency with other economic and social policies .
it is the answers to such questions that we shall find in this programme , designed to promote cooperation on the part of the member states in combating social exclusion .
the idea is that all interested and concerned parties should be involved in a type of work in which the individual countries describe the extent of social exclusion and their efforts to combat it .
the commission experimented with a definition in its consultation document for the lisbon summit , proceeding on the basis that the excluded are those who have an income of less than 60 % of average earnings in the country concerned .
the governments of the member states did not accept this definition , which is also rather simplistic and unduly bland .
mr president , i wish to congratulate the rapporteur for her great commitment in dealing with this report on a programme of community action for combating social exclusion in which , as many have said , poverty can be an important factor .
we are told that finding paid work is the best way of preventing social exclusion but i would agree with those who have said that we would have to take account of the fact that gainful employment alone is no guarantee of social participation .
if we are going to avoid social exclusion we have to ensure that our macroeconomic policies do not act in a way which increases social exclusion .
it would be totally counterproductive to have policies which undermine local economic development , make employment less secure but more demanding and then have to mop up the casualties through programmes which try to combat poverty and social exclusion .
in spite of the fact that there is money around and in spite of the fact that europe has never been richer , it appears to be more and more difficult to protect the weak and give the marginalised a proper chance .
all these groups are threatened by social exclusion if very extensive measures of support are not provided .
however , the figures on poverty in europe , upon which our report is based and which have been mentioned today - the 18 % poverty line - are evidence of a situation which is anything but exciting .
to guarantee rights , to establish coordination , to create committees to study the situation and draw up action plans to combat social exclusion , to promote dialogue between the parties concerned and to create ngo networks at european level , and for this we will appropriate eur 70 million or maybe eur 100 million .
if we want to find the resources to give to the pensioners with the most paltry pensions , we must have the courage to admit that we need to stop people retiring at 50 years old and , in all probability , create a completely new social security system .
these 65 million people are often overlooked .
if we are to achieve the economic and social cohesion to which we aspire we need not just a high level of employment , but also a high level of social protection .
the benefits of synergy are felt when member states ' measures are linked with community policies , actions and instruments and with the european structural funds .
i regard it as essential to set up a reflection group at european level with representatives of the ngos , the social partners , the council and the european parliament taking part in an annual round table .
the concept of open coordination in employment policy since luxembourg needs to incorporate exclusion and to be reflected in the member states ' national action plans .
in 1992 , the council called on the member states to combat social exclusion .
we should reinforce this active role as from 2001 , in order to give those afflicted by poverty and social exclusion access to economic , social and cultural activities .
europe has managed to avoid the economic crises that have hit many parts of the world over recent years .
well over half of the 14 million unemployed , according to eurostat 's latest figures , have been out of work for over a year .
furthermore , according to the eu 's statistical service , 18 % of european citizens live below the poverty line , while one-third of those living in poverty are working .
in my own country something like 75 % of those who are working and living below the poverty line are women .
the situation seems to be getting worse .
it is imperative , however , that member states engage fully with this programme and consult widely with civil society to establish ambitious targets for eliminating poverty and exclusion .
every year , my friends mr thomas mann and mr mario mantovani and i go to the poor sisters ' institute in brussels to serve meals to the town 's poor tramps , and our hearts bleed and we feel guilty that we are only able to do this once a year : we would like to be able to do it every day but , in all honesty , it would be impossible .
social security policy is also an important area .
mr president , eurostat states quite clearly that around 18 % of the european union ' s population live on less than 60 % of the average national income .
this represents around 75 million european citizens .
to this we must add the fact that more than 10 million people depend on assistance from social welfare systems , in a situation which is growing worse in most member states .
this report is extremely important because it aims to improve the circumstances of the most underprivileged , thereby representing one more step towards strengthening social cohesion .
this is an ambitious programme of community action which , in line with the commission ' s proposal , will be given budgetary appropriations of eur 70 million and should remain in force for a period of five years .
the beneficiaries of this programme should be the victims of poverty and social exclusion , and we must prevent this from becoming in practice merely a means of financing bodies which investigate the problems of poverty and social exclusion .
mr president , i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent contribution to identifying the causes and the scale of poverty , which is an appropriate term for a social reality whose cruelty should not be watered down into a concept as wide-ranging and abstract as social exclusion .
i support the commission ' s initiative to create a programme which meets the objectives of the treaty ' s new social agenda , and which puts the lisbon decisions into practice .
i urge the council to establish quantifiable goals , and specific , cross-sector action programmes to combat exclusion , based on indicators which provide considerable information so that closer cooperation can be translated into tangible and effective action , more in the social results that it achieves than in satisfying electoral needs .
i therefore support the rapporteur in stressing that the programme , or rather the programme 's role , will facilitate greater social cohesion where the poor and the marginalised are concerned .
as is stated in the amendments which i tabled in committee and which were subsequently adopted , i am convinced that an effective , practical fight against poverty must take place according to a timetable of events and targets .
in fact , a programme with in-built deadlines and checks is easier to assess in terms of quantity and quality .
it must be taken into consideration that over 65 million people in the european union - 7.5 million of which live in my country , italy - live on a low income , and a low income in italy , commissioner , means a family living on an income of eur 750 .
these figures suggest that the budget made available for the programme will be totally insufficient .
it is a very important and constructive contribution and it supports the commission proposal for a joint decision of the council and parliament which will establish a community action programme to combat social exclusion .
after the treaty of amsterdam and some months after the lisbon council , we all know that a new context has been created for community action in the area of social policies and social exclusion and social protection .
there is a shift in the political debate at the european level and we can see that there is a strong will to combine social cohesion and competition .
the proposed action programme has a legal basis , article 137 of the treaty of amsterdam , and we had a new mandate after the lisbon council .
this programme has been designed to support implementation of the open coordination method which means that it will be possible to improve knowledge , to develop exchange of information and best practice and to evaluate experience to better combat social exclusion .
there has been a very interesting debate on the role of employment in combating social exclusion and the role of the social reforms and of the structural reforms .
i would like to inform members of parliament that , on 4 december , there will be a discussion in the committee on employment and social affairs on the new social agenda and on what we have achieved during the last year .
as far as the proposed programme is concerned and the report of parliament , i am particularly happy at your strong overall support for this proposal .
i also agree to highlight the importance of ngos as well as of regional and local actors as you suggest , and of better reflecting their experience on the ground .
there is a reference to the use of the word " poverty . "
of course , social exclusion is the wider notion and social exclusion has three main dimensions : poverty , discrimination and lack of opportunities .
this is a legalistic problem because , according to the treaty 's wording , the reference concerns only social exclusion and not poverty .
however , i am not able to accept an increase in the budget from eur 70 million to eur 100 million .
the budget that we propose is adapted to the aim of the programme and this aim is to encourage cross-national cooperation and mutual learning and not to fund actions on the ground .
through the social fund and through the equal initiative member states ' ngos can be funded for particular projects for particular actions on the ground .
we cannot accept this proposal because it is against the comitology rules .
the social protection committee plays a key role in the development of policies of the european council .
close cooperation between the contact group and the social protection committee will ensure the exchange of views between the council and parliament .
on the other hand there could be a link between the contact group and the commission 's officials on a regular basis .
i believe that these proposals constitute a pragmatic response to your request .
for procedural and institutional reasons it is not possible to incorporate them in the text of the decision .
to sum up , out of the 75 amendments you have proposed , i can accept either as drafted or in spirit 48 of them , namely : amendments nos 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 13 , 15 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 27 , 29 , 31 , 37 , 42 , 46 , 48 , 51 , 58 , 59 , 60 , 61 , 65 , 66 , 68 and 74 .
i can also accept parts of amendments nos 14 , 36 , 40 , 45 , 53 , 63 , 64 , 70 , 71 , 72 and 73 .
it is true that there is a complexity in the whole procedure but all three institutions wish to reach an agreement as soon as possible .
thank you very much , commissioner diamantopoulou .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
the proposal for a directive is a logical consequence of the european union 's strategy to double the share of renewables in energy consumption by 2010 .
this means that promoting renewables compensates for the external costs of other energy sources , takes into account the positive environmental effects of this type of energy production and , at the same , time makes up for existing distortions in competition .
we need binding targets right now .
the european union and all the member states entered into commitments at kyoto because they recognised the dramatic nature of climate change .
in the hague , the western industrialised nations are currently again being pilloried because they are only implementing those commitments half-heartedly .
if we define a clear , binding framework for the member states , then there should be a longer evaluation period for the various support systems required to satisfy these requirements .
we want to convince people in europe to switch to energy sources which nature renews afresh every day , which do not entail any environmental disruption or climate change , and which make a positive contribution to reducing co2 emissions .
even if only hydroelectric installations with a capacity below 10 mw are to be covered by the support schemes , all hydro will , of course , be regarded as a renewable energy source and will count towards achieving the target .
another vital point that the committee agreed on was the problem of connection to the grid and access to the grid for renewables .
the commission 's general text on the issue of cost sharing in the report makes matters substantially clearer .
this is a summit which intends to slow down climate change and at which the kyoto protocol will undergo its ordeal by fire .
in addition , the latest conclusions reached by scientists on the intergovernmental panel on climate change alert us to its alarming effects .
we trust that the directive will help these as yet incipient forms of energy to develop and become competitive and that the commission will soon present us with a similar proposal on biofuels .
this document is unacceptable because of the way it proposes to treat operating aid for renewable energy sources and cogeneration , since it does not recognise the different degree of competitiveness between these renewable energy sources and conventional ones .
in addition , it is inconceivable that the directorate-general for competition should move to regulate this kind of aid without taking into account the results of negotiations pertaining to the directive we have before us , and at the very least it can be seen as a snub to parliament .
the directive on renewable sources of energy represents a belief in the future and an investment in the environment .
i am going to repeat three of our demands .
after all , on the one hand , this directive is an important element in the series of measures taken to enable us to honour the commitment the eu entered into in kyoto regarding the reduction of greenhouse gases and , on the other , it is a praiseworthy attempt to reduce the european union ' s dependence on the oil-producing countries .
needless to say , the controversial issue in this report is that to do with the stipulation of binding target figures .
in fact the crux of the report is whether it makes any sense or not to have these binding target figures .
mr president , commissioner , mrs rothe , what we need is a clear definition of what is renewable .
i do not agree with mr beysen ; a liberal should be in favour of the fewest possible distortions in the market .
if we do not have clear objectives , there will be distortion between those countries which do something to promote renewable energies and those countries which do not do enough .
i do not want electricians to cause interference between the two systems and to sow confusion and doubt amongst investors in europe by short-circuiting and manipulating the system of guaranteed prices .
not only must guaranteed prices be tolerated , they must be protected by the directive .
that is what politics is all about : making competition possible between the two instruments by protecting guaranteed prices and harmonising certificate-related issues .
renewable energies is a subject which unites the citizens of europe at a time when europe is finding it difficult to get its citizens to support greater integration .
mr president , the dependence of the member states of the union on imported energy is massive and is growing all the time .
those countries that burn oil or gas themselves should not prohibit us from burning peat .
for example , waste incineration must not be called sustainable as a matter of course .
over the last 18 months we have seen the price of crude oil rise from usd 9.75 to usd 33 a barrel .
mr president , commissioner , we warmly support the draft directive for electricity from renewable energy sources .
it seems a pity to exclude any category which can contribute to the overall achievement of energy from waste - whether it is for small-scale projects or part of the overall calculation .
the key issue , however , that divides us is the question of the binding nature of the targets .
we have grave reservations about this being in conflict with the principle of subsidiarity .
it could scupper this directive , but we also think it is a matter of practicality .
the third point in issue here is the length of support programmes .
for us an annual growth limit in peat is quite enough .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the use of sustainable renewable energy sources must be one of the principle objectives of a modern energy policy in europe as well , but there must also be obligations and certainties , dictated by common sense , of course .
in this sense , hydroelectric power is important , and it has been both a burden and a blessing for the mountain peoples , for they have had to pay a very high price for their land and have watched local industrialisation processes spring up , associated precisely with the presence of this energy source .
one farmer in my locality with a wind project was quoted over eur 2 million for a connection and this is clearly a problem that i would like addressed .
mr president , increasing the proportion of electricity from renewable energy sources is a good move .
the share of renewable energy sources proposed , 22 % by 2010 , compared with 13.9 % now , is particularly ambitious and i am just wondering whether a directive which focuses on the market and makes no provision for parallel measures such as support for research will suffice in order to achieve it .
the directive talks about support systems , basically a premium paid to companies which operate in this sector , and relies on so-called market mechanisms for the final solution .
since , at the same time , the eu has to adhere to the climatic targets set at kyoto , it is especially important that we invest more and more in research into renewables .
the debate on renewable energy sources must not become a form of populism against nuclear energy .
the total deregulation of the electricity markets is also one precondition of the increased use of renewables .
this fight represents a pointless or impossible struggle against all that we take for granted .
sustainable energy can contribute to fair distribution between countries .
the climate conference has just started in the hague .
our objectives in the field of sustainable energy are ambitious , yet still modest in the context of the climate problems we face .
sustainable energy is often associated with small-scale solutions : solar panels on everyone ' s roof and a windmill in every village .
mr president , on a final note , i would very much like to thank the rapporteur for her worthwhile contribution to this topic .
mr president , i too would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work in connection with this report .
a really excellent proposal has been produced , thanks to cooperation .
increasing the use of renewable energy can reduce dependence on oil and also create jobs in sparsely populated regions .
i only wish that this directive were part of a coherent long-term energy strategy of the union .
instead , proposals related to energy are submitted one at a time and without much consistency .
all new technologies are expensive in the beginning .
but experience tells us from almost every possible field that every time demand increases by 100 % costs come down by an estimated 10 to 15 % .
hence , i am optimistic about the future potential for renewables provided the right incentives are put in place .
the good proposal that you have put forward , commissioner de palacio - and i should like to pay tribute to your realism as regards energy - and the excellent report by mrs rothe are a step in the right direction by promoting renewable energies .
free competition does not solve all the problems and , more especially , it does not settle the fight against the greenhouse effect or against waste .
i would like to conclude simply by mentioning three problems which have come up time and time again throughout this debate .
the second problem is that of household waste : strictly speaking it is not a renewable energy , but one must guard against sending a negative signal as regards the incineration of household waste .
finally , as far as the degree of constraint is concerned , i will simply say - because i do not have any more time - that an objective in itself is never constraining : it is an objective and everything must be done to achieve it .
this is what we must do at a european level .
i have just come from an opec meeting , and the price of usd 30 for crude oil provides us with an opportunity to make totally new investments in this sector .
particularly in the field of research and development , it is important that , in future , we should pay more attention to renewable energy , and i especially have in mind gas from landfill sites and sewage treatment plants , for which there is a role in this regard .
i am convinced that in all energy-related matters we should be aware that either we improve our sources or we shall leave the planet earth uninhabitable within a few generations .
in my opinion , it is fundamental that we should ensure support for these kinds of energy sources for a considerable period of time , thus allowing our industries to make decisive , long-term investments in this alternative energy .
i believe a stable framework for energy from renewable sources needs to be guaranteed within ten years at least ; this is a proposal we should all support .
with regard to our targets in this field , we have to listen to the people and go beyond the commission ' s proposal of 21 % , which i think is very positive overall , and increase the renewable portion of the total electricity produced .
this commission proposal is being presented in circumstances which , while in many ways may be negative for many aspects of our economies and our lives , i believe are positive in terms of this particular initiative .
a dramatic increase in the price of oil without doubt starkly highlights the problems relating to our dependence on energy from fossil fuels .
firstly , we must increase the production of green electricity and then we must deal with issues relating to the market .
this proposal offers a certain degree of legislative certainty and , at the same time , it respects the principle of subsidiarity , by providing the member states with the degree of autonomy necessary to take account of their specific circumstances until such time as we can see , according to the way events progress , which is the best way to promote the installation of electricity sources .
as you know , the commission intends shortly to adopt a green paper on the availability of energy supply and compliance with the kyoto objectives and the commitments made there by the european union .
we believe that these are two fundamental aspects , of different types but equally important .
the european union , which flies the flag in the fight against climate change and in the reduction of emissions , must not be the first to fail to comply with its own objectives and its own commitments .
as a second issue , the availability of supply is a key element in guaranteeing economic development , the well-being of our countries and of the union as a whole .
i would like to stress this - as some speakers have done - but i would also like to say that it is not a question of opposing any particular energy source or waging a war against it in favour of another .
furthermore , renewable energy sources are a factor in the availability of supply , and we therefore have an enormous potential for production within the european union .
with regard to the amendments that have been tabled , please let me tell you that their number is simply extraordinary and this demonstrates parliament ' s great interest in this issue .
they also show that there are differing opinions on the best way to promote this type of electricity .
nevertheless , we all agree that in europe we must speed up and intensify the production of this type of energy and that this requires effort .
in our fight to create a strong and dynamic green electricity market , the first thing we have to do is listen , so that we can learn from each other .
i have noticed that there are two trends of opinion , with opposing approaches , on this issue .
the first stresses the rapid introduction of market forces , while the second underlines the need to establish transitional periods and active public aid .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in its proposal the commission is trying to retain the best elements of these two approaches with the aim of producing a balanced text , but i must also make it very clear that a priority objective at the moment is the promotion and development of renewable energy .
therefore , issues concerning the market are of secondary importance .
they are an objective which must not be forgotten but they are not the priority objective of this initiative , which is fundamentally the development and increased use of renewable energy sources .
amendments nos 1 , 2 , 8 , 20 and 21 highlight the need for a policy favourable to green electricity and its many advantages and can be immediately accepted by the commission .
as for amendment no 5 , i am happy to tell you that , given the importance of this issue , the commission is studying the possibility of presenting a new directive on biofuels generated from renewable energy sources , specifically from biomass , from agricultural products , which will simplify some of the problems which have been raised .
when we start to talk about the targets for electricity generated from renewable energy sources , we first must agree on what we understand by renewable energy sources .
this is of fundamental importance in order to lay the foundations for the future market and some of you have already mentioned this matter .
neither can the commission accept peat , since it is clearly a fossil fuel , although it is generated more quickly , but it is fossil nonetheless .
the reference to waste , with no other classification , as a source of renewable energy - as i said a moment ago - is inadequate and contrary to the policy of management of solid waste .
the commission rejects this part of amendment no 27 , amendments nos 11 , 54 , 55 , 61 and amendment no 57 , which are all related to it .
the commission also believes that all electricity generated from renewable energy sources and used in hybrid power plants must be considered as green electricity and not only that to be used as reserve power .
the annex to the commission ' s proposal includes the indicative targets with regard to the national level of consumption of green electricity necessary for achieving the total quota of 22.1 % for the whole of the european union by 2010 , in accordance with the objectives laid down in the white paper of 1997 .
in this context , i must point out two issues .
ladies and gentlemen , i would also like to suggest mandatory targets but we have to be realistic and , although i regret this , i cannot , at this time , accept this suggestion that you have made , because it would be automatically rejected by the member states .
this is the first time in a union directive that national targets of this type are being considered .
these are not obligations which must be fulfilled but national targets .
when the report which must be produced on compliance and the development of renewable energy in the various countries indicates that a certain country is clearly failing to comply with those targets , proposals will be made to parliament and the council to correct the situation .
those would evidently be mandatory targets for that state , so that it complies with them , so that in this way it complies with these targets , which are targets and not obligations .
the task we are taking on by means of this directive must be based on transparent measures , which increase confidence , but this process would probably never take off if we impose binding targets in its text .
with regard to the calculation , our calculation of 22.1 % , instead of the 23.5 % established in 1997 , is a response to issues of credibility .
the figures we are presenting here are not arbitrary or mere whims but are instead a response to the real situation as we find it .
for this reason , we cannot support the amendments which propose legally binding targets - the creation of the committee or the target of 23.5 % - and therefore we must reject for the time being amendments nos 6 , 9 , 12 , 25 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 , 35 , 50 , 51 , 52 , 67 and 68 .
in relation to the support systems , this is the second group of amendments where the commission considered it premature to propose a harmonised support system , but stated that , if necessary , it will present a proposal of this type in accordance with certain principles .
we therefore support amendments nos 36 and 56 and also certain aspects of amendments nos 4 , 15 and 62 , relating to the idea of internalising external costs and compensating for external costs which are not covered in favour of renewable energy sources .
neither can we accept the part of amendment no 37 which demands that the future harmonised support system satisfies the need for the internalisation of external costs , since this could only be done through fiscal harmonisation which exceeds the scope of the future proposal in this respect .
on the other hand , we could accept amendments nos 10 and 59 , which state that investment aid to large hydroelectric plants would only be possible in the event that they contribute to improving the environment .
large hydroelectric plants , in principle , are broadly viable in themselves and have very high environmental costs .
amendment no 53 would mean excluding all competitive forms of renewable energy from the subsidies and other advantages and , therefore , the commission cannot accept its wording .
with regard to the principles on which the future harmonised support system must be based , the commission can accept the parts of amendments nos 37 and 38 which stipulate that such a system must take account of the environmental objectives of the treaty , the experience acquired with the support systems , which have proven to be effective and positive , as well as geographical conditions .
however , the commission cannot accept parts of amendments nos 37 and 38 and amendment no 39 , insofar as they prejudge the type of system which must be applied or they require that there should be no distortion to the biomass market .
the commission can accept the need for the current support systems in the transitional systems already considered in article 4 ( d ) of its proposal .
however , while doing so , the commission is very conscious that the terms used should not prejudice its right of initiative and must not be incompatible with the single market for electricity .
the commission can accept part of the combined amendments nos 17 and 18 , insofar as this transitional period of ten years relates to maintaining the confidence of investors and not to the continuation of the support systems as such .
as some of you have just pointed out , wind energy is very close to becoming competitive , but we have to continue providing genuine support for the development of renewable energy .
nevertheless , for reasons that i mentioned earlier , the commission rejects amendments nos 13 , 32 , 40 , 41 , 63 and 64 .
with regard to the amendments concerning market forces and competition , the commission can accept the relevant parts of amendments nos 17 and 18 and amendment no 22 , which stress the need to create a market in ecological electricity , but rejects amendment no 19 , which demands harmonisation of national support systems .
with regard to technical measures and the guarantee of origin of ecological electricity , we cannot , unfortunately , support amendments seeking to extend this guarantee to all types of electricity or to electricity from third countries , since that exceeds the scope of the proposal .
we reject amendments nos 14 , 42 , 43 and 44 and amendment no 58 , which seeks to achieve cross-border trading in electricity certificates .
in relation to amendments nos 48 , 49 and 66 , the commission can accept that , when the time comes , the national targets for green electricity for 2010-2020 should be indicated , but cannot accept those parts of the amendments which could prejudice the application of the rules of competition law in the field of state aid .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
wars and other conflicts have always been a male province , but the majority of victims - 90 per cent - are civilian .
in the commission for the reconstruction of tajikistan , which has 25 000 widows , only one of 26 participants was a woman .
in the initial peace negotiations to bring an end to the conflict in burundi , two out of 126 delegates were women .
when the stability pact for the reconstruction of south-eastern europe was created , no women at all were appointed in spite of their unique experience in peacemaking at grass roots level .
if we exclude 50 per cent of the population , we shall not obtain a sustainable peace .
women must participate fully in all peace negotiations , in all reconstruction work and in peace-keeping operations .
while formal peace processes are almost exclusively a male domain , international experience and declarations show the importance of women ' s participation in resolving conflicts and building peace .
in the few cases in which civil society and women have taken part in formal peace negotiations , it has , however , been successful , for example in south africa , guatemala and cambodia .
the goal should be to have at least 40 per cent women involved in all peace and reconstruction work .
despite the fact that only a limited number of women have been involved , studies show that women ' s participation in the un ' s peacekeeping forces improves relations with the local population , as well as general morale .
peace can only be achieved if women participate fully in the peace process .
women are especially affected by wars and conflict situations because of their responsibility for their family , their children and the elderly , but also because they often assume sole responsibility in the absence of their husbands and fathers and accordingly often have to ensure , single-handed , that their family survives .
the theorin report goes into a lot of detail and repetition , which we in the group of the european people 's party ( christian democrats ) and the european democrats consider do not belong in an official document .
mr president , up until fairly recently , the role of women in matters of war and peace was very much a fringe issue in international organisations .
this was also clearly the case with successive un world conferences held since 1975 , particularly with regard to the conflict in the middle east .
finally , mr president , i wish to express my disappointment at what i see as shifty manoeuvres that have lead to the watering down of paragraph 12 concerning the rights and freedom of choice of women who fall victim to rape and states of war .
mr president , in common with other speakers , i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her very comprehensive and commendable report containing a series of proposals which decision makers around the world ought to take on board and from which they ought to draw inspiration .
this point is very important because this tribunal also wants to act as a pioneer and to be the first to raise the question of the crimes against humanity committed against women .
i hope , mrs theorin , that we will take an initiative on behalf of the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities to support this action with a view to recognising and making reparations for this crime against humanity perpetrated against women .
mr president , commissioner , the participation of women in the peaceful resolution of conflicts is necessary , unfortunately , because of the effect these conflicts have on women ' s lives and because women do not traditionally play an active role in such conflicts .
the serious problems which this causes women are increased , because they are then repudiated in their home communities .
furthermore , there must be financial resources to help women who are victims of this situation .
women ' s participation in the diplomatic resolution of conflicts and in reconstruction initiatives would be of enormous help in achieving these objectives .
this report , which we consider to be important given the nature of the issue it deals with , is , nevertheless , too repetitive and contains certain elements which we do not like , but we recognise that it deals with a real problem which must be resolved and our group will therefore support it .
mr president , commissioner , currently , 90 % of the victims of war and four-fifths of the world ' s refugees are non-combatants , mainly women and children .
and yet , when we look at the participation of women in decision making about the prevention and resolution of armed conflicts or in peace initiatives , we see that they have a very limited presence .
there is the example of the international network of the ' women in black ' who are against war and violence and have been demonstrating for 12 years in israel against the military occupation of palestine , in dialogue and solidarity with palestinian women .
i would like to congratulate mrs theorin for broaching a subject at european level that we have rarely discussed .
secondly , on 31 october a resolution was approved in the security council , namely resolution 1325 , which ' calls for broad participation of women in peacebuilding and post-conflict reconstruction . "
i think it would be worthwhile , under the circumstances , for the european union to take a look at what points were raised too , because they have been adopted within the united nations , and so they must also be taken on board at european level .
these pacific qualities in women could provide an alternative solution , the basis for the foundations of a new civilisation , a civilisation of peace , in which dialogue is protected at all levels and from which war and violence are excluded as a means of resolving differences .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i would like to concur with the many interventions and congratulations delivered by other speakers , and i would particularly like to echo the sentiments expressed by mrs theorin in connection with the role of women in the peaceful resolution of conflicts .
that is why i support the full report in its almost original form and we feel that the majority of the amendments tabled by our colleagues have the effect of watering it down and are even downright hypocritical in some cases .
the greens do not support the compromise text drawn up by our fellow delegates in connection with amendment no 19 .
the report not only refers to the social exclusion of women as a problem in itself , it also rightly emphasises that protection against criminality and personal safety are no longer something that can be guaranteed solely within national borders .
we all condemn unreservedly the brutal abduction of children , some not even in their teens , particularly in certain african countries such as sierra leone or uganda , and their corruption into murderous habits and involvement in barbaric practices such as mutilation and maiming .
these are not soldiers and they should be distinguished from young people in our own armed forces .
the trouble is that when we talk of child soldiers , then some interest groups use this as an opportunity to criticise distinguished institutions such as the british army and this has happened recently .
mr president , i congratulate mrs theorin on this magnificent report and i believe that all of us , as women , should be happy , since it is we who are going to benefit directly or indirectly from her courageous and innovative proposals and contributions .
mr president , this report opens up new territory in european policy , that of women ' s ' contribution to peace .
it is shameful that nobody is here representing the council .
mr president , please tell me who is representing the council at the moment , or the high representative for the cfsp .
the absence of the council in this debate is a grave error .
i do not , in fact , consider it to be a serious piece of work . . ( el ) mr president , i think this really is an innovative report , an innovative resolution , one which introduces a new dimension into foreign policy in a very specific manner .
no one can claim that women are more democratic or more supportive of peace .
women are not people with fewer or more capabilities , they just have a different take on society .
allow me to refer to some of the basic recommendations in the resolution which require action by the commission .
these regulations provide for a legal basis for our political activities vis-a-vis third countries as regards action taken by the union to prevent conflict , deal with its consequences , implement confidence-building measures , promote humanitarian law and support international , regional and local organisations involved in conflict prevention .
the third element is the participation of the european community in rehabilitating victims of torture .
the fourth example is the important role of women in the peace process which the european community is supporting in the balkans and in the mediterranean basin .
i must say that , as a rule , echo programmes do take account of the gender dimension and an effort is always made to include the gender dimension in many of the programmes funded by echo for the benefit of other organisations , such as the high commissioner of the united nations , the international federation of red cross societies and others .
article 4.2 states that , as far as terms of acceptance and access to asylum procedures are concerned , special measures may be taken for people who are especially vulnerable , such as women .
mr president , what is clear is that we are witnessing an initial stage in which the gender dimension , the participation of women , is starting to become , if not the rule , then at least an element in various programmes .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
if i may make a personal comment , i believe that we would make rather more progress , regardless of what you may think about the contribution of the only man taking part in this debate , if more men participated in debates of this kind .
i have therefore tried to establish , in various countries , but also at european level , how many people - insofar as this can be established , because the people concerned are often working ' on the black ' of course - work in this sector .
in some cases they are exploited and ill-treated .
i have discovered over the past few weeks that there is a great deal of interest , both within international trade union circles and within a number of national trade union organisations .
mr president , commissioner , domestic work is the oldest work that women have carried out .
this initiative report is very timely , since it deals with a growing need within the labour market .
mr president , on behalf of my group , i would like to pay tribute to mrs smet for initiating the drafting of this report .
because if you believe that domestic work should be recognised as an occupation in its own right , and mrs smet says that , and i echo her sentiments , then what you meet with in the first instance is disbelief and a lack of understanding .
the answer is ' yes ' , but then we will need a european definition , and the countries , the governments , will have to make more effort to get the issue of illegal work out into the open .
the answer is ' no ' .
any one demanding this is confusing two issues .
but whatever happens , we must ensure that this type of work is established in a legal and social framework which affords those concerned recognition and social security cover , and which improves the quality of the work itself .
we shall nonetheless be voting against the report as a whole in the light of the subsidiarity principle .
the fact is that there are thousands of women who have been doing all these jobs for years without insurance cover or pension rights .
many women have been able to obtain a permanent job through this work .
of course , we do have the commission communication on undeclared work which was recently adopted by parliament and which could be used as a basis , including by the member states in collaboration with the commission , for policies to bring domestic work within the legal economy .
however , what i can say is that the guidelines for 2001 are the first to clearly mention undeclared work and that we intend to work on the basis of the proposal in the conclusions and compile statistics and studies to record the problem so that we can hold a second debate and discuss what the next step should be at european level .
the debate is closed .
but the jubilation accompanying this great victory for freedom , which you gained by peaceful means at great risk to your own freedom , must not lead us to underestimate the enormous challenges that await you : the consolidation of democracy ; the restoration of peace and harmony among all the communities living in yugoslavia ; its reconstruction with a view to rediscovering the road to prosperity ; its peaceful relations with its neighbours ; the return of displaced people to their villages ; those missing in action , whose families desperately wait for news ; the necessary cooperation , when the time comes , with the international court of justice in the hague , to ensure that what took place can never happen again and , finally , of course , the institutional future of kosovo , whose wounds are still open , as well as the future of montenegro .
as regards the most sensitive issues that remain to be resolved , notably in relation to kosovo , the european parliament has always hoped that peaceful solutions will be found , in accordance with un resolutions on the integrity and sovereignty of yugoslavia , in terms of fundamental human rights .
rest assured , mr president , that it is in this spirit that the european parliament , co-decider of the community budget , will lend you its full support so that european aid for the reconstruction of your country is truly in line with its needs .
their accession will be a major step towards the reunification , in an expression of solidarity , of the family of states and peoples that make up europe .
but now , in the wake of the decisive political turn of 24 september , or the even more decisive shift of 5 october , the major goal in yugoslavia 's foreign policy is to approach in a comprehensive manner a family of nations comprising the european union and then join it .
it is precisely the european union 's experience that sets a shining example not only for european countries that have yet to join , but also the whole world , when it comes to a direction mankind should take if it wishes to leave behind force , wars and domination as the means to achieve particular national interests .
secondly , the step-by-step approach western european countries have taken towards integration is a model we should adopt in the balkan processes of integration in order to qualify for entry into the european union .
not only should we build democratic institutions , a task we have already embarked on , we should also imbue them with the democratic spirit , which may prove much more difficult .
not only are we to carry out privatisation of our centralised economy , but also create a legal system that would guarantee the freedom of business operations and the entire economic process .
simultaneously with building the confidence of our citizens in our state institutions , we have to persuade them to trust the european institutions that , in nearly fifty years of their existence , have brought to their citizens lasting peace and prosperity .
the democratic changes that began in yugoslavia on 5 october have produced at miraculous speed extraordinary results on the international political plane .
yugoslavia has regained its seats in the united nations and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe , joined the stability pact for south eastern europe , while proceedings for its admission to the council of europe have been initiated .
i believe europe has both the strength and the will to help us exercise the fundamental right of each and every human being to live in his own home .
also , we will need europe 's assistance in establishing and resolving the great ecological problems caused by the use of depleted uranium in the bombing of yugoslavia .
the first step ahead of us in a bid to restructure the federal state constitutionally is to define a framework for the broadest possible democratic dialogue about the character of relations between the two republics .
a democratic joint state makes it possible for muslims and albanians in montenegro and serbia to live in a single state , and enables us to join forces in building our equally joint state .
development and local self-rule inyugoslavia is the issue we pay special attention to .
the grave situation in the yugoslav economy has been discussed at length .
the humanitarian aid to our country that has been initiated is priceless , but we hope that europe will replace it with investment programmes that would make it possible for us to work and earn enough for a normal life .
yet it is certain that our chances today are much more realistic than they were a mere month and a half ago .
after all , europe is a home we all share . ( loud and sustained applause ) mr president , thank you very much for your address which , as you see , has had a great impact on the people assembled in this chamber .
you talked about the evolution of the democratic process and we listened attentively to everything you said in this regard .
and then , with great frankness , you touched on the major challenges that await you , almost all of those i mentioned earlier .
the people who installed the system have been here for some time trying to find out where the problem is .
mr president , on page 27 of the annex to the minutes my vote is recorded as having been cast in favour of amendment no 20 to the morillon report .
we want to be registered as voting in favour of the release of leyla zana and the other kurdish prisoners .
my aim throughout the report has been to produce a proposal which is politically mature , eminently reasonable and practical for both the institutions and the citizen .
this report is even more urgent in light of the rules which were adopted by the council in august , the so-called ' solana decision ' .
as a collection of 15 member states we approach the issue of public access to documents differently , but i am glad to see that , largely , the european parliament stands as a bulwark against the forces which seek to keep the doors of the institutions closed to the public .
access to documents and information regarding the activities of the institutions enables citizens to hold the eu governing bodies accountable and stimulates greater efficiency .
it is clear that article 255 of the treaty permits a broader interpretation of citizens ' access to documents of the institutions , so allow me to outline some of the changes in my report .
all the institutions and bodies covered by article 255 should be expressly stated in the regulation and should include not only committees and working groups , but all agencies created by the institutions .
the classification system outlined in my report is intended to make the process of access to documents easier .
what we must ensure is that the existing or future interinstitutional agreements , referred to in my report , have as their legal basis the article 255 rule in order to ensure that a coherent framework is agreed between the institutions , with the maximum right of access for the citizen .
mr president , it was a long time before the european commission submitted a proposal in the field of openness of government .
there has been a fair amount of criticism on the part of the journalist organisations , the ngos , a number of member states and also parliament .
it therefore comes as no surprise that there is a broad package of amendments , so broad in fact that the regulation is being adapted to a quite considerable extent .
so there is a huge number of amendments and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , michael cashman , for his cooperation with the committee on constitutional affairs and with myself .
another important amendment is the proposal to have not just the council , the commission and parliament fall within the scope of the regulation , but also all the external bodies .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the right to become acquainted with the contents of the documents of the european union ' s institutions is a precondition of the public ' s ability to monitor decision-making generally and influence it .
at the moment in the european union there already exists the practice of public access to documentation , and we should remember that brave citizens and many progressive member states have been fighting for increased transparency for many years .
the report we are now examining in many respects takes the situation in a better direction .
this is a vague area , and it is possible that more restrictive provisions may also remain in force , and this is one point in respect of which we have tabled amendments .
mr president , the right of members of parliament to confidential documents is a very important issue , but it cannot replace the direct right of access to information on the part of the public .
in this sphere , too , every document must be examined individually .
the cashman report is the first step on a long road towards increased openness , democracy and confidence on the part of our citizens .
we are glad that the report repeats a crucial principle that we in the committee on budgetary control also vehemently support .
i also hope that the council and the commission can give us a commitment today to continuing to deal with this issue in a positive way so that we might , as quickly as possible , start making the necessary changes to the business procedures in such a way as to benefit people and the image of the institutions .
the committee would like all documents to be included , irrespective of whether they have been drawn up by the institutions or whether the institutions have them in their possession .
time is power in our society .
we would also like to emphasis the important role the ombudsman has played in the progress that has , nevertheless , been made .
mr president , the cashman report can be summarised in four words : citizens ' power over bureaucracy .
the general public 's right of access to the eu institutions ' documents is one of the mainstays in the establishment of an open and democratic eu .
the principle of access to documents must of course include all the institutions and bodies of the eu .
the document should then be made available .
the basic principle of the proposal on our table now is that all documents must be made public .
the doctrine of political responsibility must not be confused with the citizens ' rights to openness .
mr president , mr cashman , let there be no mistake , my group also feels that your report is a major step forwards in comparison with the commission ' s report .
in other words , as i see it , a link has been established - erroneously so - between the rights of parliamentarians and the rights of the public .
mr president , we have talked such a lot in parliament about bringing the union closer to the people , and i think then , if this is what we really want , that this project is crucial .
i should like to emphasise that we shall , in any case , vote in favour of as broad a definition as we possibly can of what the documents in question are .
there is a multiplicity of documents nowadays , and we should like to ensure that there is a high degree of access to as many different types of document in as many different forms as is humanly possible .
i cannot understand how it can be accepted that citizens of the european union should have poorer rights of access to documents than citizens in some individual member states .
i cannot understand why it should be more important or dangerous if something were to be leaked from this ' community ' , as it is called , than if something similar were to be leaked from the swedish , or possibly danish , government .
the third concern relates to the limited access to examination scripts from the union 's recruitment competitions .
our vote will therefore be targeted at finding the right balance between the two extremes .
mr president , the commission ' s attitude to the right of access to documents may be seen from the internal handbook sent on 11 october to employees of the commission to tell them how to deal with requests from meps for access to documents .
on 13 october , it was sent to parliament , but i have only just seen it tonight .
there is only one person - the chairman of the committee on budgetary control - who is in a position to request information in connection with the discharge procedure .
this internal handbook for employees goes on to state that , if an mep finds an interesting piece of information in a newspaper and would like to see the document concerned , then there is only one member of parliament who can submit such a request , and that is the president of parliament .
all meps are therefore justified in going to their groups ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , transparency ensures greater participation by the citizens in the decision-making process together with greater legitimacy , efficiency and responsibility on the part of the administration in a democratic system .
if it is applied extensively , the list of exceptions in article 4 could totally destroy the object of this regulation .
the purpose of this regulation is to optimise access to documents while adhering as far as possible to the principle of openness .
the proposed regulation can only achieve that aim if the list of exceptions in article 4 is toned down , to say the least .
openness in legislative work and in public administration is , of course , crucial to our democracies being able to function .
but once this report is voted on today , parliament will stand ready to negotiate with the commission and the council a code which will cause citizens to blink in the bright strasbourg sunshine .
the freedom of information act foreseen in article 255 will rip it asunder .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur and everyone else involved in this work .
included in this , apart from this draft legislation which regulates citizens ' right of access to documents , are the framework agreement between the commission and parliament and other agreements such as the solana decision .
the cashman report constitutes an improvement on the commission 's proposal , but in my opinion the improvement is not sufficient .
the latest report by the court of auditors shows how urgently we need changes here .
one thing is for sure , now that unanimity is no longer required in the council , the only possibility of redressing the balance rests with parliament .
furthermore , i feel that , as the committee on petitions and the ombudsman have requested , we also need to endeavour to outline clearly the institutional and bureaucratic stages in the process , defining the responsibilities which - rightly - still lie with the institutions , therefore without separating the different responsibilities within the organisation .
until now , transparency has been little more than a much-misused slogan when applied to the activities of the eu institutions .
it is not just a matter of the principle of unrestricted access to all documents but also , of course , of finally managing to open the doors of council meetings , so that in future the council can no longer take lonely decisions in camera a la metternich and then go in for cheap ' brussels bashing ' .
the model for us all is the american freedom of information act and the living practice of transparency in sweden .
i am glad that they have been able to work in close and successful cooperation in this matter .
naturally , the documents these bodies hold must unambiguously be included within the scope of provisions on accessibility .
it would be better to create provisions in the paragraphs themselves , which would oblige all bodies to publish their documents and create registers on them .
the provision of derogations is a very delicate matter , and what is otherwise an excellent report and a huge increase in transparency will very easily be overshadowed in the minds of the public by any clumsy set of provisions on derogations .
transparency must become a founding pillar of all the work of the european union , but the right to access documents is still not enough in itself to establish transparency .
mr president , there is a yawning gap between parliament ' s position and those of the council and the commission .
this gap is symbolic of the distance between the european union and its citizens .
that is why parliament is calling for european security and defence policy to be embedded in the structures of the european commission in future .
mr president , i would firstly like to express my satisfaction at being able to explain to you the commission ' s position with regard to the amendments tabled by the various committees on the proposal for a regulation , a regulation which we all consider to be of great importance to the reality of democracy and progress in our society .
in accordance with article 255 of the treaty , the proposed regulation must be adopted before 1 may 2001 , that is to say , two years after the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam .
before presenting the commission ' s position , i would like to point out that , in drawing up its proposal , the commission based its work , on the one hand , on the experience and functioning of the voluntary code of the last six years and , on the other , on a study of the legislation of the member states , some of which have a great deal of experience in providing their citizens access to documents .
the treaty recognises the citizens ' right to have access to the documents of the european institutions in accordance with certain principles and conditions .
when president prodi addressed parliament on 3 october , he referred to the institutional triangle and stated that , in a european system based on checks and balances , the efficient functioning of each institution contributes to the common interest .
we are therefore unable to agree to some of the amendments without prejudging a future negotiation and a definitive position in relation to it .
we must go further in relation to the ways in which the regulation will be applied and implemented , because openness , transparency and the provision of access to documents is an attitude which must be strengthened in our respective administrations and which must become a reality .
one of them is the need to achieve a fair balance between openness and efficiency .
i am referring in particular to texts for internal use and to initial drafts and preparatory study documents for exclusively internal use by the institutions .
all national legislation in this field excludes these documents .
forcing institutions to publish these internal notes could , in many cases , simply lead to confusion amongst the citizens .
the institutions lack experience in this field , since the current system only deals with documents presented by the institutions themselves .
the commission ' s proposal on third-party documents takes account of what was agreed at the last intergovernmental conference - in declaration no 35 of the treaty of amsterdam , which we cannot ignore - which gives them , both the institutions and the third parties , the final word on whether to publish these documents .
parliament ' s amendments completely reverse this approach and we therefore believe that greater consideration is required and that the proposal for a new article 4c , amendment no 36 , is not yet sufficiently mature to be accepted favourably by the commission .
i include here amendments such as those tabled on measures which must be agreed by means of an interinstitutional agreement : amendments nos 34 , 45 , and 48 .
as i pointed out previously , in certain cases we can agree in principle to the amendments , but we have to work together from a technical and administrative point of view , for example with regard to the amendments referring to the classification of documents and the register .
the relationships established by the amendments between rules on classification and rules on the content of the register therefore prevent us from accepting at this stage amendment no 46 relating to the register .
i would like to highlight that , at the right time , the commission could accept practically all the amendments , such as amendments nos 9 , 18 , 21 in part , 23 , 25 , 26.1 , 28 ( f ) , 35 , 38 , 40.1 , 40.6 , 41.1 , 42 , 43.1 , 47 , 49 and 52 .
furthermore , the commission believes that we will be able to reach agreement , with some modifications , on amendments nos 11 , 12 , 40.4 , 40.7 , 43.2 , 47 , 48.4 , 50.1 and 50.2 .
i would like to highlight the fact that , although the commission is only able today to express certain global and positive approaches in certain respects , and with regard to other amendments we are making no comment or only doing so cautiously , this does not mean that we do not want to go ahead with the debate , the negotiation and the search for common ground between the three institutions .
nobody had time to note down the amendments the commissioner listed .
i am making this comment because as a rule the commissioner present gives the commission ' s voting recommendations orally .
but precisely because the commission - i see the commissioner is nodding - is unable to give a definitive answer as yet , it is in fact a little risky to get everything down in black and white at this early stage , because then we will lose control of the situation .
so what i would actually like to ask now , is whether parliament can pursue its own decision-making process , in a sense independently of the commission ' s position , and then we can explore how the rapporteurs can engage in further consultations with the commission in order to reach a definitive viewpoint .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 12 noon .
the joint parliamentary committee was informed about the most recent developments by the european commission , the incumbent president of the council of the european union , and by the government of the republic of malta .
we make a number of political demands in our report from the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
the rules should be as easy as possible for these institutions to use .
lastly , and most controversially , the committee strongly called for the use of a fast-track procedure to implement this legislation .
that was not only three years when eu banks were at a severe competitive disadvantage - and there is evidence that they suffered severely - but also three years when european consumers were denied a modern , state-of-the-art regulatory framework .
that is what we will be doing unless we review our procedures .
these amendments replace various other proposals in the report that will probably be rejected in the vote and which will then be replaced by the new amendments arising from this consensus ( parliament adopted the legislative resolution ) mr president , we have just voted , in the absence of a number of members , on a declaration on bse .
mr bourlanges , i am afraid that this is a serious illness .
we are dealing with a very important piece of legislation and with important articles .
it so happens that the report has not yet been debated , and will not be until after the voting this evening .
not only does it raise the financial services issue , it could have far-reaching implications in terms of our procedure , in terms of the codecision procedure and in terms of our relationship with the commission .
mr president , a vote has just been taken in favour of postponing my report .
i will go along with this , but had you gone down the list in the right order and not had the vote on the cashman report first , because a number of people are absent this evening - for that is the reason - then there would still have been time to vote on the smet report .
mr president , i find , somewhat to my consternation , that the vote on the report i was to present in plenary and which is on this morning ' s agenda has been postponed inadvertently without anyone noticing .
resolution on bse ( b5-0880 / 2000 ) mr president , i should like to give an explanation of vote on the bse feed resolution .
i also voted against amendment no 7 because i do not believe it is possible , but i did vote for the resolution as a whole , especially the ban on the mammalian meat-and-bone meal feed for all farm animals , as we have had in the uk since 1996 .
mr president , i voted for the report on our great parliament 's initiative on the serious crisis in we which find ourselves due to the spread of this epidemic amongst cattle .
i would like to point out that my intention in voting for the motion was , inter alia , to support point 7 of the report .
cases of bse have been identified in france because it was the only country in the european union which took the initiative to apply a system of extensive controls .
yesterday ' s debate in this chamber on mad cow disease and the safety of animal feed displayed , above all , the extreme confusion in regard to the allocation of responsibilities and in people ' s minds .
that is why we want to learn four major lessons which should be borne in mind for the future .
moreover , the ambiguous wording of paragraph 4 is bound to raise questions about the resolve of the authorities to oppose , by all possible means , the fraud and swindling of the agri-food trusts , when it would have been so much simpler to say in a few words that the production and use of meat-and-bone meal are totally forbidden . - ( fr ) we voted in favour of this joint resolution .
the european parliament must exert pressure on the commission , which was overly cautious in the proposals it made during the debate .
finally , this unprecedented crisis emphasises the limitations of the common agricultural policy , which we have seen for many years now .
it is therefore necessary to establish as soon as possible the procedures to prevent the use of anatomical parts liable to lead to the transmission of the virus .
the commission 's proposals contained in the white paper on food safety and , in particular , the establishment of the authority which is to guarantee this safety , must be implemented as soon as possible - over a year has passed and the authority is not yet operative - in order to avoid the confusion of actions carried out by the governments on the subject causing damage such as that which we are witnessing now .
above all , yesterday ' s debate highlighted the differences of opinion on how to deal with the crisis : differences between member states , differences of political approach , differences between the community institutions .
so we are now facing an absolutely fundamental safety problem affecting the public health of our peoples and the very future of an entire industry that plays a decisive role in the social balance in some of our member states .
the debate has shown that the council presidency and the commission are very much at sea on this issue .
it decided it was a good idea to pour derision on the protective measures adopted by some member states , in particular with its reference to ' magic ' in regard to the total ban on meat-and-bone meal .
the commission is clearly envisaging no more than half-way measures , which will take away from and not add to the countries with the most stringent safety , whereas , in line with the principle of subsidiarity , it should be giving member states back the freedom of action they need to protect their people effectively , to ensure their safety , taking account of public opinion in their country , the political resolve there , the scale of the epidemic in their country and the place of the sectors involved in that country ' s economy and their society .
the commission proposal goes back to 1998 , but , because of the many points of disagreement between parliament and the council , the conciliation committee had to be convened on 11 october .
these two treatment methods must form part of a global strategy that covers the prevention , re-use and recycling of waste , a strategy that is coordinated at european level .
in the course of the debates that marked the two readings by the european parliament , i expressed my doubts and fears about lumping hazardous and non-hazardous waste together in the same directive .
it managed to get this point through during the conciliation procedure .
the european parliament has been to the forefront in devising new waste management strategies in recent years .
all these measures reflect changing public opinions on the issue of waste management .
figueiredo report ( a5-0307 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the figuereido report on the eradication of social exclusion and poverty , to quote the actual text of the report .
the main reason we did not vote against it is because its author set out a few good intentions .
this figure of 65 million poor is not the effect of some misfortune that has come out of the blue ; it is the result of the greed of a privileged capitalist class intent on boosting company profits and stock exchange rates , which therefore makes people redundant , closes down factories , reducing 15 million women and men to unemployment , and puts such pressure on all wages that the lowest wages are not enough to live on .
the report proposes a budget of eur 100 million over five years to combat poverty .
we realise that no report and no vote , even by the european parliament , can alter this situation .
let me remind you that lisbon defined a common strategy of social inclusion .
social exclusion is a very real phenomenon , as the eurostat statistics show : some 18 % of the population of the european union lives on less than 60 % of the average national income - this is the low-income threshold taken to measure relative poverty - which means that 65 million people live on low incomes .
even though the unemployment rate has fallen , there are still 16 million unemployed in the european union .
i unreservedly support the proposal to implement a second luxembourg process to deal with social exclusion , containing guidelines and national action programmes .
the lisbon european council set the european union the objective of becoming a knowledge-based , competitive and inclusive society .
universal service has a prime role to play in this regard .
the primary purpose of the report is to support a programme of community action to encourage cooperation between member states of the eu to combat social exclusion .
the fact of the matter is that long-term unemployment and youth unemployment are quite concentrated in particular areas within the european union .
devising initiatives to defeat the problems of social exclusion and to give hope and opportunities to the disadvantaged in our society must be a central core policy of all governments within the eu at this time .
i believe that the rapporteur is right when he calls for greater participation of public authorities , social partners and civil society in measures to defeat poverty and social exclusion at this time .
since europe cannot be economically strong without social justice , we can only welcome this progress .
that is why i have no option but to vote in favour of this report by our colleague , which not only endorses the commission ' s proposal but also enhances its content .
moreover , the report calls on the member states to be more proactive and set precise objectives when they draw up their national action plans .
in conclusion , our committee on social affairs , is proposing a budget of eur 100 million instead of the eur 70 proposed by the commission .
that is why we will vote in favour of the report on combating exclusion .
yet the members who will be endorsing this text today did not show the same surge of solidarity when they voted for a charter without social rights which , in reducing measures to combat exclusion to the level of measures of assistance , constitutes a step backward in relation to much of the legislation now in force .
in submitting its proposal for a programme to combat social exclusion , the commission is complying with the council ' s call to present " by june 2000 " an " initiative for cooperation in this field . "
according to eurostat figures , some 18 % of the population of the eu live on less than 60 % of the average national income ( taking the low-income threshold as a measure of relative poverty ) .
cooperation between member states is crucial for tackling these deep rooted problems that exist all across the eu , but particularly in my own constituency in the north-west of england .
moss side and salford are amongst the most deprived inner city areas in the whole of europe .
the british labour government has been leading the fight against poverty and social exclusion .
this is a great example of the labour government delivering concrete benefits to ordinary people .
rothe report ( a5-0320 / 2000 ) mr president , i abstained from the vote for one specific reason : in my opinion , this report has not made the environmental progress that i hoped and called for .
what the report seeks is precisely the opposite .
mr president , i voted for the report on the promotion of electricity from renewable energy sources .
these projections , which are dramatic in the very short term , should convince us of the need to adopt clear , proactive measures at european level targeted at checking this process of degradation in the quality of the environment .
the commission proposal and the rothe report we voted for today follow that line in calling for the promotion of renewable energy sources , which are alternative sources that respect the environment in the production of electricity .
the member states must now pursue the same line and respect the environmental objectives they endorsed both at european level and at international level , but they must also ensure their independence as regards energy and security of supplies .
at present , the union is dependent on outside supplies for about 50 % of its energy , and that figure may well rise to 70 % by the year 2020 unless we develop renewable energy sources .
it is the european commission ' s aim to double the share of renewable energy sources in the total consumption of energy by the year 2010 .
in finland peat is an important renewable energy source , and accounts for 6 % of all fuel used .
the importance of nuclear energy is increasing constantly , for this very reason .
obviously we have to observe more progressive and effective safety and security rules when using nuclear energy and when storing nuclear waste .
yesterday , 15 november , the finnish energy company , teollisuuden voima , requested the finnish council of state to give a decision , in principle , on the construction of a fifth nuclear reactor .
i hope our government and parliament will take a positive view of this request .
a first step here is consistently to break down all obstacles to the use of renewables .
everyone wants a method of electricity production that is as environmentally-friendly as possible , but they also want it as cheaply as possible .
if clean energy remains an expensive option then it will also remain an elite form of energy for some time to come .
clean energy must be available to all and affordable to all .
asem iii resolution ( b5-0811 / 2000 ) - ( fr ) in seoul we saw the blatant contrast between the official summit of the heads of state and government and the citizens ' and popular movements in which i took part .
the alternative forum also encouraged interparliamentary contacts , punctuated by a meeting at the south korean national assembly on 18 october .
mr president , as we all know , the european union has , through the commission , the council and , particularly , the european parliament , for a long time maintained excellent relations with central america , its institutions and , specifically , the countries that comprise it .
in central america , there is already a secretariat for regional integration , a central american bank , a central american upper house and a central american parliament .
we received a delegation from that parliament and made a commitment to improving the political profile not only of its role in that part of the world but also of relations between our parliament and the central american parliament .
this resolution , therefore , means giving political support to the central american parliament , to the democratic stage par excellence , which must strive to be the focus of pluralist debate in that part of the world , and , at the same time , it means sending the message that europe is in favour of regional integration in that part of the world .
mr president , commissioner , the resolution being tabled in this house today on the situation in central america is timely given the recent visit of a delegation from the central american parliament to brussels .
it is timely for three important reasons that affect this special american region , not to mention the importance and political appropriateness of strengthening the dialogue between the european parliament and the central american parliament .
thirdly , because it also coincides with the current philosophy of the european commission in favour of redirecting union external action towards the countries of latin america with the potential impact that this may have .
in this regard , we hope and trust that the necessary amounts will be allocated to provide impetus for the process of regional integration in central america , where dialogue is becoming necessary and essential as a permanent political exercise .
we are therefore pleased with this political declaration by our parliament in relation to the central american parliament , because it recognises the role that this institution plays in the process of integrating the countries of this area , situated between the north and south of america .
i remember very well that throughout these years this delegation has maintained extraordinary relations with parlacen and with the other latin american parliaments .
we believe that , not only now but since parlacen was born , there are people who wish it to have fewer competences and less of a presence , because a parliament always creates discomfort , but i believe that the vocation of parlacen , and of this and other parliaments , is to be of benefit to the people it represents , even if this may make the established powers feel uncomfortable .
mr president , in this debate , we wish to express - as many previous speakers have done very effectively - this parliament ' s solidarity with , and support for , the central american parliament at a time when we are fighting to continue to prioritise the european union ' s external relations with the countries of latin america .
mr president , parliaments - as you and all of us in parliament know very well - have today , more than ever , the difficult task , amongst others , of showing leadership in the development of our societies , of leading the quest for solutions to the many problems facing us by strengthening the values of democracy and social justice which we stand for .
in the case of the central american parliament , this task is , if possible , even more important given the enormous challenge of the integration and structural development of these societies on the basis of peace , dialogue and reconciliation .
i believe that the european parliament is capable of demonstrating , through its actions , that it has a very positive view of the work of parlacen by offering it its support and experience .
within the framework of our respective integration processes , it is clear that both the european parliament and the central american parliament are required to play an increasingly important role .
the central american parliament will continue on its own course and will take a political path in a central america which , i believe , wishes to and must regain possession of itself in a full union of diversity .
the central american parliament , like the european parliament , must gain prestige , credibility and legitimacy on the basis of the activity of its political groups , because the life of the parties is , or at least should be , a faithful reflection of the societies they represent .
mr president , through this resolution we therefore wish to express our support for , and solidarity with , the central american parliament and also to ask the commission to decisively support the multiannual programme which parlacen has presented to the commission , since we believe that , as an institution , it legitimises the process of integration in central america and serves as a symbol of a new era of dialogue and peace .
i agree with the words of the honourable member from the canary islands coalition insofar as we show our support for parlacen because of its importance in terms of the consolidation of democratic structures and , therefore , we , as the european parliament , must stand united with an institution such as that .
i believe that on these issues we have to continue to preach at home what we want to happen throughout the world , without averting our eyes when human rights are trampled underfoot in other parts of the world .
mr president , the commission takes note of the proposals for resolutions tabled by parliament on respect for human rights in central america , the process of democratisation and regional integration , and on the special importance which you attach to the role of the central american parliament .
the commission follows the situation in the region with great interest and our priority objectives in our relations with the region focus on the three points which you have highlighted : respect for human rights , the consolidation of the democratic process and the strengthening of regional integration .
with regard to human rights , we have , since 1990 , been supporting the cooperation programmes in favour of respect for human rights by means of education and raising awareness in this area .
you are well aware that between 1990 and 2000 eur 65 million has been spent on this activity , which we continue to support with a view to the future .
for the next multiannual programme , which will begin soon , we are considering an additional contribution of more than eur 10 million in order to continue this activity .
within our framework of cooperation with the area , we have paid special attention to all those institutions which support regional integration , the general secretariat of the central american integration system , the court of justice and especially parlacen , which is one of our priority objectives .
finally , in the dialogue with the central american authorities , the commission is also reiterating the importance which must be attached to the process of regional integration as an instrument to consolidate democratisation and development in the region .
on this issue , we are also working on the definition of a new cooperation programme which should allow us to concentrate on these three fundamental elements : economic integration - the implementation of common policies - the strengthening of the institutions and the strengthening of civil society .
these points seem to us to be essential and should be the key elements of our multiannual programme between 2000 and 2006 .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m .
mr president , for a long time cote d 'ivoire stood out as a pillar of stability and relative prosperity in the tormented life of west africa .
in this way he has brought cote d 'ivoire to the brink of civil and ethnic war .
now this process needs to be confirmed rapidly by the organisation of free , transparent and pluralist legislative elections in which all the political forces can take part .
we must take note of this return to a democratic process that may indeed be incomplete , but that we must continue to support .
the extreme confusion that has characterised the electoral process over recent weeks in cote d 'ivoire , which had looked like a model economy until now , is symptomatic of a country in crisis , reflected by an economy in crisis , social despair and , consequently , political chaos .
similarly , this democratic process can only become more credible if a national reconciliation committee is created , together with a national electoral committee to prepare and guarantee future elections , especially the elections of 10 december .
we as a european union , must be prepared to continue to provide assistance , but this will only be possible if the country is run properly and democratisation really takes shape .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i believe the first question that arises in cote d ' ivoire is that of democracy .
for almost a year now , a few of us in this house , in particular most of my colleagues , have been alerted to the situation in cote d ' ivoire , which i really believe offers a perfect example of how not to do things .
everybody just let it happen , as though they had not learned any lessons from rwanda or former yugoslavia .
and now they are surprised to see general guei end up rigging the elections .
first of all , i believe the european union should welcome the fact that the new president , laurent gbagbo , is setting up a national reconciliation committee .
and indeed that is why president gbagbo must not dismiss the possibility of holding presidential elections , as the direct follow-up to these legislative elections .
but above all , we must , in my view , insist much more firmly on this racist constitution being declared null and void .
in the same way , i believe that the 14 parties that have been excluded must be reintegrated and play a full part in these elections .
the european union must also make sure that none of its members establishes relations with its former colonies - and let me emphasise this - that are based solely on economic interests or geostrategic location .
it was on the basis of such considerations that hubert vedrine , the head of the french diplomatic service , actually went so far as to explain that from a certain point of view these elections were legal because they were founded on a constitution .
the european union , and also this parliament , made an important contribution to this by demanding that democratic elections take place and instituting the suspension procedure .
at least 170 people died and 350 were wounded .
it would not be illogical for the european union to immediately demand new presidential elections , in which all candidates would be able to participate this time round .
but i recognise that there are a number of reasons for not doing so .
after all , against this background , he offered his opponents various ministerial posts and declared 9 november a national day of mourning .
as some delegates have already said , this must inevitably lead to the parliamentary elections on 10 december , which all parties must be able to take part in .
but the real test for gbagdo will be on 10 december .
but we must also say that the day of reconciliation on 9 november will send out new signals in regard to establishing democracy and the rule of law and taking seriously the demand for national reconciliation .
the european union has been asked , and has declared itself prepared , to help ensure that the elections in december , as well as the local elections in january , are conducted in a peaceful , fair , free and transparent manner .
we know that millions of people living in cote d 'ivoire come from one of its neighbouring countries .
conversely , we refuse to associate ourselves with the representatives of political parties who were or are involved in france ' s africa policy .
mr president , by means of various recent declarations , the european union has condemned the abuses of general guei ' s regime ; it has also expressed its regret at the outright exclusion of the main opposition candidates from the election of 22 october , which has to a large extent limited the credibility of that very electoral process .
the union has condemned general guei ' s attempt to confiscate the election results and subsequently the army ' s violent repression of the demonstrations in favour of laurent gbagbo and , above all , the bloody inter-ethnic massacres which have been perpetrated on the native people of the north of cote d ' ivoire .
the commission believes that in the current circumstances the priority should be for the legislative elections that are scheduled to be held on 10 december to be open and transparent .
these elections must enable the political parties that were excluded from the presidential election to be represented at national level and thereby compensate , though only partially , for the defects of that first election .
these elections should make up one of the key elements of the national reconciliation that we all wish to see and are calling for .
the european community will provide financial support for these elections to be held , and we will also cooperate by providing some one hundred observers .
once these elections have taken place and depending on the way they are carried out , we will be able to consider holding in-depth discussions with the new ivoirian authorities in order to determine the conditions in which we can re-establish our cooperation .
the commission recognises other priorities with regard to emergencies , which are closely related to issues such as health or education , especially in rural areas , and this is fundamental to this process being carried out in an open and democratic manner .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m .
burma / myanmar : mr president , i am very glad that there has been such strong support across the house for the powerful statement we have in this resolution condemning the military junta in burma .
the forthcoming eu / asean meeting in laos in december offers us a crucial opportunity to demonstrate our condemnation of this regime in the strongest terms .
we are calling for the council and the commission to postpone that meeting , to call it off , until the burmese junta releases all political prisoners without conditions and allows freedom of movement for aung san suu kyi and her party members and until the burmese junta enters into a meaningful dialogue with the election-winning nld and the ethnic minorities .
the opportunity to call off and to postpone this meeting that is due next month in laos offers us the opportunity to make the statement in the strongest terms , to send the strongest possible signal that we condemn this illegal regime .
aung san suu kyi must be released and allowed to travel freely and a troika must be allowed to go to burma and to go anywhere and meet anyone they like .
aung san suu kyi has reiterated recently that constructive engagement with rangoon is not working and she and the nld have asked for the meeting to be postponed .
if the eu goes ahead , the junta would be encouraged and heartened by the decision to sit our foreign ministers from democratic european governments around a table which includes the military junta of burma .
mr president , there are several reasons as to why we are once again discussing burma - in fact this is the second time since the summer - and nor is this the first time this year that this country has been on the agenda .
it is true that james mawdsley , the activist we talked about two months ago , has been released since then .
the military regime in burma claims to be able to maintain order and stability in a country where ethnic rivalries are never far away .
its sad inheritance of colonialism and neo-colonialism obliges the european union to take a firm , very brave and decisive stance , in order to aid the re-establishment of democracy in various parts of the world , such as latin america , which currently faces the problem of guatemala with its fight against the impunity of military figures , africa or , in this case , burma .
we therefore reaffirm the importance of this resolution and the firm commitment of the commission and the council in this direction .
as we sit here in our climate-controlled comfort , the democratically elected parliamentarians of burma are under house arrest , in hiding and under the gravest possible threat .
twice since last september we have passed resolutions deploring the administration in burma and despite our clear and heartfelt views on this matter , we know that the eu countries will be sending foreign ministers to meet their asean counterparts in laos next month .
yesterday mr james mawdsley , who was released from burma , sent me a message which i want to read out to you .
the regime also boasts that they will kill all karen and they are committing genocide among the karen , karenni and shan ethnic groups of burma .
the regime 's hatred of the ethnic groups and for the nld cannot be checked by appeals to reason or morality .
mr president , for many years i have had a poster on the wall of my office of aung san suu kyi when she was awarded the sakharov prize by this parliament .
but , as has been said by many of the excellent speeches this afternoon , there remains still nothing but despair about this wonderful , gentle , charming and immensely brave woman and her attempts to keep the flag of freedom flying in her own country .
asean has become , in every sense of the word , a paper tiger in its failure to deal with the awful events in burma .
however , i do believe that the international community needs to move on from rhetoric to real action and , as a member of parliament 's delegation for relations with the member states of asean , south-east asia and the republic of korea , i am disappointed and concerned like others before me that the eu has decided to enter into dialogue with asean in laos next month at ministerial level .
i know the arguments that the asean member states have put to our delegation about including burma in this group .
burma has been a member of asean for a number of years and there is absolutely no evidence to date that shows any improvement or an end to forced labour or executions or suppression of free speech and free movement .
the list of human rights violations by this regime continues to get longer and longer each year .
the junta should also enter into dialogue with the nld and the ethnic nationalities .
mr president , the human rights situation in burma continues to deteriorate under the not-so-gentle control of the military junta .
but it not just aung san suu kyi , it is not just the military , it is not just the nld - there are almost 3 000 political prisoners who are suffering from hard labour and torture .
vietnam mr president , i am delighted that vietnam is on the agenda at last .
so i believe this is an important resolution .
mr president , i agree in many important respects with the previous speakers , because much of what is happening in vietnam today is unacceptable .
i myself once travelled in this country and came to know its vitality , beauty and wealth of resources .
if you are now more or less announcing that you will vote against these amendments , then unfortunately i must announce that we will probably abstain from the vote on this resolution .
the war between these two countries has not led to lasting bitterness .
contrary to amendment no 1 tabled by the pse group , i noted in a document published on 10 november , that human rights watch regards the human rights situation as being grave on quite a number of counts .
the most recent edition of the asian weekly ' far east and economic review ' today refers to the existence of top secret documents originating from vietnam .
president clinton would do well to raise this matter during his present visit to hanoi .
firstly , with regard to myanmar , my colleague chris patten has already condemned before this house the constant violations of human rights by the military regime in burma : executions without trial , the widespread imposition of forced labour , the enforced uprooting of local populations , hundreds of political prisoners in the country ' s prisons and the clear hindering of the free functioning of political parties .
he also expressed his concern about the detention and harassment of aung san suu kyi and the members of the national league for democracy .
however , the commission remains convinced that a lasting solution to the current situation can only be found by means of dialogue between the military regime , the democratically elected opposition and the representatives of the ethnic minorities .
the general affairs council has tried to persuade the military regime of the value of this argument in favour of political dialogue and to exert pressure so that there might be changes and it will continue to do so .
despite everything , we are convinced that we must not allow the situation prevailing in myanmar to hijack the dialogue between the european union and asean .
three years have passed since we held a ministerial meeting with our asean partners , which is far too long a time in our relations with a region that is important for the european union from the political and economic points of view .
however , that does not mean that , either now or in december , we should behave as if the accession of myanmar to asean had not affected our relations , because it has .
our asean partners know this very well and are concerned to repair this damage ; on the other hand , they know that encouraging burma to make a genuine effort and to put an end to its appalling behaviour in the field of human rights is the best way to revive relations between the union and asean .
i believe that the european union-asean ministerial meeting should be taken as a new opportunity to clearly and firmly express our opinions on the situation prevailing in burma , both to the regime itself as well as to the members of asean .
we will therefore exert pressure on the military regime to put an end to the violations of human rights and begin a dialogue with the democratically elected opposition and the representatives of the ethnic minorities .
with regard to the issue of vietnam and the human rights situation , i would like to point out the following : we must remember that vietnam is a country in transition , that its government initiated a process which led to the adoption in 1986 of a reform programme that embraced external relations and political and economic change .
furthermore , the process has led to the signing of a cooperation agreement between the commission and vietnam in 1995 .
during this time , vietnam has made advances towards a market economy , which has , in particular , led to its presentation of a request to join the world trade organisation .
furthermore - and i think this should be highlighted today - within the framework of the new constitution adopted in 1992 , vietnam has an elected national parliament , which has the duty of adopting legislation and to which the government must answer in relation to its policies .
the circumstances surrounding the execution at the beginning of this year of a vietnamese-canadian citizen undoubtedly support our convictions in this regard .
along with the member states , the commission participates in all the initiatives adopted by the european union directed at the vietnamese government in relation to human rights and i can assure you that , within this process , we will continue to raise specific problems and cases and to promote a steady improvement in the human rights situation in vietnam .
mr president , i just want to ask commissioner solbes mira whether he can give a few details of this revolutionary development , namely the elections of a democratic parliament in vietnam , to which he referred in his statement .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
the eu has a wonderful opportunity to really take a lead in this change to an ecologically sustainable society where we will not have to deal with floods partly caused by our own inability to face up to the consequences of our own actions .
two major roads were cut for a number of days : the a38 north of gloucester and the a417 west of gloucester .
in devon , the river taw had the highest level since records began .
in somerset , we had tidal flooding across the coastline .
in dorchester , the river frome was so high that a major-incident plan was invoked to deal with the possible consequences .
the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to waste no time in expressing their support in practical ways by marshalling workers and equipment under the five-year plan establishing a community action programme in the field of civil protection which was adopted on 9 december 1999 .
however , this resolution tabled right across parliament , including by my colleagues from england , deals with a very real and short-term problem faced by thousands and thousands of people in britain and across europe .
there is a question as to whether some of these people who have been flooded will be able to be reinsured and whether the insurance companies will take this on again .
i ask you all to support our resolution .
in my own constituency the towns of clonmel , fermoy and mallow were the worst affected .
it is very regrettable that we , the european union , do not have a budget line to assist those who face these particular difficulties , despite my attempts and attempts by others over many years to get such a budget line instated .
mr president , commissioner , the floods which have affected various areas of northern italy and other european countries such as the united kingdom , spain , ireland and france in recent weeks once again raise the issue for parliament both of an extraordinary , urgent intervention to alleviate the distress of the people , communities and companies affected , and a longer term policy to prevent the repetition of natural disasters of this scale .
certain regions of italy have suffered particularly badly for the second time in less than a month .
the damage is considerable this time as well , people have died and the material damage has been enormous .
and given the remarkable scale of the disaster , the request made in the resolution which we tabled together with other groups is totally justified , despite the fact that these issues have been debated recently in this house - on 26 october to be precise - and that a parliamentary resolution was adopted on that occasion as well .
mr president , throughout their various interventions , meps have concentrated on two quite different points : in the first place , the problem of climate change and , in the second place , what the commission or the european union can do in a situation like the present one , with the extremely serious floods that have occurred .
with regard to the first subject , i should like to point out that , as parliament also does , we attach great importance to the problem of climate change and to the conference that is at this moment taking place in the hague .
the energy and transport sectors produce 85 % of the total emissions of greenhouse gases in the european union .
on this basis , the commission is shortly going to be proposing two strategic documents : a combination of policies and measures designed to provide a response to the kyoto commitments and to the objectives regarding transport and energy .
the commission has taken two initiatives along these lines .
the commission ' s proposal , which commissioner wallstrom explained in detail in this parliament , is therefore to use the currently existing eaggf funds , or the structural funds of the interreg funds .
as we said just now , we are entirely sympathetic to these practical projects , and i want to insist upon this point today , but it is absolutely essential to be able to rely on these proposals if we are to be able to take action .
the article does not relate to community aid , but relates to the compatibility of national aid with community legislation .
what this article says is that , in the case of natural catastrophes , national aid may be compatible .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
mr president , i regard this a relatively important report , because it concerns a policy that accounts for a significant share of public expenditure , both at european union level and at the level of its component member states .
so we should now be voting on this highly important text in the presence of only 171 meps , which is the number just counted .
postponing the vote would mean postponing the task we entrust to the commission .
but if you would permit me please , i should like to say that , whatever the view of the house on this issue , i do not appreciate the fact that almost constantly today various colleagues , in various groups , for various reasons - which may be sound - have removed our right to vote here in strasbourg on thursday , let alone friday .
as a general principle , this is a very bad way to proceed .
i would urge caution on all colleagues in all of the committees and groups who choose now progressively to undermine the dignity and substance of the work of this house . ( applause ) thank you mr cox .
amendment 1 : mr president , on behalf of rapporteur rocard , i would like , in any case , to table an oral amendment to amendment no 1 .
there was a large crowd of pensioners and elderly people and they said to me : " mr fatuzzo , we were not able to vote for your pensioners ' party because , as you see , we are here in the afterlife .
the economic and social policy of the au , which has resulted in the reduced purchasing power of and facilities available to workers , as regards the payment of contributions , the emergence of new diseases and the unaccountability of pharmaceutical companies , have caused health costs to spiral .
differences between insurance systems in individual member states and obstacles to the free movement of people and freedom of residence in another member state cannot be used as a pretext for privatising a large part - and later all - of the health care system .
this is a serious problem if it means that people are to be treated differently on the basis of their financial circumstances and health situation .
michel rocard ' s report emphasises that health insurance is primarily a concern for the member states and that the proximity principle should apply .
because that is so , i think it is premature to incorporate in this resolution a long and very detailed list of points to be included in a proposal for a commission directive .
instead of regarding health insurance as part of remuneration for work or as part of payments replacing wages , increasingly , this provision is being made dependent on savings and investments .
these national provisions are life-saving measures .
however , if we are to have an effective system that can cope with increasing pressure on existing national services , and that makes europe a healthier place for our citizens , then we should also recognise the importance of supplementary insurance providers .
the health of our citizens is extremely precious .
in effect , we are having a first reading before the proposals have been tabled .
some people in this house think that it fatally undermines parliament 's powers .
we are here to use our powers in the interests of european businesses and our constituents , and we shall not be forgiven if we fail to do so .
i appeal to all colleagues and particularly to the socialist group , to re-examine their views on this matter and look at what safeguards they would like to see in primary legislation to enable the delegation of powers .
the report refers to a growing consensus that the present framework fails adequately to capture the changes in the financial sector over the past ten years .
given that the phrase " growing consensus " - i am quoting from the report - in fact implies that there is no consensus on the subject as yet , we are justified in asking whether the institution promoting this reform , the chosen instrument and the chosen time are really appropriate .
one cannot help feeling that parliament , following the commission , feels obliged to align its activities with those of the basel committee , which , let me remind you , has no legitimate right to impose its views on the member states .
yet this report does have some merits , ladies and gentlemen , including the fact that it represents real progress in relation both to the first basel text and to the commission text .
our rapporteur , mrs villiers , who has been responsible for some excellent work , mentioned in her report the possibility of applying a fast track method .
let me briefly address the problem that in basel we are creating a framework for systems that are not necessarily compatible , systems in the usa and systems in europe , and here we must ensure that we do not ride roughshod over a particular area .
we know that the large banks are no longer interested in them .
during the procedure we must not think about whether we are surrendering rights , but about the degree of detail to which we regulate matters in europe in future , or where we should simply establish the framework and pass on certain instruments of adjustment to other institutions , such as the commission , but also basel .
today we in the european parliament must also send out the signal that we will not allow our established systems to be put at risk and that the large banks will also face problems if a legal framework is created in europe .
we also think that this report makes an important and satisfactory contribution to the whole process .
the reaction to the two consultation documents on this subject - that of the european commission and that of the basel committee on banking supervision - has been positive , and i should like to comment on the latter document .
it has no legislative power , but nor should it be forgotten that it is a matter of actual fact that the basel committee on banking supervision belongs to the group of the ten and that , even though it is not a legislative body , its standards apply in 130 countries and are used by a multiplicity of international organisations , including the world bank , the international monetary fund and , obviously , third countries .
the report coincides , to a large degree , with the ideas of the commission and the objectives we are trying to achieve .
the commission will continue to be especially vigilant in ensuring that the potentially most vulnerable sectors are taken into account .
we all know that , on this point , mr lamfalussy has prepared a very clear and enormously useful report which may help us produce legislation that is more effective , more efficient and , so to speak , better adjusted to the changes occurring in the market .
it is at present far too soon to speak of the commission ' s adopting a formal position on these subjects , but perhaps we can define a number of outline features of the possible approach .
a first level would include the basic principles , or codes principals , to be included in certain norms such as directives .
in the second place , there would be a level of technical detail covering that area which will be most subject to change if we want the regulations to reflect best practice .
we would be talking about a second level of decision-making .
turning to the points in the specific amendments which are to be made and which have been included in the report , i should like to make two comments .
with regard to amendment no 12 on the supervisory review system , i should like to point out that it is already within the powers of the supervisors to request or establish levels in excess of the minimum capital requirements .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m .
mr president , we are here today to debate the first of two reports on modifying the statute and general conditions governing the performance of the ombudsman ' s duties .
we therefore now need to adapt its statute to the financial regulation and propose that two articles be deleted - article 12 and article 16 of parliament ' s 1994 decision - which , as we all know , approved the general conditions of the performance of the european ombudsman ' s duties .
given that we will soon have to apply ourselves in this parliament to fundamental changes to the statute of the european ombudsman , which are still being discussed in the committee on constitutional affairs , to whose report i have been given access and which addresses the issue of extending the ombudsman ' s powers of investigation , we will wait until then for a complete , qualitative revision of the text of that statute .
mr president , i hope the rapporteur will not mind if i say that this is a relatively obscure report that we are taking fairly late on a thursday evening and that it goes right to the very heart of democracy in the european union : how do we protect the rights of european citizens ?
the ombudsman has a distinctive role and position in the framework of the european institution , but it is a role that requires autonomy .
that is why the ombudsman needs to be financially autonomous and as independent as possible so that we in this parliament cannot be accused of calling the tune .
the public need to have the utmost confidence that the ombudsman is completely impartial in his investigations .
it is perhaps also worth pointing out to european citizens that the ombudsman 's office - not him personally - costs something like eur 3.9 million a year or less than one cent per person in the european union .
as a result of this , the petitions committee , in the gonzalez alvarez report , said that the procedure to amend the ombudsman 's statute should be seen in the light of article 195 of the european communities treaty .
let us never forget that the role of the ombudsman is one that is enshrined in the european treaties .
the epp / ed group supports the view of the committee on constitutional affairs that the ombudsman 's competences should be enlarged and the sooner the better , especially in the fields of the ombudsman 's investigative powers laid down in article 3 of the 1994 decision .
we in my group appreciate the ombudsman 's support for the petitions committee , the committee that is responsible for relations between the ombudsman and parliament .
in this respect the epp / ed group encourages the ombudsman to continue his work through his special reports which we are always ready to consider in a positive spirit of cooperation with the ombudsman .
the epp / ed group supports this report therefore and hopes that this , along with the bosch report on the ombudsman 's report on recruitment procedures , is a sign of the european parliament 's continued commitment to increasing transparency and accountability .
we do not need extra work and we do not want to see examples of maladministration , but it is important that we remind european citizens that the office of ombudsman is there to help them if problems of maladministration arise .
mr president , the commission can be very brief on this matter .
the commission has already signalled its agreement on this matter in the past , both for technical budgetary reasons and for reasons to do with the independence of the ombudsman ' s duties .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i believe that the report we are debating this evening fits very well into today 's agenda , because around midday today we already adopted an important report on access to documents , and i believe what we are discussing now and will have to decide tomorrow is very closely related to that .
in relation to the ombudsman , a matter we have just been discussing , there were several complaints in the past about the lack of transparency in regard to recruitment , and that is a very crucial point , because we entirely agree with the ombudsman 's view that recruitment procedures are many young eu citizens ' first contact with the european institutions .
mr president , speaking both as a member of the committee on legal affairs and on behalf of my own group , i , too , very much welcome this .
we particularly welcome the reforms and changes which we believe ought to be and , commission-willing , will be introduced as a result of this report .
after all , access to documentation is a fundamental civil right and no documentation is more important to a candidate than documentation in relation to examinations .
not only the commission but the other institutions and bodies of the community ought to comply with the ombudsman 's recommendations , even in the case of recruitment procedures which have already been initiated .
it is regrettable that the commission agreed to apply the ombudsman 's recommendation only for recruitment procedures launched after june 2000 .
we would also like to draw attention to the point about temporary and auxiliary posts in the institutions , offices and bodies of the community and the union .
our group was very satisfied with the vote in the committee on petitions .
we studied them and we can accept three of them , which are in line with the way we voted in committee .
we think the others are difficult to implement , or even rather out of context .
the ombudsman looks after the public interest in the direction of the administration .
in addition , the report urges all the institutions and bodies of the european communities to allow applicants to have access to their corrected examination papers in future recruitment competitions , if they so request .
having good staff and officials is obviously in itself essential for well-functioning institutions and this can only be assured if the recruitment procedure is impartial and as objective as possible .
allowing the candidates to see their marked tests is a simple means of increasing transparency and confidence in the procedure for the recruitment of european civil servants .
the ombudsman 's initiative and recommendations can therefore be warmly welcomed , as can the decision by the commission to follow them .
i therefore thank the ombudsman for his report , which i fully support .
however , between the fine words and noble principles expressed by the european ombudsman and practice , things are not always so cut and dried .
i congratulate the commission on accepting the four recommendations made in the special report on the ombudsman .
the fact that applicants for community institution jobs should see their marked scripts shows that institutions are confident in the way they run their application and selection procedures .
mr president , i too should like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs .
the president of the commission himself has repeatedly assured us that transparency in the administration of european affairs is an absolute priority .
allow me to finish by saying that the commission has a obligation to comply with the recommendations of the european ombudsman and to design a full system of objective examinations for two reasons : first , because it is legally obliged to do so under article 255 of the treaty , as revised by the treaty of amsterdam introducing the principle of transparency .
and the something new in this case is that it must apply best practices and avoid anything which experience tells us will damage its credibility within the member states .
for example , candidates are already allowed to take the examination questions away with them , the general evaluation criteria can be made known to those candidates who request them , the list of passes can be published in the official journal and the composition of the selection board may be published in the official journal ( in the case of general public entrance examinations ) or on the commission ' s web site ( in the case of internal or restricted examinations ) .
the commission endeavours to be as objective as possible , and i should like to make two comments on a couple of questions which have arisen in the debate .
the commission ' s commitment regarding this matter is absolute and we hope that , as soon as these measures have been implemented , they will be applied generally .
finally , the commission can obviously make a commitment on its own behalf .
with regard to other institutions , it is they themselves who will decide whether the procedures proposed in this report or in the requests by the ombudsman are adopted .
that was a very satisfactory finish to a very satisfactory debate .
mr president , this is not a question - clearly the matter does not fall within commissioner solbes ' remit - but i take note of the statement that the examination scripts will be available as of july 2002 .
obviously , i was talking about july 2000 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 7.12 p.m. )
i proposed that we vote on the villiers report in brussels in november , because there are a number of rather sensitive amendments that i should not like to see voted in by random majorities .
i therefore agree that there should be a higher weighting coefficient - 10 % for example - but it must be totally fixed in all cases and all circumstances .
i am especially grateful to commissioner vitorino who has shown his vigorous commitment to a european police college , something which also finds expression in the fact that the portuguese government , which thinks along similar lines to himself , has thankfully seized this initiative .
however , we want this only to be a first step and we want an actual police college to be set up within no more than two or three years .
this police cooperation is crucial if we are to achieve the very important objective of affording european citizens a high degree of security within the european area of freedom , security and justice .
the intention of the portuguese presidency in presenting this initiative , following the tampere conclusions and in order to meet the deadlines laid down in the ' scoreboard ' , was to initiate the preliminary stage of the european police college by creating a network of the national institutes already existent in each member state in order to improve the training of senior police officers .
in all these areas , the police college can play an important role by promoting more effective practices and up-to-date methods , either in the form of a network coordinating national training establishments , or as an actual college with a permanent seat .
the enlargement of the european union , which will extend the space in which citizens are free to move , should be accompanied by supplementary measures ensuring safety and peaceful co-existence among the member states .
social conditions in most member states of the european union are now such that there is indeed a great need for cross-border cooperation between the various police forces .
mr president , if there is one thing i have learnt about constituency problems since i was elected to the house , it is how very variable throughout europe is the interpretation of articles 5 and 6 of the european convention on human rights - the right to brief detention before trial and the right to a speedy trial , the right to be released pending trial if the trial cannot proceed speedily .
these rights are very differently interpreted in different parts of the union .
i come from a country in which the maximum period of detention allowed by law is 110 days .
we can therefore safely say that a lightweight and currently practically non-existent structure such as the european police college will give rise to yet another bureaucratic structure , almost as if it were in the genetic code of the european union to entwine policies in red tape .
however , mr posselt 's work has resulted in provision at last being made for police training to include human rights and the right of defence , and the proposal is also important and appropriate at the moment to create a virtual police college which would take advantage of the potential offered by the internet .
it is not specified in either the council decision or the rapporteur 's report .
it will probably come as an even greater shock for them to learn that the european parliament wants the european police college to be responsible for training police forces and border control forces - that is to say customs and excise - in order to prepare them for the use of community law and the implementation of common and community measures .
clear as day we can see the ambition of the eu naked in tooth and claw ; a common approach - the european approach - to fighting crime and internal security ; one people , one law and one police force .
mr president , listening to the last speaker , i have not heard mention of the common market in almost 20 years in this house .
their capital in those days was moscow or budapest .
the work we do on a friday morning in parliament has the same legitimacy as the work we do on a monday or any other day .
indeed it was commented that on wednesday evening when the commissioner spoke about bse , somebody drew attention to the fact that there were only 17 people in the house .
i come from a state where the police developed out of a chaotic situation - a civil war .
i will welcome a levelling-out of standards in some member states in the european union .
i hope that this academy will help us to have a better understanding of the whole system .
this week , the contribution made by president de gaulle to establishing peace in algeria was held up by mr posselt as a model for the role which mr kostunica will have to play in order to solve the kosovo problem .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the creation of the european police college is , in the commission ' s opinion , a dossier of major importance for the european union , both in terms of cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs and with the prospect of enlargement of the union .
i therefore feel that the efforts made by us all will have made it possible to effectively create the european police college just one year after the decision taken by the tampere european council .
with regard to the future of the college , the commission is - as i am sure you will be aware - of the opinion that conclusion no 47 of the tampere european council laid down , extremely clearly , that the network-style functioning of the college , which is already causing it also to be called a ' virtual ' academy , will be only the first stage .
we are talking about the need to exchange experience and information , to exchange best practices in crime fighting in order to make respect for citizens ' rights and the fight against transnational crime more effective .
the debate is closed .
the establishment of the european police college is one more step towards the creation of a police state at a european level , which the ruling class believes is necessary to protect its interests from the demands of ordinary people .
the establishment of the european police college is in keeping with the decision taken by the feira council to create a mobile ' expeditionary ' force of repression with police , judicial and correctional powers , which the european union will use for ' non-military crisis management ' anywhere on the planet .
it is especially important to stress that the european police college , which is expected to start its operations on 1 january 2001 , is not simply a network of the national training institutes of the member states of the european union ; it also involves the applicant countries of central and eastern europe .
we also think the method adopted for this initiative is perfectly appropriate : we are not going to set up a new european structure liable to be rather divorced from reality at the national level , but rather to create a college in the form of a network made up of the existing national training institutes for senior police officers .
this is a good illustration of what we are starting to call ' network europe ' , a europe which puts nations in contact with each other directly , without the need to maintain pointless superstructures .
in our opinion , the most effective way of working , for the european police college , as for most of the other areas of cooperation , especially in the police , justice and security sector , is to establish networks between the existing national services . - ( sv ) i have voted against the report on the provisional establishment of the european police college .
this role was first developed by president plumb , following a request from many women in france whose children had been abducted and with whom they were no longer in contact .
since then , many other people have also sought the help of the european parliament when their children have been abducted .
the precise scope of it would cover parents , living in a different member state from where the guardianship judgment was made , who were looking for visiting rights .
there are constitutional concerns in some member states , notably germany and austria .
undoubtedly , many of our courts are very slow and ponderous , and there is great difficulty in getting them to act quickly on these issues .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i wish to begin by congratulating mrs banotti on both her excellent report and the efforts she has made over recent years in the cause of defending and guaranteeing the fundamental rights of children , specifically in her capacity as european parliament mediator on issues concerning the international abduction of children , a task in which she has invested her widely-acknowledged qualities and sensitivity .
it is part of the gradual development of judicial cooperation in civil matters and its communitisation .
it is a proposal for a regulation that seeks to make exercising rights of access and accommodation for the children of separated parents easier , in an attempt to prevent children becoming a kind of hostage in the dispute between parents who are resident in different member states .
my mother lived through such a separation and abduction 85 years ago , and she still talks about it .
if we also start applying something similar to other situations , we are undertaking in the future to have centralised unitary legislation such as does not even exist between the 50 states of the united states .
what i therefore wish to tell parliament is that , in the action programme on the mutual recognition of judgments in civil matters - which we hope will be adopted by the end of this year - the commission proposes that the first and utmost priority should be given to extending the scope of the brussels ii regulation and , consequently , of this regulation on rights of access , covering both the children of married couples and those of unmarried couples without discrimination .
it is worth saying , however , that the issue of civil judicial cooperation was communitised by the treaty of amsterdam .
the point about the one day clearly refers to people who often travel right across the world to see a child .
the debate is closed .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the commission ' s position on the relationship between the legal system , community policies and sport is laid out in the report on safeguarding existing sporting structures and maintaining the social function of sport within the community , that the commission presented at the helsinki european council in december 1999 .
the commission feels that the treaty establishing the european community that is currently in force enables account to be taken of the specific nature of sport in general and of its social function in particular .
other equally important sports organisations , however , such as the national olympic committees , for example , or national sports federations , have specifically insisted on the need to develop community actions for the promotion of sport .
this is why the commission did not include in its opinion any request for new rules on community competence , for example in the field of sport .
in order to further highlight the specific nature of sport and even to provide guidance for the community institutions on how to deal with sports-related issues , at the behest of the french presidency , a draft declaration for the nice european council is now being prepared which would complement the conclusions of the santa maria da feira european council on this subject .
as this parliament stressed in the mennea report on the report for the helsinki council , this would be carried out in full respect of the community ' s legislative framework .
as a famous english footballer , jackie charlton , said , it is not just a matter of life and death ; it is more important than that .
i certainly agree with the commission that there is no need to have a mention of sport in the treaty .
although , unfortunately , sport still does not have a legal basis in the european union , it has many special features that must be taken into account in the work of the union .
sport affects all the citizens of europe , in one way or another .
the european parliament has often expressed its concern with regard to drugs and called for more effective action to counter their use .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , what is happening in sport in the european union , in particular in professional sport and , more specifically , in football , is the consequence of having a law without a policy , of having a law that no one really had any choice about .
we are not seeking to meddle with fundamental rules or basic principles of community law in the treaties .
what we want is to be able to construct in a politically free and carefully considered way a balance which is appropriate to the specific needs of a sector which , although it is of primarily cultural value and enormous social relevance , also has other , economic , facets .
i shall end with a reminder of one of the conclusions of the resolution that we voted for in september following the mennea report : " the european parliament invites the intergovernmental conference to include an explicit reference to sport in article 151 of the treaty , so that the european union will , in its actions , acknowledge the cultural , economic and social phenomenon that sport represents " .
in fact , the eu directive governing this field , which was adopted unanimously in 1993 , laid down the conditions under which member states could , if they wanted , apply user charges or motorway tolls .
accordingly , six member states , belgium , denmark , germany , luxembourg , the netherlands and sweden introduced a common user charge system often called the euro-vignette while austria continued to apply its own user charge system and france , italy , spain , portugal and greece maintained their already existing motorway toll system .
this means that by 1995 12 out of the 15 member states had adjusted their levy systems with more emphasis on direct charging and less on taxes .
however , the whole package of measures announced also includes other elements such as a reduction in the fuel taxes , similar to measures recently announced by other member states .
the commission will then have to investigate , as it does in the case of all other member states , whether or not such measures are likely to distort intra-community competition .
depending on the outcome of this analysis , the commission will decide on the next course of action in fulfilling its role of assisting member states in taking the measures which are right for them and while respecting the rights of others .
mr president , i thank the commissioner for his explanation and for the fact that he came in to talk on this subject this morning .
what he said is news to me because my understanding was that the proposal was a special tax on all foreign vehicles , which we assumed was all non-uk vehicles using the roads of the united kingdom .
it may be advantageous at this moment just to say what has actually been proposed by the uk government and also what they are proposing , bearing in mind the crisis in britain and indeed throughout the whole of the european union with regard to the road haulage industry .
in conclusion , we are being premature in the european parliament in holding this debate , but i welcome the fact and the statement from commissioner vitorino which clearly indicates that the uk government has the right to introduce a euro-vignette system provided it keeps within the rules and regulations already in place .
i believe that is what the uk government wishes .
not only is a lot of time lost and high costs incurred through congestion , but it is quite a major problem for the environment in particular , and i therefore believe that , if the british government is actually investing money in solving the problems , then we all have something to gain , particularly all european citizens .
i am sure the british government will be in discussion with the commission in applying this vignette .
that is a point we should be making quite clearly .
we are more or less the only oil producers in the european union and yet we face the highest petrol prices , the highest diesel prices of any country in europe - gbp 1.20 a litre for diesel is paid in the united kingdom .
i drove in austria in the summer and paid the austrian vignette which seemed to me to be perfectly fair and reasonable and a much more agreeable price than one pays on french motorways .
at long last the british government has come up with a reasonable solution .
the local haulier in denmark or in the uk will get his full money 's worth 365 days a year , but the foreign haulier from another member state entering that country - maybe for one or two days or ten days or even 100 days - will not .
the best thing the british could do with this extra money is to improve our system in the hope of improving uk-irish friendship and relations .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday , 17 november 2000 .
ladies and gentlemen , like all of you , i am sure , i would have liked to have been able to open this part-session without having to announce further news of the latest victims of eta terrorism .
unfortunately , our democracies have been sent a new message of violence in the form of the particularly heinous murder of ernest lluch .
known as a key player in the spanish transition to democracy and for his contribution to catalonia ' s autonomous status , loved for his warmth , respected for his qualities as a politician and a great academic , ernest lluch was targeted by his murderers purely because of his dedication to the rule of law .
madam president , i must protest against this decision , on the grounds that procedural motions can be made for very important , very serious reasons .
this has been noted , mr dell ' alba .
on many occasions parliament has expressed itself in favour of a firm stand on the kyoto commitments .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , thank you for inviting me to share with you my impressions of the sixth conference of the parties , the so-called cop6 , to the united nations framework convention on climate change , that took place the past two weeks in the hague .
after intensive negotiations , both at technical and ministerial level , on the basis of draft decisions with approximately 500 square brackets , it was not possible to reach a comprehensive agreement on key political issues .
the european union negotiating position concentrated on safeguarding the environmental integrity of the kyoto protocol in the areas of land-use change and forestry , the " sinks " issue , the relation between the kyoto mechanism and domestic action , known as " supplementarity " , and compliance .
with good technical progress on the rules for the kyoto mechanisms and the development of a compliance system , final negotiations focused mainly on trade-offs between " supplementarity " and " sinks " .
however , there was not enough time to fully evaluate last minute compromise proposals on the use of " sinks " in terms of their impact on the different countries inside and outside the european union .
in order not to let the mandate of the buenos aires plan of action , that ran until the so-called cop6 conference , expire without any concrete result or follow-up , parties have decided to suspend cop6 and resume the conference in may 2001 .
for example , a set of proposals responding to developing countries ' needs and concerns was drawn up , including new funding and new institutions , but also a more focused approach on climate change within the global environment facility - the so-called gef .
also progress was made at the technical level on other issues , such as policies and measures to reduce emissions , capacity building , technology transfer , emissions trading , joint implementation and compliance .
another positive outcome of cop6 is that it helped to obtain a better understanding of other parties ' positions .
mr pronk was a very dedicated president of cop6 .
consequently , there was not enough time to analyse all the impacts of the different proposals relating to sinks that were made in the final hours .
we all knew that , in order to get an agreement with the united states and its allies of the " umbrella group " , the european union would have to make concessions .
as a priority , evaluation and preparation of further discussions should take place within the european union .
the eu must review its positions on the key issues and , where appropriate , make new proposals .
the commission is fully committed to developing a strong common eu line together with the incoming presidency .
an absolute pre-condition for an agreement on " sinks " at the next session is to have one common set of data , instead of every party doing its own calculation .
however , the internal preparation for ratification through the european climate change programme and the development of a european union emissions trading scheme will continue .
thank you for your attention and i am willing to answer any questions you might have .
the european parliament delegation to the talks was equally disappointed at the outcome , although we were not surprised .
the agreement would have placed a ceiling on the use of forest sinks by the united states , japan and canada , a ceiling which europe had been asking for , and strengthen the scientific requirements applied to the domestic sinks .
the question is whether we actually need a global convention before we can start to reduce our own emissions .
madam president , these negotiations were always going to be hard but commission officials believed that a deal would be done at the end of the day because political leaders across the world simply had too much to lose by returning home empty-handed .
it is a matter of huge disappointment that agreement was not reached and i very much regret that the end of the convention was marred by a dispute between britain ' s deputy prime minister and the french presidency over the compromise proposals he put forward .
the disagreement within europe is all the more regrettable because my overriding impression of the convention was of a european union negotiating as a closely-knit team , from a position which crossed party lines and united member states behind shared principles , a shared outlook and a shared sense of anger at the refusal of the americans to face up to their responsibilities as the world ' s largest emitters of greenhouse gases .
therefore , we must give greater priority to bringing in and gaining the support of nations elsewhere , to getting emissions trading up and running , and to taking real action to reduce global warming gases in this union .
money talks in american politics more than it does within our union .
the developing countries are to receive usd 1 billion after 2005 .
if the clean development mechanism starts working then they will receive between usd 5 billion and usd 25 billion in addition , annually .
president pronk acquitted himself well as far as the developing countries are concerned but his compromise was lacking in terms of environmental issues .
of course forests eat up co2 but once they are fully grown this no longer happens .
the solution must be found in energy efficiency and renewable sources of energy .
fortunately , 14 of the 15 ministers for the environment were of the same mind on this issue .
every citizen of the world has an equal right to co2-emission , i.e .
only if equality is incorporated will the developing countries start to participate in the fight against climate change after 2012 .
parliament has recently pronounced itself in favour of a number of steps that will take us in the right direction .
the european position during the climate conference , which ended - and evidently broke down - in the hague last saturday , was characterised by two sharply conflicting views .
one view is that we should stick closely to the 1997 agreements in order to reduce emissions by a generous 5 % , as compared with 1990 .
my group favours the first view .
it is important for europe to stick with a position taken up previously , even though it means that the united states will not be in a position to subscribe to an agreement of this kind for the period of the bush administration .
finally , the third world is only in the very early stages of industrialisation .
the emission of greenhouse gases will increase dramatically as a result .
that is why we need to keep these realities in mind in the follow-up to the climate conference .
madam president , i am extremely disappointed , like the vast majority of the house and the previous speakers , that the un world climate change summit was not a success in the hague .
it is regrettable that the participants did not reach an agreement on how best to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the future .
the kyoto accord of three years ago set out a timetable for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions .
it has already been said that the next meeting to discuss the issue of the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will take place in bonn , which will coincide with a publication by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change .
the european union must take a lead in this matter .
the environment committee and parliament have set a good example in the past as to how we should collectively address the issue of greenhouse gas reductions in the future .
although i do not have a good word to say about the us stance , one thing i do know is that the united states were prepared to achieve an acceptable compromise at the end of the conference .
the intransigence of the european union , led by the french minister for the environment , mrs voynet , stood in the way of a potential agreement .
in reality , the chances of reaching agreement in the future are slimmer , which means that an effective strategy for tackling the climate problem is an even more remote prospect .
in any case , an agreement can only be accepted and acceptable if there is a balance between north and south , between developing countries and industrialised countries .
the conference in the hague is to be resumed , as you have informed us , commissioner , next spring in bonn .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , let us not beat about the bush , the climate conference in the hague was a flop , which is disappointing because it is becoming increasingly apparent that climate change is happening much faster than anticipated .
the european union is going to have to carefully assess its own role .
it is not enough to blame the united states or to complain about the lack of flexibility shown by others .
the climate conference will resume in the spring .
i am bound to regret the fact , however , that the will of some ministers of the 15 member states has been directed more towards racing to attend press conferences than creating a genuine spirit of unity that will guarantee a global policy on climate change .
by may , by bonn , the european union must take action on two fronts : firstly through diplomacy , since the scenario that the united states will ratify the agreement is the least likely , and so diplomatic action must be developed with the other members of the umbrella group .
only if we have this credibility will the european union be able to lead the debate and the action at cop vi " b " in bonn .
madam president , thank you for your support and a special thanks to the european parliamentary delegation who were there in the hague .
however , climate change has already happened , it is already there .
maybe we should not be too worried about taking a little more time , a few months more , to decide on the rules and the framework , the legal framework , that must be put in place in order to operate the huge economic market that will be created .
we had too much left on the table for these negotiations and we will have to try to sort that out .
sometimes these negotiations are extremely chaotic , and i think that you can always go home and look back saying that we made this mistake or that mistake .
however , for the environment ministers present at the hague , and you know we have also set the tone here , the main objectives were to defend the credibility and integrity of the kyoto protocol .
the americans presented us with a proposal that would have reduced their commitment by between 70 and 90 per cent .
we were very constructive and we negotiated until the last minute of these talks in the hague .
we now know what kind of questions we will have on the table for this last part .
of course the follow up of the next cop6 or the continuation of cop6 will be to ratify an agreement inside the union .
the debate is closed .
preparation of nice european council and trade policy the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the nice european council from 7 to 9 december 2000 , including trade policy .
the president of the republic himself is coming here on 12 december to present a report on the presidency .
the major issue facing the members of the european council at nice will clearly be the reform of the institutions and the finalisation of what we all hope will become the treaty of nice .
there was also a beneficial clarification of the issues around the commission and the weighting of votes , allowing each member state to get a better idea of the objectives and difficulties of the others .
pierre moscovici reported to you on that on 24 october .
we have been building on that foundation over the last few weeks taking all the points of view into account with a view to arriving at a compromise , but keeping our sights set on an ambitious agreement at nice .
some countries still have major problems regarding the coordination of social security systems , tax , asylum , visa and immigration matters and trade negotiations on services - a very important issue .
but we will approach nice with a positive attitude , determined to make progress as many aspects of these sensitive issues as possible .
the role of the european parliament is naturally one of the important elements in the debate .
the fifteen are now close to agreement on making enhanced cooperation more flexible .
you discussed this on 24 october , and on several points the intergovernmental conference is reaching solutions close to those advocated by parliament .
the minimum number of participating member states should be set at eight while the clause allowing appeal to the european council , which currently constitutes a real right of veto , would be replaced by a power of retrieval .
parliament has made proposals on its role in triggering enhanced cooperation in the community sphere .
as regards the cfsp , several member states have emphasised its specific nature which , in their view , warrants special mechanisms , and they have been stressing that particularly in the last few days .
on the commission , two options were on the table at biarritz : capping the number of commissioners , or a commission made up of one representative from each member state .
this at least provides a serious avenue to be explored in nice , one that still remains to be defined and clarified but on which a clear majority of the delegations is ready to work .
progress has also been made on increasing the powers of the president of the commission and a possible increase in the number of vice-presidents .
finally on the weighting of votes in the council , there are also two main options on the table since the biarritz declaration : either a double majority or a simple reweighting .
let me add that we have not yet reached agreement on the distribution of seats in the european parliament .
to end this brief report on the negotiations , we have also made good progress on strengthening article 7 of the treaty which should in future provide for an early warning system in the event of a threatened violation of the european union ' s fundamental principles .
on the other hand , the idea of a reference to the charter of fundamental rights in article 6 , championed by the european parliament in its recommendation of 14 november , and placed on the table at the igc by the french presidency , was vigorously rejected by several member states .
all the delegations agree on giving the european parliament the possibility of seeking the court ' s opinion on a draft international agreement .
on the other hand , even though the presidency has also proposed extending to parliament the right of appeal to the court under article 230 , several delegations are against that at this stage .
finding an agreement which will enable the union to operate after the new accessions currently in active preparation is vital for the future of the european union and indeed the enlarged union .
the nice european council will also be tackling other major issues on which the french presidency has worked with a great deal of determination .
the discussion on a possible legal status for this charter will be pursued after nice and could form part of a broader , longer term debate on the future of the european union .
the european council will also discuss the state of progress of the accession negotiations and hence of the enlargement .
you yourselves debated this on 3 october .
at the general affairs council of 20 november we had a very good debate based on the excellent documents the commission had forwarded to the council .
a meeting of that conference has just taken place at ministerial level , at sochaux .
at the nice meeting there will be an exchange of views with all the candidate countries on the reform of the european union ' s institutions , and more generally on the outlook for the future of europe .
the lisbon european council approved guidelines designed to promote an innovative and competitive european economy .
so a report will be passed to the european council which will finalise the definition of performance indicators in spheres such as employment , innovation , economic reform and social cohesion .
as you know , last monday the ecofin council reached a decisive agreement on fiscal harmonisation .
in this sphere , following on from lisbon , the french presidency made the adoption of the social agenda one of its priorities .
the presidency invited all the institutions concerned - this parliament , but equally the economic and social committee , the committee of the regions , european social partners and the intergovernmental organisations - to contribute to drawing up this agenda .
the social agenda draws together the objectives and initiatives which need to be taken over the next five to ten years , particularly in the areas of labour law , social protection , social mobility , lifelong training , and the fight against discrimination and exclusion .
a report on the measures the presidency has taken in this area will be presented to the european council in nice .
the french presidency set itself the objective of improving the definition of the precautionary principle .
the biarritz european council took note of the commission report on the necessary additional measures .
i know that the european parliament is working on the first package .
you know , moreover , the importance which member states attach to adopting texts quickly .
this entire area must be given fresh political impetus in nice with a view to the final transport council on 20 and 21 december , for it is true that the french presidency does not come to an end in nice .
the french presidency wished to support the updating of the commission ' s 1996 communication on the services of general economic interest with some consideration of the place of public services or , to use the accepted term , general interest services in europe .
the presidency wanted to restate the basic principles governing the community ' s approach in this area , including primarily the freedom of member states to define and organise their own public services while respecting the rules of the treaty .
these principles will be highlighted in a statement which the presidency wishes to annex to the nice conclusions .
finally , we have prepared a statement for the european council on the specific economic , social and cultural characteristics of sport and its social functions in europe .
the primary purpose of a new treaty is to ensure that the union will continue to be able to function after enlargement .
i am now pleased to say that the negotiators are close to an agreement on the provisions governing , for example , closer cooperation , the court of justice , the democratic values of article 7 and deepening the involvement of european political parties in the democratic life of our member states and institutions .
i sense that we are approaching a reasonable compromise on the composition of the commission and the weighting of votes in the council .
whatever the number of commissioners , the important thing is to give the president of the commission all the powers needed to run the college effectively .
similarly , any change in the weighting of votes in the council must also guarantee that decisions cannot be taken against the will of the majority of member states .
if the union is to be effective , the conference must make substantial progress on this , and that also means extending the codecision procedure . ( applause ) member states naturally find it politically difficult to give up the right of veto in sensitive areas such as social policy , asylum and immigration , common trade policy , cohesion and taxation , even when this relates only to the technical changes necessary to make the single market work .
indeed , mathematics and 50 years of experience show beyond a doubt that even modest enlargements make it far more difficult to reach unanimous agreements .
in a union of 27 or more member states , the unanimity requirement will , quite simply , paralyse progress in every area where it is maintained .
mark my words : if the member states ' veto on justice and home affairs is maintained , we shall be severely delayed in implementing the programme agreed at tampere or even unable to do so .
under the present rules , certain aspects of negotiations on services are covered by the unanimity requirement , precisely because our treaties were originally commercial treaties governing goods and not services .
the problem currently plaguing our trade policy is that , because negotiations cover a wide range of sectors , including services , any progress whatsoever in goods as well as service sectors is almost inevitably held up by unanimity voting .
the simple and natural solution - and this has , in fact , been a majority view during the conference - would be to change the present rules so that qualified majority voting applies to all aspects of such negotiations , including services .
at the next plenary session in strasbourg , i shall tell this house whether , in my view , the enlarged union we are all determined to achieve will be able to act effectively or not .
when all is said and done , that is the criterion by which nice must be judged . ( applause ) important decisions will be taken in nice to ensure that the european union is able to assume its own responsibilities in the world .
the prevention of conflict and crisis management are traditional areas of community activity .
it is our task to fulfil our commitments against the backdrop of new ambitious objectives which the union has set itself .
i would stress that this in no way detracts from the fact that , for the member states concerned , nato remains the basis of the collective defence of its members and will continue to play an important role in crisis management .
the commission is convinced that only an integrated approach to crises can guarantee the consistency and efficiency necessary for the union to be able to play its full role on the international scene .
crisis management requires the community to show an increased capacity to react , but this must be translated into action in a way that fully respects our institutional framework as established by the treaties .
you spoke of codecision by the european parliament .
the majority of our group take the view that the charter should not only be ceremonially proclaimed but should also become european law .
i would like the council to comment on the fact that the cooperation procedure is being replaced by consultation in relation to economic policy ( article 99 ( 5 ) ) , and yet unanimity is being maintained in article 13 ( anti-discrimination ) .
with regard to enhanced cooperation , we believe that in the first pillar there should be assent from parliament and , in commercial policy , i repeat our concern and our request for a strengthening , not a weakening , of community competence .
with regard to the composition and functioning of the three institutions , my group agrees with the proposal of the joint resolution .
i believe that this would even go back on what was agreed in biarritz .
i think this is completely unacceptable and , of course , it is a good argument in favour of ending the closed door method for the intergovernmental conferences , which has had its day , so that we can hold discussions in public and find out who could say such scandalous things . ( applause ) i also hope that the president will not mind if i repeat that we believe it is important that we can advocate the charter with dignity , regardless of what we do after nice .
two things were said at helsinki to candidate states in europe .
we in this parliament will be required at the end of that process to give or not to give our assent .
my appeal to you , mr president-in-office , is to present us in this parliament a document worthy of this parliament 's assent and a document worthy of the scale of the historic challenge we face in europe .
to do less than that is to fail europe and this house , when it reviews nice , cannot allow europe to fail .
it should not become an issue which traduces the union into a false contest between the interests of the large and the small , when the common european interest should be the central goal .
we support enhanced cooperation but insist that it must be open-ended and open to all and not exclusive and must be based and rooted in a way which respects the ' acquis communautaire ' .
if we proclaim it as something with meaning , it must find roots , and we still commend to you to root it in article 6 .
i believe that we can succeed but , mr president-in-office , we need your presidency to mobilise the council for europe by animating the nice council to achieve something which is genuinely historic .
however , it is important at this stage to discuss what is to happen post-nice .
our group strongly supports constitutionalising the european union treaties , and this also means that the reform of the treaties should be open , with civil society being able to participate in this process .
the nice summit cannot succeed unless the system of qualified majority voting is extended .
madam president , mr president of the council , mr president of the commission , i do not believe that the governments of the 15 member states have covered themselves in glory .
the summit will only be a success if it opts for truly comprehensive reform of the institutions and sends a clear signal that this union is capable of enlargement .
if democracy is to be strengthened , this naturally implies that majority voting must be accompanied by a right of codecision for the european parliament .
but success in nice also means that there must be more than mere proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights .
i find it quite intolerable that several governments have simply brushed aside the question of including a reference to the charter in article 6 of the treaty .
let me say clearly , just as other members before me have done , that in my view a reference to the charter in the treaty is just as indispensable as a broad public debate with the people of the union .
the real success or failure of nice will be measured by whether governments finally begin to take people 's concerns and needs seriously .
the european union must attach foremost political priority to the struggle against unemployment , poverty and social exclusion .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , a week away from the nice european council , we are forced to note that it is still not very clear what institutional measures are going to be adopted .
matters are particularly vague regarding the , to my mind , key issue of the potential extension of majority voting within the council , particular on two truly vital issues .
as much as we think international cooperation is essential , we find it unacceptable to use majority voting to force the hand of one or more member states on such issues of sovereignty .
there is another area of uncertainty involving the extension of the community procedures of article 133 to the negotiation of international agreements on services , intellectual property and investments .
let us not start again tomorrow with a new multilateral agreement on investment or new talks on agriculture post seattle .
over qualified majority voting and weighting , there will , in all probability , be vetos from all sides which will paralyse the demands of parliament and the public for a move towards democratisation of our system , towards making majority voting the general rule .
i therefore appeal to president prodi , who has rightly promised that he will tell us in strasbourg whether or not the commission will be able act effectively , whether or not the union will be able to act effectively after the nice summit .
mr prodi , present your objections to the summit , assume the responsibility , not of establishing a role for us as the post-nice panel of judges , but of playing right to the very last the card of defending first and foremost the european institutions , the commission and parliament in particular .
mr president , the draft nice treaty is more like a constitution for a federal state than an agreement for an association of states .
the powers to be given to the eu by the treaty of nice treaty go beyond those exercised at federal level in many federal states .
decisions on foreign and security policy are also to be adopted on the basis of majority voting .
with enhanced cooperation , the right of veto over treaty changes is also destroyed - not formally , but in practice - because a qualified majority will in future be able to ignore resistance from , for example , denmark , sweden and great britain or other places in which the undemocratic idea might arise of asking the electorate what it thinks .
the federalists can achieve their desire for more integration , and the governments in sweden , great britain and denmark can ease their countries into the new arrangements once the decisions , binding in practice , have been taken .
nice will transfer so much power from the electorate that it ought to be treated as a genuine constitutional change and only come into force once it has been approved in referendums in those countries in which referendums are possible .
mr president , the very title of this item on our agenda indicates the importance of article 133 in the debate on the extension of qualified majority voting .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr prodi , what matters most as far as the ppe-de group is concerned , is for the igc to reach a successful conclusion .
but according to our heads of government , it is also a question of demonstrating that there is no adequate solution to the major issues confronting us in the european union .
mr president , europe needs leadership , clarity , choices and decisiveness .
in view of the extent to which public confidence has been undermined with regard to the euro , people need to see that we are taking steps forward .
it is extremely sad that a situation has developed where large and small countries have come to take opposite sides .
the commission is , and remains , the driving force , and if the commission does not emerge from nice in a stronger position then it will be a black day for europe .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , parliament is required to give its opinion on essential matters .
we understand that not all the elements are on the table yet , but i trust that wisdom will carry the day at the nice summit .
for us members of the european parliament , the essential thing is primarily to make our voice heard where it might be useful .
as practically everyone who has spoken before me here has said , we want a reference to the charter in article 6.2 .
the second point i should like to stress is , obviously , the scope of qualified majority .
in that respect , there are various proposals on the table .
regarding trade policy , the commission has drawn up a proposal which must be carefully examined .
we are in favour of developing democratic responsibility in this area .
however , while we feel that this proposal needs to be examined carefully , it must also enable all parties to conserve the elements that make up their identity , particularly , no doubt , europe ' s cultural identity .
as you know , mr president-in-office of the council , we shall also examine qualified majority voting according to the yardstick of extending the scope of codecision .
in that respect , let me draw your attention to one specific point : the extension of codecision to the common agricultural policy .
if we trust to democracy , then it is not normal for 45 % of the eu budget to lie outside the scope of codecision .
yes , we do think that the nice council conclusions should include a request that the commission should draw up a framework directive in this field .
although the previous treaty made some progress in extending the formula , it also brought in the crazy formula of codecision plus unanimity for citizenship , social security , the rights of the self-employed and also cultural policy .
those who are in nice , out on the streets and in the dozens of forums and meetings scheduled will , in my opinion , at least be able to push for one result , namely that this will be the last igc , that the hazy reflection on the future of europe mr vedrine spoke of will translate into the launch at nice of a process which will establish the time frames and methods for drawing up and adopting a democratic european constitution .
mr president , i was involved in securing denmark ' s positive vote against the treaty of maastricht in 1992 .
a decision in nice to the effect that , for example , the applicant states must have the opportunity to participate in the next elections to the european parliament could help put the necessary pressure on the eu itself , so that enlargement can become a reality .
with regard to the conclusion of the igc , what must take place in nice is that an agreement must be reached which whilst correcting the deficit in the functioning of the european institutions , does not affect the existing balance between member states and , of course , between these states and the union .
the very fact that this issue is being debated now is in itself a clear sign of the failure of a policy to strengthen ties of mutual trust between the countries that comprise the union .
we are not the only ones to say this ; the french presidency has also said as much through its minister , mr moscovici , who acknowledged in a recent interview that the positions that have been adopted during the course of this year , particularly by president chirac and by the german minister for foreign affairs , joschka fischer , on the future organisation of the union have had the direct effect of heightening a climate of mistrust between small and large member states , which will inevitably be reflected in the results of the nice european council .
furthermore , the text of the proposal for a compromise resolution that we will be voting on reflects this unease to a certain extent , because its generic nature is clear to see .
it is also , however , a text in which its authors , even in the knowledge that they risk predictable political failure , reveal a vision that is focused above all on the powers and competences of the european parliament itself , and call for ever greater resources for parliamentary intervention without dedicating a single word to the crucial role of national parliaments .
we all know that the purpose of the nice summit is to finalise the work of a conference held between governments , who are accountable not to the european parliament but to their own national parliaments , which categorically demonstrates the sovereign nature of this process of revising the treaties .
mr president , mr president of the council , mr president of the commission , today at talks in the house , the president of latvia directed this reproachful remark at us : " we have been doing our homework ! " the question is whether the heads of state and government of the european union have been doing their homework too .
it is now the eve of its conclusion and we are aware of the progress which has been made , the partial results which have been achieved , but frankly , over almost ten months of a major intergovernmental conference , there has been no rapprochement of the positions , mr vedrine , and no definition of agreements , not to mention the fact that some of the topics indicated by parliament in its resolution of 13 april , ranging from the regulation of the economy to the institutional implications of the common defence policy , have not even been debated .
the experience of this year has convinced us that , looking beyond nice towards the future of europe , the process of constitutionalising the union must not be carried out by means of the - now dysfunctional - method of negotiations between government representatives .
the committee on constitutional affairs has made its contribution in the form of the resolution adopted on 21 november , which draws attention to certain points which are truly vitally important if the outcome of the conference is to be successful , and i will not go back over them .
if this contradiction is responsible for the negative outcome of the conference , it will mean a crisis for european integration .
mr president , even paris is divided over nice .
the french president and the first minister seem to be more obsessed with their own political future than with that of europe .
it seems as if some governments are already reconciling themselves to a new igc for enlargement .
the governments have lost sight of the urgent need for reforms because they are concentrating too much on their own position of power in the new set-up .
the weighting of votes in the council must do justice to the population numbers in the member states , which means that it is quite acceptable for there to be some corresponding differences between the larger and smaller countries .
the charter does not deserve to be left in a vacuum , with no clear status .
mr president i would like to remind the council and commission , and indeed the house , of a resolution that we carried on 26 october in relation to better law-making .
it bears also in a most important way on the question of the size of this parliament .
the nations and regions which the parties of the european free alliance represent are deeply concerned that if we apply together the maximum of 700 and the current idea of digressive proportionality , the people whom we are able to represent here at the present time will effectively cease to be represented in this house .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , for a youngster like me , nice certainly represents a great hope for a new europe , in political as well as institutional terms .
on the other hand , i would stress the considerable importance of providing our europe with strong institutions to fill the institutional void being created by progress on the economic front with the euro .
having said this , in my opinion , nice needs to be an historic council , for ourselves , our nations and the very future of europe .
mr president , in this parliament , which is a pluralist parliament , we have today achieved an unusual degree of unanimity amongst the members who have spoken .
i believe that all the speakers are very concerned about the results of the nice european council .
this is not a question - despite what my friend , elmar brok , has said - of two exams that we have to pass ; amsterdam and nice .
i remember the enlargement of 1995 , when the question of institutional issues was already being raised , and i remember a letter from chancellor kohl in which he told us to approve enlargement and then the rest would be resolved immediately .
this is what worries us and it worries all this afternoon ' s speakers .
and with this extension , when the decisions are legislative , will there always be codecision with parliament ?
the second one , mr president , is the charter of fundamental rights .
mr president-in-office of the council , that is the great political task of this european council .
the stated aim of this review is to design more efficient institutions which will be able to cope with an enlarged europe and , at the same time , to reduce the democratic deficit which certainly exists .
in the case of enhanced cooperation , no agreement has yet been reached on making provision for assent by the european parliament in order to start the procedure .
finally , not only has the charter of fundamental rights not yet been incorporated into the text of the treaty ; it has barely even been agreed to mention it in article 6 .
of course , i am delighted about the positive aspects , such as the issue of european political parties and article 7 , which have already been commented on .
the national parliaments are waiting for our opinion .
mr president , the debate on article 133 and commercial policy needs to be part of a much wider effort to bring transparency and democracy to the eu ' s decision-making on trade .
that means it is not only a question of the parliament having a much greater role in decision-making on trade .
but it also means restructuring the committee 133 itself : making it far more accountable ; ensuring that its agenda and conclusions are accessible and that its composition is broad and inclusive .
mr president , the eu summit at nice will hopefully be a further positive step on the road to european integration .
the recent commission report on the progress of the countries from central and eastern europe who have made application for membership is encouraging i must say .
we must not forget that our ultimate goal is to create the economic and social environment to enable the eu to become a dominant player in world trade with the countries of central and eastern europe playing their full part and benefiting from a peaceful and stable european economy .
however enlargement of the european union must not dilute or dissipate the influence of smaller member states with key national interests which must be protected .
mr president , i am addressing the commission president and the president-in-office of the council in french in order to get my message across as clearly as possible .
we must instigate a major debate among the citizens of europe , getting them involved in our debates .
in conclusion , i urge you , mr president-in-office of the council and mr president of the commission to give some thought to the provisions which would have to be incorporated into the treaty of nice in order for us to have this major debate and to avoid the utterly kremlin-style approach of agreeing matters behind closed doors , in order to instigate debate with a view to a new european framework , whether or not it be constitutional , so that we may have direct contact with our electorate and may make a major success of the european union in the future .
mr president , i am speaking not just to the president-in-office of the council but also to all the governments of the member states when i say that if agreement is not reached in nice on these difficult issues those issues will not go away .
so a final major effort is necessary over the next two weeks .
this is no more so than on the issue of qualified majority voting .
the problem is if you put the lists of exceptions next to each other you will find there are very few areas of substance where it is agreed to switch to qualified majority voting .
of course some governments will be attacked in their member states by opposition parties , by euro-sceptics , saying , " you are giving up the national right of veto " .
so in a union of 27 member states for every veto you trade in , 26 other vetoes are being given up at the same time .
everyone can gain from a system of qualified majority voting .
if we are to have more qualified majority voting on legislation it must go hand in hand with codecision , not only for the new areas which will come to qualified majority voting but also for the existing areas that already come under qualified majority voting .
this is essential for democracy at union level .
to adopt european legislation you must pass two tests : acceptability to the elected governments meeting in the council , and acceptability to the directly-elected meps in the european parliament .
in more than three quarters of the cases we do not even need the conciliation committee ; the two readings each in council and parliament are enough to reach agreement .
finally , there is the question of the number of seats in the european parliament .
but a first transition will also have to be made for the parliament to be elected in 2004 because at least some new member states will come in before or during the parliament to be elected in 2004 which will last until 2009 .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen .
as far as voting in the council is concerned , i think that the double majority is the best system because it is more representative and more objective .
as far as extending qualified majority voting is concerned , we are agreed that , unless we make some sort of move in this direction , we shall encounter a great many problems .
as far as foreign policy is concerned , we now live in mr solana 's bright and beautiful world and let me tell you - if we leave the common foreign policy solely within the framework of intergovernmental cooperation , then we shall be making a big mistake .
the common foreign policy needs to be fully integrated into community procedure because only then shall we have the necessary safety valves .
finally , mr president-in-office of the council , i must , of course , mention the charter , which affects millions of european citizens .
mr president i wish to focus my speech on three basic points .
the president-in-office of the council addressed the issue of closer cooperation and said that we are on the way to reaching consensus on this matter .
the second issue concerns the overall agreement already considered here by my colleague and chairman of the socialist group , enrique baron crespo , which is , fortunately , part of the resolution that the european parliament will surely adopt tomorrow .
according to how one sees the matter , however , what is being prepared now is a change to this balance and an increase in the representation of the larger countries , both in the council and in parliament .
in other words , we are sending them the message that in europe we treat consumers better than we treat the citizens of the european union themselves .
we therefore encourage and urge the presidency once again to make every effort to ensure that there is at least one reference to the treaties in nice because this would be the best tribute we could pay to the work of the members of the european parliament , the commission and even the representatives of the governments involved in the convention on drafting the charter .
our public in the eu and the public in the candidate countries will not accept the prospect of nice leftovers , of a second igc in 2004 .
i hope that we are in a position to congratulate the french presidency for its success ; but if you fail , we shall be harsh in our condemnation .
mr president , on the face of it , the nice summit is all about making the necessary adaptations and dealing with the leftovers in the light of enlargement .
that is why qualified majority voting must always go hand in hand with parliament ' s right of codecision .
so we evidently make an enormous contribution in qualitative terms .
as mrs beres said , it is of course untenable to draw a distinction and give us codecision rights in consumer affairs on the one hand , but at the same time , only give us consultation rights in agricultural matters .
mr mendez de vigo has just made reference to the charter , and rightly so .
i venture to doubt whether consensus will be easier to achieve in the new extended family than it is now .
president prodi , it will not be easy for you , just as it will not be easy for the heads of state and government together with whom you will have to find a solution to the many issues under debate , including the vital enlargement , the reform of the institutions and the replacement of outdated mechanisms , and the proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights , which is the first real step towards the european constitution in which we believe .
with regard to freedoms , individual rights and scientific research , the peoples and their representatives who are present in this and the national parliaments must have the final say .
in short , we must all aim high , and , in order to do this , we must believe implicitly in what we are doing .
i think it was first mentioned in 1989 actually .
some member states were even against mentioning social affairs or new rights .
we proposed that during the discussions and several countries opposed it , threatening to withdraw their agreement to the very principle of the charter if we insisted on article 6 .
the presidency must be democratic .
i would also say that i do not think there is a problem between ' larger and ' smaller ' countries .
in the matter of the intergovernmental conference , the only issue where people said there was a disagreement between larger and smaller countries lay with the commission .
that is inaccurate too , because the proposals made were not proposals by the larger countries to penalise the smaller ones .
as regards what has been said on qualified majority voting , mr poettering will forgive me , but i thought it was a little bit facile to name just one country and act as if that country ' s shift in its position relating to its own problems was sufficient to bring about a large shift in the others .
in developing the idea that it would be advantageous in the future to have a commission that was not too large to be effective and retained its full capabilities , especially its power of initiative , we demonstrated that we too were ready to make that sacrifice .
the same applies to qualified majority voting issues .
if one country has an internal problem , that does not make another country ' s internal problem disappear .
we have done a great deal of work , but we have run up against the same old problem and i do not think a shift in a single country can start the ball rolling , because yet again we are faced with very tough national , political and democratic situations in twelve of the fifteen countries .
i am quite aware that it will not become a constitution overnight , but i also know full well that it will be a constant reference point for us from nice onwards with regard to the principles according to which the european institutions are to proceed and the principles which the european peoples are to follow to unite in preparation for future cooperation .
to sum up , mr vedrine , you mentioned that the situation here appears to be too tense , and you also spoke of a certain pessimism .
well then , i would like to reply to your appeal with an appeal of my own .
i am well aware that 15 countries will make the decisions at nice and that the role of the presidency is not to be a one-man-band , but i have also learned through experience what the role of the presidency and the responsibility of the french presidency are .
in recent weeks , we have with great confidence and responsibility presented the french presidency with a series of major decisions to be taken , aware of the role that france has consistently played in advancing the progress of the european institutions .
although , as you rightly said , we cannot place all the responsibility upon france , we do know that france must demonstrate its great leadership abilities as a driving force by example .
but we also expect something else from france .
however , in my opinion , the presidency 's role is of fundamental importance in this case as well , because i am quite aware that , if france is able to interpret the general interest with regard to the decisions on article 133 , none of the other countries will be able to resist the change .
we are all awaiting this step forward for it is not a step forward just for france but for the whole of europe . ( applause ) this minister , is what we expect from france , inspired precisely by the great confidence which we have in your country and in the leadership ability that we know france can display at difficult times in europe 's progress . ( applause ) thank you very much mr president of the commission .
to conclude these statements , i have received nine motions for resolutions from eight groups , in accordance with rule 37 , paragraph 2 of the rules of procedure ..
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow .
i wish to refer to the disgraceful demonstration that took place in the foreign affairs committee of this parliament yesterday morning when the turkish minister of foreign affairs was involved in discussions with us .
to that end , we must put the requisite organisational and security structure in place , which also means our guests being directly protected by people who are trained for that purpose , because we naturally cannot employ foreign security staff to escort our guests .
please take this very seriously , so that we can continue to receive guests in future and so that we can treat them as guests ought to be treated .
i would say to mr wurtz that it is a part of the process of trying to open up the prospect of european integration for turkey that we show them the sanctity and power of parliamentary democracy .
mr president , i should like to draw both your and the house 's attention to the incident which mr wurtz referred to , i.e .
the fact that the turkish government refused a visa to the cypriot member of parliament and parliamentary representative of akel , andreas christou , who was due to attend a meeting of turkish , greek and cypriot parties in istanbul .
it goes without saying that we in this house of european democracy must guarantee the safety of all our guests and anyone who spends time within these four walls .
mr president , i am just taking the floor to inform you that a delegation of workers from telecom italia is present in parliament today .
telecom italia is a leading company in the telecommunications sector .
pino arlacchi , under secretary-general of the united nations and executive director of the un office for drug control and crime prevention , condemned the italian minister for health 's speech , for the minister was clearly ignorant of the good news on prevention recorded in the united states , spain and even bolivia and peru , and mr arlacchi called upon the italian government ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) at the beginning of today 's sitting , madame president paid homage to the memory of ernest lluch .
in 1966 , ernest lluch , his brother and myself , with more than 60 other members of the teaching staff were expelled by the francoist regime from the university of barcelona .
from that time on , in spite of our different political opinions , i recognised the sincere commitment of ernest lluch in the struggle for dialogue and understanding , even facing the authoritarian position of the present government .
mr president , last year the council took an excellent initiative to create the first european union forum on human rights .
this excellent initiative was repeated this year and the second forum will be held on 12 and 13 december in paris , which is to say at the same time as the european parliament ' s part-session in strasbourg .
i would therefore urge that , in response , our official representatives are not sent to this forum , and that , next year , a date should be agreed when members of parliament may attend , which means the dates of the strasbourg sittings should be avoided when scheduling this important meeting .
mr gorostiaga , i have profound contempt for the terrorists of eta , but the people who use this democratic parliament in a cowardly fashion to justify the murders they commit deserve the same contempt .
mr gorostiaga , you are a disgrace to this parliament .
i hope that this report , which we commissioners were given last year , will in future include subsidiarity , better regulation and assessment of alternatives , while respecting the legislative authority of the council and parliament .
finally , i want to take into account the criticism which we have seen in parliament 's report .
i hope that we can continue this debate so that it is not only a routine matter on thursday afternoon but part of the central debate on community legislation as a whole .
the debate is closed .
a survey in the 11 countries of the euro area has shown that consumers still have to pay costs of an average of eur 17.10 to transfer eur 100 between member states .
if , in 15 months ' time , the same coins and notes are introduced in 11 member states , it will be more expensive to get hold of that single currency outside the country in which you live .
karamanou report ( a5-0287 / 2000 ) mr president , we took a great deal of care over preparing the karamanou report in the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs .
the european union applies to its common fisheries policy the fundamental principle of responsible fishing and the conservation of resources , which are essential conditions for everyone , for the moroccans , for the europeans and for the non-europeans who fish in morocco .
from this rostrum and with the weight of representing european democracy on our shoulders , i call for good sense and wisdom from both parties , who will meet in brussels on 30 october at the highest level - the european fisheries commissioner and the moroccan minister for fisheries if , as i hope , his attendance in brussels is confirmed , and the technical delegations , with the moroccan secretary of state for foreign affairs of morocco , if this too is confirmed , with the director-general for fisheries of the european union as chair - so that serious dialogue may take place and solutions be found .
it is now appropriate for us to initiate a new phase in our relations with morocco , in a spirit which is best exemplified by our practical proposals concerning the aid that can be given to encourage growth and development in the moroccan fishing industry , in line with the priorities set by the moroccan government in its five-year plan .
all the efforts we have achieved over the last few months whenever the parties concerned have had meetings at a technical or political level , have essentially focused on outlining a new partnership in the fishing industry , a partnership which must be well-balanced and to our mutual advantage .
consequently , we have reached a consensus to work together with a view to achieving a responsible partnership , and morocco will give its views at a meeting to be held , as you have already pointed out , in brussels , on 30 october , that is , on monday .
a moroccan delegation will present its position in brussels on 30 october .
i , however , believe that if this really were the case , this difficult matter of the fisheries agreement with morocco would have been addressed from the start with a global approach , involving all the commissioners .
in any case , the aid will end on 31 december , the date planned for the conversion of the fleet .
eleven months after the expiry of the previous agreement , nobody is assuring us that we will reach an agreement before 31 december .
mr busquin , i have sometimes , as a member of this parliament , had the feeling that the european commission , the commissioner , and in particular the director-general for fisheries were acting as if they were ashamed of the sector and even of those member states that they were called upon to represent in this negotiation .
and it fits in even less with a european union that feels able to negotiate the accession of 13 new member states .
the european union wants to continue its association with morocco in the field of fisheries because we are convinced that a cooperation to the advantage of both parties is possible , for the same reasons that make the european union the largest investor in morocco .
the first , the second and the third .
mr president , commissioner , the fisheries agreements play a very important role in the fisheries sector .
by means of the fisheries agreements , the european union is able to engage in fishing operations and exchange fishing rights with third countries .
the negotiations concerning a new agreement between the eu and morocco have made slow progress .
commissioner fischler has stated that this monologue cannot continue .
the fishermen in particular cannot be blamed for not understanding the situation and for being very disappointed about the fact that the negotiations concerning the morocco agreement have dragged on .
but while we have plenty of vessels that cannot find fish in european waters , or even in areas where they have traditionally fished , at the same time we have some businessmen , or even business conglomerates , in northern european countries that are building enormous new vessels , which will be forced to depend on fishing far away from europe .
we will support the resolution , but we have to make it clear that nobody has any given right to exploit the resources of another country if it does not so wish .
mr president , i think it would be constructive if a new fisheries agreement with morocco could be concluded , but i nonetheless think that there are major weaknesses in the text of the resolution which is now being proposed .
this especially applies to paragraphs 3 and 4 , in which it is assumed as a matter of course that the eu should be allowed - in fact , be almost entitled - to fish in moroccan waters .
el aaiun is not , however , situated in morocco but in western sahara , which is occupied by morocco .
furthermore , when we complain day after day about the fact that negotiations seem to be falling by the wayside , both the existing agreements and new ones , and the lack of interest that both the commission and sections of the council seem to be displaying - and here we have the recent cases of angola , cape verde and kiribati - , it is quite simply suicidal to block a path which is a solid base for the fisheries activities of the community fleet , and could be even more so in the future .
we are therefore defending the responsibility that lies with us in the bilateral agreements and in private agreements , where the activity of the fleet is regulated - and will be even more so in future - by regional fisheries organisations such as iccat , nafo and camelar .
i believe that this fact should be noted and made clear and doubts raised as to whether the commission is capable of negotiating international agreements , especially having heard president prodi request an international remit for the commission .
however , after a wasted year , and at a time when we are trying to put budgetary appropriations that were earmarked for the agreement under other headings , i must also express my deep suspicion about the commission 's commitment to protecting the legitimate interests of the shipowners and fishermen affected , and state my scepticism about the real will of the union and of many member states , amongst them spain , to negotiate the agreement in the " general field of political and economic relations between morocco and the european union " as we propose in the resolution .
the proposed resolution will not lead to the restoration of fishing rights , but , at best , to spain and portugal having a more solid claim to compensation subsidies .
mr president , commissioner , the european union has had fishing agreements with morocco since 1992 .
under this agreement , around 500 boats from the european union , 50 of which are portuguese , have had access to moroccan waters at an annual cost of around eur 125 million .
firstly , it must be emphasised that the fishing agreement with morocco is by far the european union ' s most important agreement , representing more than 30 % of all catches by the community fleet in third-country waters .
i say in the european union and not just in two of its constituent parts , as some members have insinuated : european solidarity must be more than empty words or just a one-dimensional idea that simply evaporates when the problems happen to be concentrated chiefly in portugal and spain ...
unfortunately , the commission was not able to reach new agreements in the negotiations with morocco held before the expiry of the fisheries agreement on 30 november 1999 .
the union must prepare a programme for conversion of activities carried out by the operators affected , in order to give them a stable future .
mr president , commissioner , i am not going to repeat what has been said this morning in this plenary sitting and has been being said for almost a year .
spain has done a magnificent job in turning round the difficult neighbourly relations which europe and north africa and spain and morocco have suffered during the course of history .
it reminded me of scenes from our history and from my childhood , when konrad adenauer and charles de gaulle drove through german towns in exactly the same way , demonstrating that the problems between the two neighbours had been overcome and that france and germany would together form the core of european integration .
the spanish and portuguese fishermen deserve our undivided support .
mr president , the tender fruit negotiation will be opened up in three days ' time , and we will then know if it is ripe or green , or sufficiently ripe for us all to feel calm and for both the parties concerned , the european union and morocco , to start sounding out methods of cooperation and agreements in a manner that is flexible , commissioner , but also serious and rigorous , so that the community fishing fleet may recommence its activities in those waters .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would simply like to add that there are clearly agreements between the two parties to establish a timetable for negotiations and that morocco has spent months preparing its five-year plan .
he had gained a favourable impression from his meeting , which augurs well for the negotiations , due to start on 30 october , being conducted in a constructive spirit .
i think we must therefore wait for the results of the meetings of 30 october .
it is therefore too soon to broach this issue .
i am very familiar with the problems of spanish and portuguese fishermen , problems which are shared by fishermen in sicily .
let us name names , to coin a phrase : it is about the case of the union citizens allue and coonan versus the university of venice , it is about the case of the union citizen allue again versus the university of venice and it is about the case of the union citizen david petri versus the university of verona .
the amendments made to the law in its wake in 1995 are still unable to guarantee full protection of the rights of lettori lecturing in universities .
apart from the fact that this was not discussed in the committee on legal affairs , we would be maintaining here that the legal basis in italian law corresponds to the principles of the treaty and yet the court of justice said exactly the opposite !
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the case of non-italian foreign language assistants in italian universities is well known in the commission and in most european institutions .
more particularly , following the decisions of the court of justice of 1989 and 1993 - the allue case - which ruled that the limitations on the duration of employment contracts of foreign-language assistants imposed by the italian government were discriminatory , the commission took a number of steps .
it initiated an infringement procedure , which was dropped in 1995 following an italian law bringing the legislation into line with the court ruling .
in july 1999 , the commission brought this infringement procedure before the court of justice .
it is now waiting for the court to rule on this new infringement and on this new procedure , which was initiated by the commission .
it is intolerable for european citizens to have some sort of privileged access in a state other than their own and not to have to undergo the same tests and bear the same burdens as the citizens of that country , in the case in the point the citizens of italy .
mr president , i rise to give my voice to this injustice that we have heard about , an injustice , as we have also heard , that has been going on now for 12 years .
but i have to say we are looking at this commission : the president of this commission is fully aware of this case , is fully aware of the facts , and yet nothing has been done to resolve it .
in the last eleven years we have seen three european court of justice judgments in favour of the lettori .
on 13 september this year the european ombudsman sustained a complaint by them and a number of individual cases have been upheld in the italian courts .
if in this parliament we genuinely believe in a citizen 's europe , we must strive to secure one .
nobody disputes that the italian republic is fully within its entitlement , in 1995 or at any other time , to say for the future we will not hire people as lettori , we will bring in people for a new kind of appointment .
by coincidence , this very afternoon i am off to italy , a country that i love so much , to lecture about the benefits of the mediterranean diet , which has been exported so successfully to the rest of the world , and therefore it saddens me all the more to make this speech criticising its government and its rules in this area .
after the italian universities had responded by saying that the judgment did not specifically require them to offer open-ended contracts , a second judgment of the court in 1993 spelt out clearly that the length of the contracts could not be fixed .
in the instance of my motion on the royal family this was even described by the liberal rapporteur in this house on human rights as an exotic motion of no interest .
these issues are vital to uphold european freedom and in my view there is no national issue of vital interest to the security of the italian state which is being threatened by either the royal family or the italian foreign lecturers .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the debate on this question , which goes beyond italy , is a highly interesting and most important debate .
italy then adopted a new text in 1996 eliminating the discriminatory elements that existed before .
but there is a second aspect to the problem : the question of acquired rights .
in this context , it can no longer be a question of discrimination .
the debate is closed .
motion for a resolution ( b5-0824 / 2000 ) on the rights of language teachers : maintenance of the rule of law after the vote on recital h : mr president , i hereby suggest that we insert the word " unconvincingly " between " government " and " claims " in this amendment .
as there are no objections to this oral amendment , we shall vote on it . ( parliament adopted the motion for a resolution ) explanations of vote mr president , i will not excuse the italian government or the italian courts for condemning many pensioners to a low pension , but in this case i voted against the report because i consider the judgments of the court of justice to be erroneous .
mr president , i have a great deal of sympathy for language teachers in italy who do not have italian nationality .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 27 october 2000 .
my thoughts are also with the many people who were injured in the attack in madrid on 30 october .
they were happily on their way to ski on the slopes in austria when 155 of them died in appalling circumstances in the disaster on the kaprun funicular .
i should like to thank you - i do not know whether anyone else will be speaking about this - on behalf of many members of this house and , in any case , on behalf of my group and my delegation .
we are united in shock and grief for the 150 people who died and we share in the pain of their relatives .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting the minutes of the sitting of friday 27 october have been distributed .
madam president , i should like to state - also on behalf of my group - that referring this report back to the committee responsible in accordance with rule 144 of the rules of procedure would actually be the correct course of action for parliament to adopt , because i prepared a report and only found out afterwards that the council had plans in this field .
we have done our job and , in my opinion , our work should be concluded irrespective of the council ' s position .
relating to wednesday : with regard to the statement by the commission on bse and the ban on animal meal in all animal feedingstuffs , the group of the party of european socialists requests that the council also make a statement on this matter .
mrs napoletano , we could of course proceed in that way .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , our group regards this incident as being so important that we do not consider it appropriate for it to be dealt with in the topical and urgent debate .
we think that we should address this matter in the form of an oral question to the council and the commission , and would like to draft this carefully to ensure that both the council and the commission do discuss it .
madam president , my group has listened carefully to this proposal .
therefore , under the treaties and under the euratom treaty this issue falls within the competence of the commission ; it affects or may affect many citizens who are not just spanish , because in this area and its surroundings - and there is no emergency plan in place - there are hundreds of thousands of european citizens from the fifteen countries of the union as well as many people from outside , because this is the costa del sol .
i should therefore like to ask for a formal commitment from the ppe that we should vote together in favour of having this matter included as a question to the commission and the council at the next part-session .
mr baron crespo , i would like to make sure i understand you correctly .
i have the impression that you agree with their rationale , mr baron crespo , if i understand you correctly .
madam president , my group would be in favour of accepting the inclusion of this question on december ' s agenda .
mr poettering , is that what you intended ?
he stayed on to vote on thursday morning and then his foot was put in plaster .
madam president , i would like to inform parliament of a serious initiative undertaken last week in italy by the regional government of the lazio region .
hence amendments nos 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 .
the republic of portugal presented a draft protocol amending article 2 of the convention on the establishment of a european police office , europol .
this portuguese initiative aims to extend europol ' s competences in order to establish a general framework of competence for europol in relation to money laundering .
on the question of democratic accountability , i note that at the moment article 39 of the europol convention requires that the european parliament simply be consulted on an annual report .
this is quite unacceptable and on several recent occasions , parliament has requested , in particular in the nassauer and cederschiold reports , modifications to the europol convention to ensure true democratic accountability of this agency .
these requests are covered in amendments nos 2 and 4 of mrs karamanou ' s report .
in the more specific area of combating money laundering , we could cite the council directive of 10 june 1991 , as recently amended , for which our fellow mep , mr lehne , acted as rapporteur .
by virtue of article 2 of the draft convention , the member states can no longer decline to conduct searches or seize items by invoking the reservations set out in article 5 of the convention of 1959 .
article 6 , for its part , provides for the making of supplementary requests for mutual assistance , and article 7 states that fiscal exceptions can no longer constitute a reason for refusing mutual assistance .
the non-invocability of banking and commercial secrecy in response to requests for mutual assistance is set down in article 3 .
furthermore , article 8 of the draft convention limits the reasons which member states may invoke for refusing to provide assistance to " essential interests " .
article 9 requires the member states to set up integrated multidisciplinary teams at national level in order to enhance the efficiency of searches and promote information exchanges .
the sole aim of these proposals is to achieve mutual assistance that is as effective as possible and meets the challenges posed by organised crime , particularly in the field of money laundering .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , my task is a relatively easy one : if i am supposed to comment on behalf of the legal affairs committee on the portuguese presidency ' s proposal regarding involving europol in the fight against money laundering , then i can only say that it is a good proposal .
as i have said , that is why i support the proposals on the table today but , at the same time , i would take this opportunity to give you advance notice that there will be a real battle with the council over the common position on the second directive to combat money laundering .
political europe is progressing slowly but , unfortunately , 15 internal borders continue to exist wherever judges and magistrates , legal proceedings and court decisions are concerned .
the portuguese initiative concerning the europol convention is intended to spur the european parliament into choosing the right route to ensuring security , with this hingeing around a discretionary filing of records on citizens in all the areas affecting their private lives .
mr president , allow me to start by congratulating our rapporteur , mr marinho .
i welcome this debate and discussion .
however , as many speakers have said , there is not enough democratic control and accountability .
we want to see parliamentary involvement in the appointments of the director , and by a majority vote because , when we have enlargement to 28 member states , it will be very difficult to find everybody agreeing on the identity of the director .
it has to be by a majority vote - we propose two-thirds - and we also want parliamentary involvement in the dismissal of the director , if ever that becomes necessary , by a two-thirds vote as well .
already today there are about 120 different police forces in the european union , most of them , i may say , in my own member state , because in the united kingdom we have a police force in every single county and they only work up to their county borders .
one example is a person on a money laundering charge , held for 364 days in custody in portugal without any charge being presented .
well , here we have another good example : in combating money laundering we may put at stake something that , far from being a lawyer ' s privilege , is an essential element in this right to a fair trial , which in turn is an essential element in all our european development , culture and identity .
this report includes a recital on the geneva appeal , and the group of the european people ' s party will vote against it , not because we are against the geneva appeal , but simply because as parliament we must ensure the quality of legislation .
however , it is also necessary if we are to strengthen the attractiveness of the european union as a location for business ; moreover it is something which the public wants and we must respect their wishes because the people who live in the european union have a right to security .
the second measure , the second instrument , is harmonisation .
the european union and we , the european parliament , are seizing a new opportunity in the fight against organised crime , which preoccupies us to such an extent .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the development of the economy and the phenomenon of globalisation have been accompanied in recent years with an increase in international crime .
today we are discussing three reports that acknowledge the fact that money laundering lies at the root of organised crime and must therefore be eradicated , wherever it may take place .
i agree with the general thrust of the report , but i harbour some doubts as to the rapporteur ' s amendment claiming that this framework decision should also apply to less serious crimes .
the karamanou report seeks to extend europol ' s competences to cover the crime of money laundering by strengthening police cooperation and by providing europol with more effective instruments .
finally , the roure report seeks to remove a large number of judicial obstacles to mutual legal assistance and , at the same time , provides for the adoption of practical measures designed to strengthen this cooperation .
i would like to see the report ' s guideline with regard to the professional confidentiality of lawyers maintained , a guideline that has already received a favourable vote in this parliament - when the lehne report on money laundering was adopted .
we also acknowledge here that professional confidentiality is an essential factor in the administration of justice , since any breach of this law could entail a violation of our citizens ' civil liberties .
with regard to a compromise situation on this issue , there are two options : either the article in question refers to people who concentrate on certain activities and does not need to mention lawyers or any other professional category , or it refers to lawyers , creating a situation which in itself threatens professional confidentiality , however much the article specifies or defines the activities to which it refers .
for all of these reasons , mr president , i shall vote against the amendment to article 3 , even as a compromise wording for the legislative proposal .
this was also the subject of the joint justice and internal affairs / ecofin council meeting held on 17 october .
we are convinced that this framework decision will constitute a significant advance in enabling common sanctions to be established for all the countries in the european union .
this means that , with this framework decision , we will have two legal instruments establishing , not just common incriminations , but also common sanctions for two types of offences .
it is my view that , specifically where mr marinho suggests that common offences should be defined for those cases that are punished less severely or for other illegal acts provided for in article 6 of the european council convention on money laundering , we ought not to consider this approach straightaway , but base our concern on an assessment of the specific results that are obtained following the implementation of the joint action that was agreed on in december 1998 and which has not yet shown all that it can do .
by the same token , i wish to say that i am aware of the sensitiveness of the issue raised by various members about the conditions in which the confidentiality of the legal professions may constitute a justified refusal to cooperate in the fight against money laundering .
lastly , the commission is also pleased to note the support parliament has given to extending europol ' s competences to cover all forms of money laundering .
the karamanou report , on which i should also like to congratulate the rapporteur , proposes various amendments with regard to improving the democratic and judicial control of europol .
we feel that extending europol ' s competences should be carried out at the same time in all member states and not in a staggered way , which could lead to greater confusion .
the debate is closed .
the european union is making progress in the fight against serious crime .
that is why i have proposed to extend the legal base by adding article 29 of the treaty on european union .
overall the task is so great and so important that it cannot be overseen by the council alone .
let us continue to work together on this basis .
one example is her amendment no 9 , which moves that , in future , this initiative should be taken into account in the final decisions made on the eurojust unit .
there cannot be mutual recognition if there is no mutual trust between states on which to found it .
the clear allocation of fields of intervention to either judicial cooperation or police cooperation is not only needed to prevent any conflict of responsibilities , but is also fundamental in terms of guaranteeing observance of the democratic rules that form the bedrock of the rule of law .
the european parliament is the supranational community body that can determine this relationship , and i therefore propose that you support its validity by showing support for our rapporteur .
however , there have been difficulties in the whole area of police and judicial affairs , in particular because of fear or lack of trust with regard to the efficiency or the ability of individual police forces or individual judicial networks to deal with the volume of crime which is now being highlighted at a cross-border level .
mr president , over this part-session we are going to be called upon to express our opinions on a number of proposals regarding the creation of an area of security and justice .
this is a positive development , and it is therefore gratifying that there should be so much support for it in parliament .
the creation of eurojust is part of the european action for fighting organised crime which seeks to strengthen and guarantee the balanced development of police and judicial cooperation in the european union .
such would be the case , for example , with a criminal who commits a crime in one member state and then seeks refuge in another member state , as their crime has been a serious one .
and this is why i also see in this an important tool for ensuring judicial control of europol .
it is for this reason that the mutual relationships between eurojust , europol and olaf , in its role as a specialist body for combating fraud , and the existing european judicial network must be clearly defined .
the commission welcomes your report , mrs gebhardt .
i hope that parliament will adopt it .
we will have the opportunity to make our commitment to this provisional unit from 1 january 2001 , but the commission wants to sustain the debate on the form that the definitive eurojust unit will take .
the debate is closed .
the fair programme - fisheries , agriculture and agro-industrial research - was part of the fourth framework programme which ran from 1994 to 1998 .
one could argue that there was no need at all for parliament to deal with these outdated issues any more , because - so people say - the new commission is of course doing everything better in any case .
mr president , the fisheries committee report was rather brief , in any case .
we can expect a more constructive approach to research when it is done by people interested in research rather than by people who administer the policies , as in the case of agriculture .
the court of auditors ' report on the fair programme , from which the rapporteur ' s report arises , was only published in march this year even though the sector letters regarding the audit were first sent to the commission in december 1998 and february 1999 .
the court of auditors ' report found a number of significant problems with the management of the fair programme during 1994 to 1998 , including a lack of quantified objectives for the programme , making it difficult to fully measure the results , insufficient transparency in selection and evaluation procedures and the management of measures under the programme by three dgs .
one problem which remains is the eur 3.4 million still to be recovered , 92 % of which is accounted for by three files which have been under examination by the commission ' s legal services since july 1996 and august 1997 and whose due dates have expired .
i should just like to touch on a few points which are , in my opinion , decisive for the future work of monitoring research in general .
in paragraph 59 in the court of auditors ' report , this is illustrated relatively clearly .
commissioner , in the near future - and then also with the work of the new commission in mind - we will have to deal with further court of auditors ' reports or audit reports , such as the one on the joint research centre , which has turned out to be very critical , but also the special audit report on a very unusual contract with a consultancy firm .
you have underscored , and i would thank you for this , the spirit underlying this report , in your dialogue with the court of auditors and the commission ' s services and in the value you attached to it .
as you have emphasised , the fair programme is financed to the tune of 739 million euros .
it has given rise to over 3 300 proposals , more than 600 of which have received funding .
first of all , you should know that responsibility for managing agricultural research has been transferred to the agriculture dg and the research dg , following the reorganisation of the commission ' s services , which has resulted in a degree of uniformity in the agriculture dg ' s research procedures .
the same may not apply to research in the field of fisheries , but it has been the case with agriculture .
thirdly , the commission has adopted a common procedure for the evaluation of research proposals applicable to all the specific programmes , which can be consulted by the public in the common manual of evaluation procedures .
a common research database has been established .
this may seem a substantial sum , but it in fact only represents 0.3 % of total financing under the programme .
there are still some new applications to put into practice , and i would like to take this opportunity to outline the guidelines on community research that we would like to develop for the next framework programme , and which the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy has already examined , since i sent a policy paper to this parliamentary committee on 4 october , and it is to draw up a report .
the debate is closed .
in the modification of the agenda for thursday the subject of the british submarine in gibraltar was discussed and there were three speakers .
thank you , mr aparicio sanchez .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , after nine months ' work and a long struggle for consensus , we now have a draft european charter of fundamental rights .
today is the day we have to say ' yes ' or ' no ' to this charter and your rapporteurs recommend that plenary adopt and vote in favour of this charter of fundamental rights .
like many of you , i too regret that we are only allowed to say yes or no and are unable to send the council any other political message which might have been called for in this context in order to express the critical support of this house for the charter of fundamental rights , which is but a first step and is still a far cry from what parliament demanded of this political project in march of this year .
vague formulations and legal principles have given way to a clear system of fundamental rights which is binding on all the eu institutions and whenever european law is applied by the member states .
the value of this charter is that it has transformed rights vested in international law - vested but not binding , vested but not enforceable , vested but not guaranteed - into legal principles , nay into the constitutional principles of the union itself , setting up a dynamic process which will surely end one day with a legally binding charter of fundamental rights .
this charter is also the expression of a common set of basic values for all the candidate countries , for all the countries wishing to join the european union , and it is precisely in the area of social rights that it sends candidate countries a clear message that they must comply with these social standards .
i am certain that , with this charter of fundamental rights , we have laid the foundation stone for a future european constitution and constitutional process .
it is hard to see why the right to a fair wage has been left out and why we came up against insurmountable resistance when it came to the right to a decent minimum standard of living , the right to work and the right to housing .
madam president , whatever one felt about the mandate from the cologne european council , it was fairly surprising that the convention set up to draft the charter fully succeeded in achieving the mandate .
we refrained from superseding the treaties but maximised their impact by making the relationship between the citizen and the union for the first time clear and visible .
parliament played a strong part is formulating the charter .
i am particularly pleased to have this opportunity to address the house as part of an in-depth debate on this fine project to establish a charter of fundamental rights of the european union before parliament adopts its final position on this text .
admittedly , we have already exchanged views on this matter on two occasions , firstly on 3 october , following an oral question from the chairman of your committee on constitutional affairs , giorgio napolitano , and then on 24 october , when i came to parliament to present the results of the informal european council in biarritz on 13 and 14 october , where , indeed , the charter was one of the major items on the agenda .
for all that , however , today ' s debate , in my opinion , is a far cry from being needless repetition .
it is , on the contrary , particularly important as today parliament is to decide if , as is urged by the conclusions of the cologne council , it is going to proclaim this text , jointly with the council and the commission , at the european council meeting in nice , which is less than a month away now .
this is quite clearly a major political decision and a fresh opportunity to show the citizens of europe the whole scope of this initiative .
as you know , this position is in line with that adopted by the heads of state and government at the biarritz european council who unanimously and unreservedly approved the charter , and i can only urge you , therefore , on behalf of the council , to follow suit , perhaps giving you a few reasons to do so .
so , with a concern for openness which paid off in the end , in the course of its work the convention heard from the major european non-governmental organisations , both sides of industry in europe and , importantly , too , for the future , the candidate countries .
i know that the convention experiment already clearly appears to be one of the avenues - one , but not the only avenue - which europe could follow up in future in order to be more transparent and in touch with the opinions of european citizens .
members of the european parliament , particularly in our previous debate , have already expressed the wish to repeat the experiment .
moreover , at a time when we have just celebrated the 50th anniversary of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms , i think we can safely leave it to the judges of both institutions to fuel and continue the dialogue they already maintain , which is undoubtedly adequate guarantee against any risk of the two-speed europe of human rights that some people have mentioned .
it also enshrines many new rights which are not included in the convention and which are necessitated by developments in our societies , be it in terms of technological development , the emergence of new dependencies , or even the increasing complexity of our state and administrative systems .
it is particularly important that european citizens should know , for example , that the european union prohibits all human cloning for reproductive purposes or that it guarantees its citizens protection of their personal data .
let me , once again , congratulate president herzog in person , who , i believe , was behind this .
this is the solidarity which the charter guarantees through the right to free education , the right of workers to be informed and consulted , the right to collective bargaining and action , including the right to strike , even if it was not easy to get it included in the text , but also through the right to protection against unjustified dismissal , the right to social protection and the ban on children working .
i shall also stress article 23 , which is particularly clear in stipulating equality between men and women , and stating that this must be ensured in all areas , and that the principle of equality shall not prevent the adoption of measures providing for specific advantages in favour of the under-represented sex .
overall , i should say that this text unquestionably marks the greatest collective advance in terms of affirming social rights , both because of the importance of the rights enshrined and also because these rights are included for the first time in the same text as civic and political rights , thereby officially signposting the indivisible nature of all fundamental rights .
as to the method , let me remind you that the convention itself determined its own rules of procedure , without any external pressure , and that the rule of consensus seemed to be a particularly constructive option in a body as diverse as the convention .
i am sure the convention members that are to speak here will be able to confirm that .
the european trade union confederation , for its part , saw fit to complain about what it considers to be some omissions , such as the lack of any reference to the right to a minimum income , for example .
i should therefore like to make a few things clear once again .
the purpose of the charter was to collate the fundamental rights , not , at this stage , to form a social treaty - regrettable as that may be , and it may be something that will come in time - and the convention ' s mandate , as stipulated in the initial specification , did not entitle it to create completely new social rights out of nothing .
so , as you know , the presidency , on the basis of the conclusions of the lisbon council , has launched the initiative of a social agenda , intended to determine what action the european union will undertake in the next few years in order to take existing needs in to account , providing , in particular , a qualitative and quantitative improvement in employment , as well as greater social cohesion .
the heads of state and government were alive to this determination when they , if not adopted - that is still to come in nice - at least approved the text of the charter .
let me now , in conclusion , turn to the matter of the legal status of the charter , which has already been mentioned .
i can assure you , then , since it will not be possible to pose this question officially until after nice , that the french presidency fully intends to strive to include this perspective in the conclusions of the nice european council .
the fact remains that several individuals , members of the european parliament in particular , have suggested that explicit reference to the charter of fundamental rights be included in article 6 of the treaty on european union , which already refers to the european convention on human rights .
you know that , in a personal capacity , i have shown my openness to this proposal , and even my support for it , and i would reiterate that here .
i am convinced then , that this charter , by virtue of its clarity , its coherence and its content , will come to the fore as the benchmark text which the european union so badly needed .
i can only , therefore , on behalf of the council presidency , urge you once again to adopt the charter of fundamental rights with a view to its joint official proclamation in nice .
madam president , mr president-in-office , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , one of the main tasks of the directly-elected members of the european parliament , which represents the 370 million citizens of the european union , is to bring the unifying structure of europe closer to its people .
it is a huge feather in this institution 's cap - as is the fact that the groups stood side by side here - that we managed to secure 16 places for european parliament representatives at the fundamental rights convention .
ladies and gentlemen - and i mean everyone involved from the european parliament - made a decisive contribution ; as a result , the difficult instructions of the cologne european council were carried out successfully in a very short space of time and with the maximum possible attention .
but our special thanks must go to all the members of the convention , especially its chairman , former president of the federal republic of germany , roman herzog , to whom i should like at this point to wish a speedy recovery .
the draft before us is a balanced text which has already been applauded on all sides as an example of european consensus .
but europe will only progress and find its feet if we are all prepared to help bring about a good result .
the charter before us is , to my mind , a huge success and may , as i read in one of the european broadsheets on 26 september 2000 , become the calling card for europe .
in saying yes , we are instructing you , madam president , to proclaim the charter with the president of the european council and the president of the european commission at the eu summit in nice in a few weeks ' time .
if we , as the representatives and trustees of the citizens of the european union and of europe as a whole , wish to continue with the unification of our continent in an ambitious and committed manner , then the solemn proclamation cannot but be a first step along the way .
we in the european people 's party are jointly and firmly committed to including the charter of fundamental rights in the treaties as quickly as possible so that it can become a charter of direct and unassailable rights for the people of the european union .
mr president-in-office , you have taken a stand here and i hear what you are saying but let me say quite clearly on behalf of the european people 's party that we expect an ambitious result from nice - an ambitious result on the conditions for enlargement of the european union and an ambitious result for the charter , which is why i again call on the presidency of the council , on behalf of the members of the european people 's party , to ensure that a timetable is drawn up for transposing the charter of fundamental rights into the eu treaties .
i would like to remind you that the first time that the declaration of rights was discussed was at the congress of europe in the hague in 1948 , and that was the origin of the european convention on human rights of the council of europe .
i think that this needs to be highlighted today because the work that we have carried out is not the exclusive property of any political family , and this gesture does credit to the german presidency at the time and shows that we all need to move forward together in achieving fundamental values .
i think that we have also done this in the european parliament .
i have had the opportunity to express my admiration for the work carried out by inigo mendez de vigo , as chairman of the european parliament delegation .
i would also like to point out the crucial role played by my colleague mrs pervenche beres , when she led the delegation from the group of the party of european socialists .
our governments need to obtain tangible results in nice that they can offer to our citizens - institutional matters are important but , as the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner are well aware , they are difficult to sell to public opinion .
therefore , my group still thinks that it is absolutely essential to include a reference to the charter in article 6 ( 2 ) of the treaty .
as i believe that the president-in-office of the council is going to have a very busy weekend with the next meeting , i ask him to pass on a message to that meeting , so that the ministers of foreign affairs can pass it on to the heads of government .
it is as follows : if the european council in nice does not succeed in integrating the charter in this way , i am afraid that the european parliament will have difficulty approving the reform of the treaties .
i think that this is a positive message that the president-in-office of the council must give to his colleagues , because we still have time to include the charter in article 6 of the treaties .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the charter of fundamental rights , which is a key stage in the construction of europe , has given rise to much discussion .
everything conspired to strengthen this hope : the formation of the convention which established a new precedent in relation to the usual intergovernmental method , the public debates and the full set of texts available on an internet site that was accessible to everyone , as well as the fact that the opinion of civil society was consulted .
the right to employment was transformed into the right to work .
the right to health , social security , accommodation or a minimum income either do not feature , or are expressed only as a token of social cohesion .
discrimination between european and third country residents is ratified , as is the freedom of movement laid down in the treaty of amsterdam , or the right to live as a family , even though this is recognised in international law .
as regards fundamental rights , is it possible to accept a minimal common denominator at a time when europe wishes to set itself up as a role model for human rights ?
at the european summit in nice , in december , civil society resolved to mobilise in order to make itself heard and to forcefully express its desire for a charter offering the citizens of europe genuine guarantees .
we must support these actions and , rather than accepting a shaky text , we must call upon the convention to continue working after nice , involving new procedures and extensive public debate .
madam president , the charter of fundamental rights is a very important project for the future of european integration and it has my support .
secondly , because it plugs a gap in the protection of fundamental rights for people living in the union .
thirdly , because the charter also ensures that the current level of protection in the european human rights convention also applies in the union ; in fact , at some points , it goes even further than the european human rights convention .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i believe this charter is nothing more than the umpteenth example of the ability of the european union and its member states to proliferate empty texts and declarations of intent .
behind the vote on the charter , there is an ill-concealed agenda to create the first part of a constitution for what might be called a united states of europe .
the charter will not , of course , be written into the treaty until after a special constitutional conference in 2004 but , as it receives the solemn signature of the commission , the council and parliament , the european court of justice will already be acquiring a new source for its judgements , and the court of justice ' s representative has , of course , already given notice that it will draw inspiration from the charter .
the european court of justice will become our new supreme court and constitutional court , including in all issues relating to fundamental and human rights , and it will also become the chief interpreter of the european declaration of human rights .
madam president , first my heartfelt thanks to my friend and delegation leader mendez de vigo , who swapped places with me because i was due to head a conciliation for parliament .
the charter of fundamental rights is to become part of a future european constitutional treaty - a constitutional treaty , mind you , not a constitution - , in order to make it perfectly clear that the european union is not a state , it is not a nation state ; on the contrary , the european union goes its own separate way .
if we want europe to succeed , we need to define these concepts clearly ; if we want europe to succeed , we need a streamlined europe .
let us remember that this was originally an initiative from felipe gonzales , who proposed this fine idea .
some members of this house , including in my own political family , in the widest sense , will deplore the lack of reference to a minimum income , the right to accommodation or the lack of any explicit reference to the european social charter and the community charter of fundamental social rights in the general provisions of the text .
i would , however , urge them to read the text carefully .
the charter has actually been drawn up as if it were a text which might become binding .
to adopt an expression used by catherine lalumiere , i would say that we have to " put it into orbit " .
in order to do so , we all need to work hand in hand , on the basis of , i hope , the largest possible vote by this house .
this means that we must all get involved , members of the european parliament , members of the national parliaments , the council , of course , the national government , but also that same civil society which supported us in the process of drawing up the text .
my impression was that , even though several governments did not want it , there might still be a clear majority in favour of a reference in article 6 .
this is the mandate we have given our representatives .
as far as parliament is concerned , the phase we are about to enter is the outcome of a long struggle , one we undertook as early as 1975 and which has been continually highlighted through our resolutions , our spinelli draft treaties , our draft european constitutions .
that right does not exist in other international documents , and it is absent from the constitutions of many member states .
the charter also opens the way to minority rights because article 22 says that the european union must respect cultural , religious and linguistic diversity .
it has been so successful that , in his speech last friday , the finnish prime minister singled out the method as a way of coming up with ideas in anticipation of a future eu constitution .
we have a text here which states concisely what europe is about and states what rights we uphold as citizens of this great union .
as i said last night - i will say it again today - there are too many failings in that respect all across this union and sometimes , in our eagerness to develop judicial and police cooperation , we neglect the importance of ensuring that the innocent are not made the passive victims , the collateral damage of a war against crime .
let us not merely adopt these rights but make them real in the hearts and in the experience of our citizens and let us make them part of our law .
madam president , i do not underestimate the very important ambition of establishing a community of humanitarian values or the fact that civil , political and social rights have been placed on a par for the first time in this type of text .
there is a significant gap between our initial ambitions and what we have actually achieved .
it is , of course , possible to highlight this or that article , to welcome the genuine progress made in affirming a number of new rights relating to developments in our societies or in reaffirming crucial fundamental rights .
finally , precisely because the decision on the charter is a major political decision , i am with those members of the house that think it premature for parliament to declare its opinion today .
madam president , the draft european parliament resolution on the charter of fundamental rights has the same ambiguous foundation as the work of the body itself .
we will find out at a later date , after nice , no doubt .
there are two aspects in this process which i find fascinating .
tomorrow , however , the court of justice is going to be able to interpret these rights in detail and the court ' s case law is going to be applied in a standardised fashion throughout europe , depriving each national democracy of its right of autonomous decision .
madam president , this year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the european convention on human rights .
madam president , in answer to the question as to whether parliament should participate in the official promulgation of the charter i would simply say ' no ' .
apart from the substantive problems already raised today , merely having national parliamentarians on board is no substitute for an in-depth debate of constitutional questions by the national parliaments .
i would also advise the house not to misconstrue the instrument of the convention as a deus ex machina of the european union .
the charter of fundamental rights has always been a priority for this parliament , because it has wanted the principles and values that unite europeans to be reflected in a text .
this is particularly important at the present time , when we are beginning an ambitious process of enlargement .
the second reason is because the charter of fundamental rights is an essential factor in the move towards political union .
thirdly , mr president , and surely this is the most important reason , because a charter of fundamental rights is going to increase the feeling of belonging to the european union .
moreover , this charter reflects the opinion of parliament , as we set it out in our duff / voggenhuber resolution on 16 march .
the charter has been drawn up with the participation of a delegation from parliament and , as chairman of this delegation , i would like to thank all its members for their work , their commitment and their support over all these months .
it is true , as one of the speakers said , that we have to make an effort to inform people about the charter , an effort that can begin in this parliament .
when listening to the speeches from some members , one realises that this information is more necessary than ever .
mr president , allow me to say a few words on the effects of the charter .
i think that the reference to article 6 is logical and i think that the president-in-office of the council should take note of what mr baron crespo said .
the chairman of the group to which the majority of governments in the european union belong said quite clearly that parliament - or in any event , his group - will not approve the reform of the treaty of nice if no reference is made in article 6 .
if you read the report of the three wise men on the situation in austria , you will see that the charter is mentioned on three occasions .
this report was drawn up between 29 august and 6 september , when the charter had still not been drafted .
therefore , the charter , whether or not it is included in the treaties , whether or not it is in article 6 ( 2 ) , will bind the commission - and i would like to highlight the important work done by commissioner vitorino in drawing up the charter - will bind parliament and will bind the council , and it will have effects , mr president , whether some members of this house like it or not .
this is a charter that brings together rights that belong to no party and to every party .
it is a fusion of existing european values in a contemporary and imaginative way .
all sections of the house who are interested in the development of the european union should welcome that .
it is also , the commission points out , contemporary because it deals with issues such as bioethics , genetic engineering and data protection as well as access to information .
secondly , to say to the institutions : you have a duty , that is expressed in this charter , to deal with the citizens in a certain way .
i agree with colleagues who say the court is not going to ignore a charter that has been proclaimed solemnly by the three institutions : the commission , the council and parliament .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , a charter for europe and for the citizens of the european union is a fine thing .
i say this as a federalist , well aware that that the principle we shall have to refer to one day will be the principle of subsidiarity in order to attain greater freedom for the peoples of europe , including my own people , the people of the val d 'aosta , which has always encouraged federalism in italy and in europe .
in order to provide an international guarantee for the linguistic minorities , we have to make progress in terms of a genuine european constitution .
what prevented the achievement of both results is , minister , the same thing that will prevent the achievement of a satisfactory outcome in terms of democracy and effectiveness at nice : the obligation to reach unanimity on every single part of the text .
those who are more backward and more reactionary have , once again , triumphed over those who are fighting to see fundamental rights applied to all people and for an effective , legally binding response to new issues such as the risks of science , the rights of the new citizens , the right to a healthy environment etc .
this charter on social rights is a step backwards compared to the laws of many of the member states and , thanks precisely to the referrals to these laws , it will serve as a tool to alter them or limit their effectiveness .
i only hope that it will not be incorporated into the treaties and that movements calling for a fairer europe , in which there is a genuine increase in solidarity , will flourish in civil society , in the trade unions and in political organisations .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , today , with the charter of fundamental rights , parliament is marking a new , important stage in the european union 's journey , towards a more united and - i hope - fairer and more honest europe .
mr president , in the recommendation which is the subject of this debate parliament approves the charter of fundamental rights of the european union .
but this charter is clearly aimed at furthering the ever-closer union of the peoples of europe .
the charter fills a gap in ec law and strengthens the individual ' s protection against infringements by european police , by authorities which combat fraud and by authorities which regulate competition .
how , otherwise , will a legal area of 500 million people be able to operate ?
the charter constitutes a balanced and solid basis for enlargement .
i repeat , this charter turns the union into a community of rights ; it is a step forwards in the process of constitutionalisation of the union and it is the first international document to contain , according to the principle of the indivisibility of fundamental rights , civil and political rights , economic and social rights and new rights , all together .
it is on the basis of formulae such as these articles that , in time , our law-courts guaranteed our fundamental rights .
no , the words which embody our principles , our values and our fundamental rights are powerful if we embrace them and apply them to our civil lifestyles .
mr president , i have long been among the sceptics .
if we really want to reinforce human rights at european level , we ought instead to employ our energy on strengthening the work of the council of europe and on having the eu ratify the european convention on human rights and the corresponding conventions on cultural and social rights , instead of slowly developing a system to compete with the council of europe , as we are now in the process of doing .
for the first time since the european union was established we have here the basis of a constitution , a constitution for the supranational structure that is the european union .
my third observation concerns the rights of citizens from third countries .
mr president , it was a great honour to be able to work with my colleagues in the european parliament and from the national parliaments on drawing up this charter .
we would like to thank roman herzog and inigo mendez de vigo for steering the convention to such outstanding effect and we sincerely hope that the charter will be endorsed in nice with the signature of our president nicole fontaine .
it is a demonstration for a social and democratic europe of the citizens .
for a start , they must incorporate an amendment to article 6 of the eu treaty .
mr president , national constitutions either fail to incorporate social fundamental rights , individual freedom rights and environmental protection or do so to an unsatisfactory extent .
for some rights it will even mean a retrograde step .
in the meantime , the draft charter can serve as an interesting subject for debate amongst the parties , trade unions , environmental organisations , churches and the many other groupings in the member states and the candidate states of the union , regarding future cooperation between european nations .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , power requires control .
i , for one , am delighted that , for a variety of reasons , the union has not acceded to the convention on human rights as it stands , the charter which we shall be voting for today - i hope by a large majority - , will clearly afford us better protection of our fundamental rights which is more in keeping with the times than acceding to the european convention on human rights would have done .
the solemn proclamation must pave the way for binding european constitutional law .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , first of all i wish to associate myself with the congratulations quite rightly heaped on all those who participated in the convention , especially mr mendez de vigo and my colleague , mrs pervenche beres .
i wish to focus on three points that have already been raised by other members here this morning .
secondly , i wish to focus on the binding nature of this charter .
the european public would not understand if europe were to move faster in making improvements to the market and the currency but more slowly in effectively establishing its rights of citizenship and its basic rights .
thirdly , i wish to emphasise , as has already been done , that the nice conclusions and , specifically , the revision of the treaty , should include this reference to the charter of fundamental rights in article 6 ( 2 ) .
that is why , once again , we urge and insist that the presidency should be able to exercise the role of teacher towards its peers in the council .
however , as has been pointed out many times , the text does not have the legal status of a treaty .
the final objective is to establish a european constitution , a fundamental law for a union , which cannot stop at simply having a single currency but must become a political entity with genuinely common foreign and defence policies , an interlocutor on a par with the united states which will be able to take up the great challenge of globalisation in which the countries of the continent of asia are also set to become protagonists in the coming years , starting with china .
the text which we are going to adopt today , parts of which , being the result of a compromise - as president poettering said - fail to satisfy us , must be instrumental in triggering a large-scale debate on the future and on the future european constitution .
the charter of fundamental rights must confer binding legal status upon the rights and establish the levels of responsibility of the union , the states and the regions , and it must bear the people 's seal of approval .
in the conviction that the europe of the future must increasingly safeguard individual rights and the rights of the family and that it must prevent the return of new forms of racism and anti-semitism , the members of forza italia and the european people 's party will vote for the recommendation accompanying the charter of fundamental rights .
mr president , first and foremost , i want to say thank you to the participants in the convention , both from parliament and from the commission and the council .
the charter we are to approve today both strengthens and gives visible shape to the common fundamental rights and values our community is to be based upon .
it is important that these two bodies should not lose their authority .
i believe that adopting the charter in nice will be a powerful signal to certain applicant countries of the seriousness with which the eu regards respect for the fundamental freedoms .
this is the most modern fundamental rights document in the world today and it really does deserve our special appreciation .
as far as i can see , the convention has extracted everything worth its weight in fundamental rights from over 31 legal sources .
within europe , the european citizen knows that europe is now not just an economic entity ; within the candidate countries , no country will be able to aspire to join the european union without ensuring that its national legal system adheres to the principles of the charter ; and finally , on the world scale , this is the message sent out by europe .
there are , however , other effects , particularly on our internal legal system .
once adopted by this house , the charter of fundamental rights will serve as a benchmark for my report and , as far as i can with my own personal and intellectual resources and those of the people assisting me , i shall carry out an evaluation , right by right and country by country , of the extent to which the charter is respected in the fifteen countries of the european union .
for instance , in the area of criminal law the abrogation of the right to extradite fugitives to countries which allow the death penalty could mean that europe becomes a sanctuary for american murderers .
this charter is not only potentially damaging but unnecessary given the fact that we already have the european convention on human rights which was supported in 1950 by the great conservative , winston churchill , and articles 6 and 7 of the treaty of amsterdam .
we have witnessed the hypocrisy in this house when the left-wing were not prepared to support my motion on the italian royal family 's rights being restored .
mr president , with the vote on the charter we are setting off once again along the road towards a european constitution .
i should just like to stress two points which the commission sees as essential .
the principle that political , economic and social rights are indivisible cannot be seen as a minor matter or a way of settling accounts with the past .
the principle of the indivisibility of fundamental rights is a political compromise with regard to the future , especially at a time when some people think that untrammelled globalisation or the hegemony / dominance of the financial markets must be guaranteed by sacrificing citizens ' social rights .
it is subject only to the key concept of the worth of the human being within the construction of europe in the first place , and secondly to a certain vision of the social model , a social model in which solidarity and respect for fundamental rights are compatible with economic competitiveness at world level .
this is an important amalgamation at a time when the european union is required to define the legal status , in terms of rights and duties , of third country nationals legally resident within the european union .
i see it as a foundation stone providing a basis for social development , even insofar as its legal status is concerned .
i think the objective of ensuring the indivisibility of fundamental rights is critical , and that the council , the commission and parliament should make special efforts to publish and distribute the charter among european citizens , but i am quite sure that , above and beyond the political instructional quality of the charter , its legal impact is going to make itself felt , particularly with regard to the institutions proclaiming it .
i am convinced that the commission , the council and parliament itself will not be able to ignore the charter of fundamental rights of the european union when acting , in future , in a legislative or executive capacity .
in this respect i am disappointed to hear the criticisms of legal activism which have been made , as i , in fact , wonder whether the greatest incentive to activism is not specifically provided by article 6 ( 2 ) of the treaty , which refers to the vague , abstract concept of the shared constitutional tradition of the fifteen member states , instead of referring to a charter containing 48 clear , readable articles .
finally , you are aware that the commission is of the opinion that the convention has drawn up a text which is destined , sooner or later , to be incorporated into the treaties .
it is destined to be incorporated in to the treaties and the commission thinks this should be fully realised as part of the reorganisation of the treaties we proposed at the intergovernmental conference , which we hope the european council will be able to approve in nice .
listening to this debate , i am pleased to see what appears to be a clear majority in parliament in favour of this text , even if there a number of you still have to be won over .
the charter therefore , i am convinced , properly belongs to the political acquis communautaire .
it was a clear-cut choice between either a substantial text which was liable not to be binding in the short term or a text which perhaps had some chance of being binding in the short term but which would have lost any content .
the commissioner has just mentioned the spirit in which the charter was drawn up , with a view to its being made , one day , a binding text .
never in the history of european construction has the principle of transparency been applied with such determination and with such success .
let me remind you that etuc , for example , representing 60 million employees in europe , was consulted , that several hundred ngos were consulted , that citizens had the opportunity to simply submit their contributions and that some of their proposals were adopted by the convention .
the convention chose to include fundamental rights inspired by various texts of the council of europe , the treaties and member state constitutions .
the human rights included in the charter are powerful ones .
the charter affirms the social values of european construction .
it also most forcefully affirms the equality of men and women in all areas , as well as the principle of non-discrimination .
the point i wanted to make in mentioning all this is that nice is a vital stage .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
this is the spirit in which the preparatory work for this report was carried out within the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , and i should like , at this point , to thank all my fellow members for the contribution they made towards finalising this report , which , like the commission , concludes that turkey does not currently fulfil the copenhagen criteria .
we must applaud the remarkable efforts turkey has made , since the helsinki decision , in devising a programme to develop its judicial framework in order to meet eu demands in a more satisfactory manner , with particular regard to human rights .
however , we must also note and acknowledge that an awareness of the importance of these reforms has caused considerable upheavals in the various political parties and in turkish public opinion .
lengthy debates will be needed , both in the european parliament and in the national parliaments , and that is why it is generally accepted that the road will be long and difficult .
the european parliament will have to tell its turkish partners very clearly in the debates in that forum that they need have no fear of any european desire to interfere in their internal affairs and that , on the contrary , it is proposing a contract , the precise details of which are being thrashed out , in the accession partnership , commissioner , and , of course , in the convention on the charter of fundamental rights .
as matters stand , it is also up to the european parliament to tell the turkish people that there are , today , at least three conditions for accession which turkey must meet .
firstly , the need for identity must be respected : this need has been demonstrated particularly clearly in europe by its citizens who wish to preserve their origins in the face of the ineluctable progress of globalisation .
it is in this spirit that it is prepared to help turkey find a solution to the kurdish problem in particular .
finally , since the fight against terrorism may now be deemed to be over , the influence of the turkish army in the drawing up of political decisions should be gradually reduced .
in 1987 , parliament acknowledged the armenian genocide .
this would run counter to the spirit and the letter of the process defined in copenhagen for all candidate countries .
the council is proposing with unanimity that turkey should join the group of recipients of guarantees , and parliament ' s committee on budgets is also unanimous in this .
through its application for membership , turkey has given the union the right to adopt a position on its internal affairs .
besides , conditions could not have been imposed exclusively by a decision of the european parliament .
i would like to focus attention on how little parliament is able to influence the work of the european investment bank and how badly the european union monitors that work in general .
in the european parliament we would in general like to impose conditions on european investment bank loans as far as environmental considerations and the social protection of the citizens of non-member countries are concerned , and , in the case of turkey , this also concerns a respect for human rights .
the problems associated with the monitoring and examination of the management of the european investment bank also stem from the fact that there are only representatives of the member states in its governing body , and some of them want to prevent the commission and the european parliament from taking a stand on bank matters .
i am , of course , thinking of the work undertaken within the association council with a view to bringing turkish legislation into line with the acquis communautaire .
i have noted reservations on the part of many people , not just within the european parliament , but also in all the member states .
we all agree that negotiations cannot in any case commence , let me stress that fact , until turkey has met the copenhagen political criteria in full .
we are indeed all aware , yourselves , the council presidency and also , i believe , the commission , whose latest report on the progress achieved in turkey stressed once again the efforts this country still needs to made , the reforms still to be implemented in areas as crucial as respect for human rights , fundamental freedoms and minority rights , in particular , areas in which , as we can only regret , progress is still too slow and even inadequate .
that is why , in the same spirit , the european union must fulfil the commitments it has made with regard to this country , which i think it imperative to meet , particularly in terms of financial aid .
the french presidency has made this one of its objectives and i believe we are making progress .
this house has , of course , on several occasions been invited to give an opinion on this matter , be it the meda programme or the financial regulations proposed by the commission to ensure euro-turkish rapprochement and to support the customs union , but there are also the european investment bank projects , which are essential in order to support turkey ' s economic development and to continue the reconstruction work undertaken following the earthquake .
for its part , the presidency would like to see this special action programme of eib loans adopted by the council very soon , probably as early as the forthcoming meeting of the council of ministers of economic and financial affairs on 27 november .
i would add that we are all awaiting with keen interest the proposal announced by the commission for a single regulation intended to coordinate all sources of community aid to turkey , in line with the plans made in helsinki .
parliament will , of course , have the opportunity to deliver an opinion on this matter , when the time comes .
as you know , however , this pre-accession aid will be more particularly intended to help turkey achieve the objectives laid down in the future accession partnership agreement .
this is a key instrument in the pre-accession strategy for this country , and its importance was rightly highlighted in the recent commission report .
this is a proposal which is going to be examined in detail by the competent council bodies , so you will understand that i cannot , in my capacity as president-in-office of the council , afford to pre-judge the situation .
the presidency ' s preference is for this draft to be adopted very quickly , indeed , if possible , as early as 20 november , the date of the forthcoming general affairs council , and , as i have already mentioned , for it to comply with the very specific decisions adopted in helsinki .
it will then be up to turkey to take its inspiration from this in order to work out its own national programme to integrate the acquis and in order to implement the reforms , all the reforms necessary , with the support of the european union .
let us be demanding , let us be vigilant , but at the same time , let us remain consistent with the logic of our decision , making a bet on turkey , having confidence in its determination for rapprochement with the european union , and let us therefore assist turkey to boost its ability to implement the necessary reforms which we quite legitimately expect of the country .
as you know , not only has the commission recently submitted the progress report for the year 2000 ; it has also proposed an accession partnership for the very first time in the history of our relations .
this draft resolution highlights our common objective of bringing turkey closer to the european union .
we can already see that the helsinki process has set a series of interesting and important developments in motion .
the most important thing , as far as i am concerned , is that helsinki triggered a debate in turkey , a public debate on the conditions of turkey 's accession to the eu , a debate which is supporting and bolstering the forces of reform in turkey .
for example , the human rights committee in the turkish national assembly has reported on torture in turkey and the turkish government has passed a resolution to bring the turkish constitution and the turkish legal system into line with the values of the european union .
i think that the accession partnership which we have tabled is the best way of supporting this process and of ensuring that the european union is able to exert the necessary influence on the process itself .
i have stressed time and again in my contacts with the turkish government that the european union expects turkey to give a firm undertaking that it will take action to implement these reform objectives .
as a possible contribution to this , the commission has proposed that the european investment bank grant turkey a line of credit of eur 450 million , to be used mainly to improve the competitiveness of the turkish economy on the internal market .
i am delighted that you will be exchanging views on this question with your turkish counterparts in the joint parliamentary committee next week .
i also welcome the proposals in this report on stepping up parliamentary cooperation and strengthening civil society .
here we are talking about establishing a special programme to consolidate the customs union , extending the mandate of the european investment bank so that it can cover new loans to turkey in the 2000-2004 period amounting to eur 450 million .
given that this special programme of eur 450 million , of which the european union is guaranteeing 65 % , specifies that at a provisioning rate of 9 % only eur 26 million will have to be transferred from the reserve to the guarantee fund , there will only be a budgetary impact in the event of a default , because in that case the guarantee would have to be called in .
with these loans from the european investment bank we are supporting investment in turkish industry and in its infrastructures in terms of transport , energy and telecommunications .
the fundamental issue of turkey ' s accession continues to be a political issue and it is the responsibility of other parliamentary committees .
customs union and the loans from the european investment bank have been operating with turkey for many years .
the aim now is to give the boost that is needed towards future accession .
i repeat that the only serious problems that we could have would occur if the macro-financial aid promised reached the maximum amount established , as in this hypothesis the residual reserve for guarantees would be reduced to practically zero for 2001 and 2002 .
let us remember that it is in the interests of the european union to fund nuclear safety projects in third countries in the framework of euratom .
a zero level of residual reserve could lead to definite problems in funding those investments .
the general situation that the report sets out is part of a situation of parliament / council negotiation for the 2001 budget , in which the european parliament wishes to extend its rights to information and consultation in the case of external commitments by the union that have a financial impact .
even if parliament is critical and even if parliament is perhaps more critical than the council and the commission can ever be , we trust that turkey will choose this way forward and will become a member of the european union just as soon as it has put its house in order .
we will resist the efforts , some of them fairly spurious , to upset the balance the report successfully achieves , especially those amendments which seek to set up the european parliament as a tribunal upon the past .
the morillon report and the accession to partnership commit the european union to turkey 's candidature .
in the first place , it is clear that the strategy of accepting turkey ' s candidature was the right one .
it was the correct strategy , as the commissioner commented , because the debate which has taken place in turkey today in order for it to become a member of the european union is tantamount to a debate in favour of radical reform of the political situation in the country .
on this subject we have to tell turkey that its refusal to accept the rulings of the european court of justice in strasbourg cannot be tolerated .
turkey must without further ado fall in line with the rulings of the european court of justice as a token of acceptance of international relations as defined by us , and not just by them .
some are in favour of the candidature and the accession of turkey , and want this candidature to involve a radical reform of turkish society .
turkish society obviously perceives this contradictory attitude .
there is another matter , and if we have to vote on it today , the majority of my group will vote in favour of this resolution .
i am not certain , personally , that this is a useful move , because i wish to take the debate to turkey .
in other words , i propose that the european parliament should itself hold a debate on the armenian genocide , the majority will follow on and we shall continue the debate in turkey .
mr morillon , in my view , your report is an exceptionally realistic and responsible report .
we have indeed seen a number of interesting symbolic acts on the part of the turkish government since the helsinki council resolution several months ago .
however , nothing has been done to change the horrendous situation in turkish jails , discrimination against the kurds or turkey 's policy on cyprus .
turkey 's membership on this basis , rather than for the geo-strategic reasons put forward by the usa or nato , would enrich the european union and represent a significant step towards a united europe .
in my experience - the experience , i may add , of a life which knows just as much about radical social change as the refusal to recognise the need for it in time - , there is no substitute for critical candour .
but , in my book , the commission report is a real step backwards .
europe ' s borders are now peaceful but , if turkey does one day join the european union , europe will have a new border ; not just an extra-european border , but a border of war and conflict .
lastly i do not feel that questions have been asked concerning the size of the actual population represented by turkey ' s candidacy and the difficulties that this will cause , not only in terms of the union ' s geography but especially in terms of the already delicate balance between large , medium-sized and small member states .
i shall conclude as i began : the idea and purpose of my speech have been to draw attention to the fact that changes on this scale should not take place without a democratic , ongoing debate , otherwise the deficit in citizenship and participation that many europeans feel with regard to the model of european construction will continue to grow .
mr president , the morillon report in itself provides a perfect illustration of the basic contradictions in the european attitude to turkey .
so the only real preamble which we should all be bound by is a recital taking into consideration the obvious facts of the situation .
turkey must not , therefore , join the european union .
we cannot play about with the dignity of nations .
we shall therefore vote against this report , just as we have voted against all the reports seeking to make turkey a member of the european union .
mr president , is turkey really ready to solve internal and overseas problems such as the conflict over cyprus and the minorities issue , to the satisfaction of the european union ?
turkey ' s former foreign minister , mumtaz soysal , recently put this pressing question .
mr president , with your permission i would like to briefly take up three fundamental points in mr morillon ' s report : the political influence exerted by the turkish army , the kurdish question and the aspect referred to earlier of ' tolerance for other religions and cultures ' .
the problems are so serious as to preclude turkey 's accession in the foreseeable future .
we aim to help turkey become a free democratic country in which the rule of law prevails .
i would stress that in entrusting this huge power of monitoring the european databases to a monocratic body - notwithstanding the total respect and confidence which we have in the guarantor - we would appear to have momentarily shifted our focus from the central concern of the human person which , in respect of the power of information technology , must be provided with a reference framework of guaranteed rights and freedoms .
in my opinion , the proposal to establish a collegiate body would have responded better to this need .
what is more , it does not go so far as the french legislation on computer technology and freedoms .
finally , citizens must be given the means to protect their own privacy themselves by allowing a free choice of encryption in data transmission .
i welcome this report and will vote for it .
duff / voggenhuber recommendation ( a5-0325 / 2000 ) madam president , how could the pensioners ' party not vote for the charter of fundamental rights ?
it is the first document of such importance in the whole world to contain an article - article 25 - entitled ' the rights of the elderly ' , which reads : " the union recognises and respects the rights of the elderly to lead a life of dignity and independence and to participate in social and cultural life " .
the charter therefore has no binding force upon countries whose legislation does not go quite so far as the minimum contained in the charter .
in countries whose legislation is more favourable to workers , however , the charter may be cited to oppose the national legislation in courts of law .
madam president , i did not take part in the vote on the charter of fundamental rights because i do not agree with the procedure : parliament has been unable to propose any amendments either to the text of the charter or even to the text of the recommendation .
the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is a far cry from the declaration of human rights of the un , the european convention on human rights and the constitutions of many member states of the european union .
those who dreamed up this charter are banking on using this weighty document to pursue their aggressive policy against everything the working classes have fought , sacrificed and died for over the past 150 years .
the rights contained in the charter are already included in national constitutions and safeguarded by national parliaments close to the nations of europe and their cultures .
moreover , the charter is a compromise based on the lowest common denominator , which will be detrimental to social advantages acquired by law in a good number of european member states .
the right to housing , for example , has been reduced to the right to " housing assistance " , while the right to work has been replaced by the " right of access to placement services " .
articles establishing new obligations without justification .
article 19 ( 1 ) , for example , states that " collective expulsions are prohibited " but does not specify that this ban may be suspended in the event of war or serious internal public order disturbances .
as a third example of this , article 45 states that " freedom of movement and residence may be granted to nationals of third countries legally resident in the territory of a member state " , even though the law to this effect , as contemplated by article 62 of the treaty establishing the european community , is not currently in force , and perhaps never will be if the conditions are not met .
this applies particularly to the economic and social rights listed in chapter iv of the charter .
article 24 , on the rights of the child , even fails to say , once again in spite of our requests , that every child has the right to live with his or her parents .
for instance , the new requirement for non-discrimination on grounds of language , found in articles 21 and 22 , contradicts the french constitution which stipulates that the language of the republic of france is french .
articles obfuscating or distorting the charter .
in the same vein , i have mentioned 52 ( 2 ) which claims that the meaning and scope of the rights in the charter shall be the same as those in the european convention on human rights .
ratifying the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms would be one of the most ambitious steps ever taken by the european union .
the charter will involve the european court of justice in a number of political decisions , in fields as diverse as employment law , extradition policy , immigration and the family .
the right of a government arbitrarily to set aside its own constitution is the defining characteristic of a tyranny .
human rights are already respected in the eu , and safeguarded by national constitutional provisions according to the different customs of the member states .
the debate on this charter has been eagerly applauded by eu federalists who wish to see it as the beginning of a constitution for the european union .
it is in danger of undermining the council of europe ' s work on human rights and of leading to a situation in which human rights are dealt with in different ways in european countries in the future .
it is an extremely positive outcome both for the french presidency of the european union and for the european parliament .
we must ensure that the existing rights flowing from the european convention on human rights , and supported by the decision of the european court of human rights in strasbourg , are not diminished or brought into confusion .
the debate on this charter has been eagerly applauded by eu federalists who wish to see it as the beginning of a constitution for the european union .
it is in danger of undermining the council of europe ' s work on human rights and of leading to a situation in which human rights are dealt with in different ways in european countries in the future .
article 17 very reticently states that " the use of property may be regulated " in the general interest .
there is , however , no mention of social obligations relating to the right to property .
however , what worries us most is that the twin-track jurisdiction of the european court of justice and the european court of human rights will give rise to inconsistent case law , resulting in the unequal treatment of citizens in these sensitive areas , in breach of their fundamental rights .
the original idea behind the convention was to have a text adopted by consensus which could subsequently be made binding by the fifteen member state governments when it was incorporated into the treaties .
if citizens are to feel involved in the european union , its policies and institutions , then it is up to the members of parliament in particular to disclose more of the critical decisions , the contradictions , the divergent interests and projects driving the economic and social operators within the european arena .
we need better european legislation to improve the quality of life for all and to improve social welfare systems .
there is no right to work , just the " right to engage in work " ; there is no right to social protection or accommodation , just " the right to social assistance and housing assistance " ; there is no right to a retirement pension or a minimum income ; there is no ban on redundancies , just the " right to protection against unjustified dismissal " .
given that only have two options , my decision is unequivocally to vote in favour of the step forward which this charter represents , however small that step forward may be in terms of the content and scope of the text .
at this time when debate in the institutions of europe is being undertaken concomitantly with the charter being adopted , all those men and women who , like myself , would like a european constitution and consider that this charter may serve as the bare bones for the preamble to such a constitution should demand that the european parliament be enabled to vote on the content , as part of its normal parliamentary business , which is basically deliberative .
this is therefore the first priority : we must give this charter real legal force .
secondly , the right to work is not directly stated .
the difference between not prohibiting access to work and taking action to make it possible to work is more than just a shade of meaning .
the charter should have clearly stated the right to work , and indeed the right to housing , which was also expressed in a roundabout way , affording little protection .
the charter must be improved , and the european parliament must propose a strategy enabling it to be updated and enriched . .
in addition , it is confusing from the legal perspective , as a result of which the powers of the european court of human rights in strasbourg are in competition with those of the european court of justice in luxembourg .
unless it is amended in such a way as to shift the emphasis to social fundamental rights and the environment , i will be unable to vote in favour of adopting the charter . . ( de ) the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is an important step towards defining the general , common values of the european union .
it has already been assumed that the charter might form the basis for a european constitution .
that makes including fundamental social rights even more important . 2 .
it should not therefore be decided and proclaimed at the council summit in nice ; on the contrary , the summit should prompt a european debate on the charter .
i voted for the charter of fundamental rights as a declaration of intent .
there will be no shift in the balance of power between the eu and member states .
we are very familiar with the position held by the majority in this parliament .
we understand their position when they try to give a qualitatively diverse political meaning to a text on fundamental rights , which is not only vague and all-encompassing , but is also going to be of arguable usefulness in an eu that has no serious shortcomings , either in the legal status of its rights or in the way in which these rights are defended and implemented .
the great political debate on the charter will therefore take place firstly between national governments and then , eventually , when this parliament is confronted with their decision .
in the debate in this chamber today , regarding the charter of fundamental human rights , the commission representative stated that this charter was a first step toward a legally binding document .
these statements confirm the concerns expressed within my country that this charter is intended to be the preamble to a european constitution .
established as " a body " by the cologne summit , it declared itself a " convention " , a name with unfortunate connotations of 1793 when the french revolution degenerated into the reign of terror under another " convention " .
the basic right to a nation , which was also demanded and which is also fundamental , was also censored .
ultimately there is nothing european about the text of the charter .
as it stands , it could be adopted by just about any country in the whole world .
the value of the content of such an exercise , quite apart from its illegitimacy , given that the european union has no jurisdiction in the field of human rights , cannot clearly be seen since , in europe , our freedoms are protected remarkably well by the founding texts of our nations and by the european convention on human rights .
pensioners are in favour of strengthening criminal law , european law especially , as well as national law , for i am afraid that crimes are no longer committed solely by our citizens but by people of other nationalities as well .
these texts have two points in common .
firstly , they are mutually complementary , extending europol ' s competence , setting up a provisional judicial cooperation unit , improving reciprocal assistance in judicial matters between member states and defining more clearly the conditions for the fight against money laundering which is the result , or the cause , or in any case a necessary component in a great many very serious crimes .
next , these texts are all based on initiatives by member states , coming under either the third pillar of article 67 of the treaty establishing the european community , where the commission does not have the monopoly on the right of initiative .
moreover , it is developing forms of cooperation that give greater respect to national sovereignty , as is shown by the initiative of the french republic dealt with in the roure report , which manages to reconcile mutual assistance in judicial matters and respect for the key interests of the member states .
we supported these initiatives in general , except where the european parliament amendments were tending to introduce too much of a federalist bias .
the arguments put forward by the european parliament are completely fallacious .
the fact is , this house wishes to interfere with everything but draws the line at supporting the decisions which nonetheless lie at the heart of the responsibilities of states in order to protect their own peoples .
the council ' s common position has not been officially recognised .
the report under discussion today is a direct result of the commitment made at the european council in tampere , in october 1999 , to combat this scourge of money laundering which amounts to between 2 and 5 % of the world ' s gdp every year .
we have had proposals , firstly , to extend europol ' s competence to cover money laundering - the karamanou report - and , secondly , for a raft of measures to improve international cooperation in the field of mutual assistance in criminal matters - the roure report .
the marinho report now seeks to extend the principle of the mutual recognition of national measures for the identification , tracing , freezing , seizing and confiscation of instrumentalities and the proceeds from crime , established by the joint action 98 / 699 / jha in 1998 , to decisions in the pre-court phase , especially those enabling the competent authorities to take rapid action to obtain evidence and seize easily transportable assets .
i welcome this report .
special action against money laundering was proposed in tampere in 1999 .
the right to property appears almost to be sacrosanct .
it sometimes seems as though this objective takes precedence over the fight against white-collar crime .
in practice , such cooperation could primarily be deployed , once in a while , for purposes other than the fight against money laundering .
money laundering feeds the trade in drug-trafficking .
we welcome the french presidency 's initiative aimed at improving cooperation between national authorities responsible for tackling money laundering and laying down uniform penalties .
all member states should treat money laundering as a criminal offence carrying a minimum sentence of four years ' imprisonment .
this will be an important tool in allowing criminals to be tried across europe .
these measures drafted by socialist meps are an important step in combating international crime and i urge the house to support these reports .
karamanou report ( a5-0312 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the karamanou report , whose objective is also of major importance : the creation of a european police office .
however , it is vital that national parliaments and the european parliament have access to information on europol 's activities in order to ensure political accountability and that there is a role for the european court to ensure judicial accountability .
we also support the future establishment of a convention to help combat organised crime and money laundering , and the various measures proposed in order to achieve those purposes .
the idea of creating an area of freedom , security and justice in europe is , obviously , an aspiration that we share .
we feel that the strict limitation of the reasons for which the member states may refuse to provide judicial cooperation solely to " essential interests , " thus excluding the notions of sovereignty , public order and national security in force up until now is a step forward , but is still inadequate .
this is mainly because we still find it unacceptable for a state to be able to invoke a " general interest " in order to be able to deny judicial cooperation in criminal matters .
this shows , once again , that the member states have a long way to go in understanding the meaning of shared sovereignty .
moreover , i should point out , as a member representing basques and catalans , that there continues to be an emphasis on cooperation between states , without taking into account that in the eu other police forces operate that are not state bodies .
this report and , in general , the area of freedom , safety and justice in europe , is based on democracy and on the rule of law that should reign in the eu .
therefore , what most concerns me about the future of legal cooperation in the eu is that currently some states are proposing criminal reforms that are bordering on the violation of human rights .
specifically , this special legislation is considering sentences of up to ten years in prison for children of 14 years of age , not to mention other measures .
ladies and gentlemen , we are convinced that europe needs to construct the area of freedom , security and justice that we so often cite in our speeches .
the draft convention proposes that banking secrecy may not be used as a reason to refuse a request from another member state for information on somebody suspected of being involved in financial crime .
gebhardt report ( a5-0317 / 2000 ) madam president , this is a document - which i voted for - which is intended to establish gradually , step by step , a european public prosecution service .
in fact , a provisional cooperation unit is being set up , composed of a representative of the judges or police officers with equivalent competence from each of our 15 member states .
however , i would have hoped that this body would also have included representatives of the lawyers of each of the 15 states , for i feel that , at a time when we have to establish something new in the legal area , it would be beneficial to consult not only the judges who judge but also the lawyers , who have a great deal of experience in the field .
nor will such a system be able to solve the problems faced by the member states .
i should like today to highlight mr morillon 's call for a european-turkish discussion forum in the house and for a debate on turkey 's accession prospects in the national parliaments in our member states .
the initial euphoria of the council and commission has clearly waned .
consequently , there is even more need now , almost one year on from helsinki , for turkey 's accession prospects to be debated in our national parliaments and with our citizens .
when the eib grants loans to countries other than the member states , parliament ought also to be consulted about the political priorities to be set in what is a part of the bank ' s activity mainly motivated by foreign policy .
the kemalist ideology that was modern in 1930 is not so in 2000 .
hence my amendments on the need for a political solution for the kurdish people .
i hope parliament and the council will remedy that omission .
until there is a solution for the kurds there will be no fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria and i therefore call upon parliament to pass my amendments , and on the council and parliament to insist that a solution for the kurds is a key to unlocking the problems of turkey fulfilling the copenhagen criteria .
while there is a special relationship between azerbaijan and turkey , this is far from being the case for armenia , a country against which turkey is maintaining a commercial blockade , which is not acceptable in a country which has been accepted as a candidate for membership of the european union .
in this context , i would like to reiterate the basic conclusion in paragraph 22 that turkey does not meet the copenhagen criteria and draw attention both to the fact that turkey has been condemned on numerous occasions for acts and omissions in relation to human rights , democratic freedoms and its international attitude and to the european parliament 's recommendations that turkey comply with the relevant european values .
on the other hand , although paragraphs 9 , 10 , 12 and 17 expressly refer to infringements of these values by turkey on numerous occasions , especially by the turkish occupying army in cyprus , which turkey is called on to withdraw , the fact remains that it would have been preferable to roundly condemn turkey 's present and past responsibility for problems caused by its intransigence and the resultant impasse on the cyprus question - where , it should be noted , there are clear signs of turkey 's intention to provoke a new heated crisis - , its failure to abide by international conventions with its expansionist policy towards greece , its concealment of the historical truth of the armenian genocide and its disregard for the fundamental minority rights of the kurds .
this is the first serious step on the road towards turkey 's accession and the accession process can now move into the practical application stage .
i find them unseemly , ill-advised , untimely and inappropriate because these are amendments which use three words - " genocide , " " muslim " and " asian " - in a way that is racist , derogatory and discriminatory and which causes impenetrable and false barriers to be erected against turkey 's accession to the union .
indeed , the un convention of 1948 has not been broadened to include the armenian tragedy .
i welcome turkey 's careful progress towards the union and i support the commission and the morillon report .
the turkish parliamentarian , leyla zana , winner of the sakharov prize , and in prison since 1995 merely for haven spoken in kurdish within the turkish parliament , is still languishing in prison .
mr president , paragraph 17 of mr morillon ' s report states that the european parliament ' calls on the turkish government to withdraw its occupation forces from northern cyprus ' .
almost 40 per cent of cyprus is occupied by foreign troops in the form of turkish soldiers .
this means that , as a democratic state under the rule of law with separation of powers and fundamental values as we understand them , turkey will enrich the european union .
turkey will become an essentially democratic country once it learns to live with its past , just as democratic germany has learned to live with its past - we asked the same of it .
mr president , i should like to offer general morillon my warmest congratulations on his report , in which he has combined perceptiveness with clarity .
as you all know , our group was highly sceptical about turkey 's candidate status but we are delighted , now that turkey has candidate status , that it is on the ball and has decided to engage in a process of reform in order to meet the demands of the european union .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i should like to speak in this debate in my capacity as the author of the report on the accession of cyprus .
since both turkey and cyprus are candidates for membership of the european union , it is increasingly clear that a solution to the cypriot question is becoming a matter of internal policy .
commission verheugen has confirmed that the cyprus issue plays a very important part in the discussions currently being conducted with turkey .
paragraph 17 of our motion for a resolution explicitly calls for this .
one of the three conditions stipulated in the morillon report , a condition that the european parliament will be adopting , would still remain unfulfilled .
mr president , there is much in this resolution on turkey 's progress towards accession which is commendable - in particular the call to the commission to implement a properly resourced pre-accession strategy .
of course peoples of kurdish origins as well as other cultural and linguistic minorities must not be subjected to political , economic or other discrimination and must have the opportunity to express themselves freely , but this expression should be through entirely peaceful means and without intimidation and terrorism .
we should also be clear that the resolution of extraordinarily difficult problems such as cyprus , which requires the assent of all the people of cyprus , will not be helped by frustrating turkish progress towards accession .
in other words , we are talking about increasing the degree to which turkey is subject to the economic , political and military objectives of big business in the european union .
there are also positive references to cyprus , with the call for the occupying forces to be withdrawn , to the need to implement the decisions of the european court , as in the loizidou case , to the need for a political solution to the kurdish question and to the bombings in iraq .
for us , the basic issue is this : despite numerous allegations to the contrary , not only has turkey failed to improve the standard of living of its people , in certain sectors it has made it worse since customs union in 1995 and the declaration of candidate status in 1999 .
a number of speakers have expressed their concerns regarding the human rights situation and the treatment of minorities , particularly the kurdish question , the heavy involvement of the military in political life , the legal system and capital punishment , all of which are very serious issues .
we can but share these concerns , which were duly expressed by the commission in its last annual report .
president sezer has made a personal commitment to the process of modernisation in his country .
the strategy adopted in helsinki last december marked a turning point in relations between the european union and turkey .
it is within this balanced framework that we shall have to resolutely continue our work to promote rapprochement between the european union and turkey .
so , in conclusion , let me say : let us be demanding , let us be vigilant , let us set our terms but , let us not be excessive in our demands , as we too must live up to our commitments and the european union made an important decision in helsinki .
mr president , i should like to close the debate by pointing out that there is , of course , a link between the commission report on the progress that has been made , or not made , in turkey and the accession partnership .
the accession partnership per se is a very balanced document , based largely on the helsinki conclusions .
we are at the proposal stage and i am not in a position this afternoon to tell you if this project will get beyond the proposal stage , especially if parliament endorses proposals made here this morning and this afternoon .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
i should like to thank mr brok for allowing me to give an assessment of the current state of the european union ' s mediterranean policy since this is , as you know , the eve of the fourth conference of foreign ministers from the euro-mediterranean partnership , which is to be held in marseilles .
it is , moreover , the reason for our insistence on drawing up an assessment of the results of the first five years of implementation of the barcelona process , in order to be in a position , in marseilles , to establish the necessary guidelines .
mr brok referred to the common strategy on the mediterranean region , adopted in feira in june .
this , however , unlike the euro-mediterranean partnership , which unites the fifteen member states with twelve partners on the southern coast of the mediterranean , is an instrument for discipline within the union , to some extent , designed to intensify the coherence and coordination of all community instruments and member state policies with regard to the mediterranean region .
priorities for the implementation of this common strategy have already been established by the presidency and were presented to the council of ministers in september .
the presidency strove particularly to identify areas on which the european union and its partners of the southern mediterranean should concentrate their efforts in order to reinvigorate the barcelona process , particularly by intensifying political and economic dialogue , improving the effectiveness of community aid , the implementation of sub-regional cooperation and south-south integration , and even intensifying initiatives in the field of justice and home affairs .
this is indeed also our objective for the marseilles conference .
indeed , when we instigated the partnership in 1995 , we were aware that we were undertaking a long-term project .
there was plainly nothing easy about the task of bringing together , overnight , 27 partners as diverse as this against an often tense , and occasionally more than tense political background and within a framework as original as the barcelona arrangement .
you may rest assured that we fully intend to continue in this way .
and even if it is true that the economic aspect of barcelona is the one that , despite the delays , is working best , the main thing is that we must not lose sight of this overall approach , without which the process would be consigned to being nothing more than just another free trade area , lacking in political or human vision in the long term and this would be unfortunate .
our mediterranean partners are our direct neighbours .
great prospects are opening up , too , for cooperation in the areas of combating trafficking of all sorts , migration and enhancing the rule of law .
it is furthermore in our own interests to support our partners in their process of structural reforms , upgrading and opening up their economies to competition .
the challenges are such , the needs of the southern countries are so great that the resources of the european union will always appear to be inadequate , especially since the external commitments of the union have increased to an extraordinary degree in the last few years .
this is a debate which , as you know , we have had several times in the council ; a debate which i think i can say lies at the heart of the reform undertaken on the initiative of commissioner patten .
the fact remains that the council , particularly since 1995 , has striven to allocate more extensive resources to the mediterranean region , appropriate to the challenges of the partnership .
since 1995 the french presidency has made particular efforts in this regard , especially at the european council in cannes , where we succeeded in restoring balance between the funding for mediterranean policy and that properly allocated to the countries of central and eastern europe .
this is the spirit in which the meda i programme was launched with eur 3.4 billion committed between 1995 and 1999 .
we have already managed to agree on the arrangements for the meda ii financial regulation .
i feel that the instrument we shall have in future will be more effective , more speedy , more transparent and therefore , ultimately , more credible .
i feel that with an allocation of several billion euros for the mediterranean region over the period 2000-2007 , we shall be in a position to fulfil the expectations of our partner countries in the south over the next few years , and that is crucial .
in fact , it is no longer just a matter , as it was in 1995 , of restoring balance with eastern europe , but also of making ready for the future enlargement of the european union .
in our opinion , this is one more reason to emphasise the mediterranean dimension of a european union that wishes to be an actor on the world stage and for which the mediterranean region must and shall continue to be the ' uniting sea ' or in latin the ' mare nostrum ' .
i should like expressly to thank the french presidency of the council for endeavouring to give the necessary momentum to the barcelona process .
we in central europe must understand that the debate on the barcelona process is in our common interest , just as we expect southern europeans to understand that enlargement to central and eastern europe is in our common interest .
naturally , we hope that mr patten 's concept will succeed and that the commission will be able to implement these projects more quickly than has been the case in the past .
with proper economic and social prospects in place , there is a good chance of implementing human rights and democratising the community of states in the region .
the worrying developments which we have witnessed in many states in north africa in the past and , in fact , are still witnessing today , also come under this heading and i hope that we shall manage to bring all the countries of north africa on board in this process without any whys and wherefores .
the current situation in the middle east is making abundantly clear what measures are needed in the form of joint policies and cooperation .
i think that the european union has a special role to play here and that the countries and the people in these regions are waiting for the european union to exert its political influence because it can bring balance and credibility to bear there .
i trust that the fact that this political influence is expected and we are expected to play a part there will help to get things moving in marseilles and provide the necessary credibility , allowing us to make a contribution to peace in this region and enhance our own stability .
in the temporary , but wholly understandable , absence of my honourable friend at the beginning of this debate i was tempted to say that this would be like hamlet without the prince , but i am delighted that he is with us in order to contribute his wisdom and good sense to this extremely important debate which is taking place at the honourable member 's initiative .
many of us were delighted , even surprised , by the extent of the progress which seemed to have been made this summer at camp david and we gave a great deal of applause to president clinton and his administration for all they had done to move things forward .
nobody would seek to deny that the barcelona process and the middle east peace process are interconnected .
the breakthrough in euro-mediterranean relations at barcelona was made possible partly by the breakthrough at madrid and then the oslo accords .
we must not allow the barcelona process to become a hostage to the middle east peace process .
the commission has been encouraged by the generally positive reaction to the proposals that we set out on reinvigorating the barcelona process , both in the european union and among the mediterranean partners .
we in fact completed our negotiations with egypt almost 18 months ago and i wish that we could now rapidly proceed to initialling the agreement and then in due course to full signature .
i would also like to see us commencing more serious negotiations on association agreements with the other countries .
we want to see the bringing together of policies on single market issues and agreement to introduce cumulation of origin side-by-side with the sub-regional free trade arrangements for all partners entering into free trade with each other and adopting the harmonised protocol on rules of origin .
reaching agreement on a new regional programme on justice and home affairs covering migration in the widest sense , the fight against organised crime and cooperation on judicial matters is another subject on which we hope we can have a good exchange of views .
the revision of the meda regulation and the reform already announced of the commission 's external aid system will help to achieve this and will also lead to more human resources being available .
as far as human rights are concerned , we propose a structural approach looking at the performance of countries over time .
a country which has serious doubts raised about its record on human rights , democracy and the rule of law and is not prepared to discuss these matters transparently will not find it easy to fit into the new world pattern and it will be less likely to prosper in the longer term .
i just want to say one more thing about meda and the reform of our external aid which is relevant to debates which members are having elsewhere .
in order to ensure that we deliver more rapidly in the mediterranean and elsewhere in the world , we need - as members accept rationally and intellectually - more resources to actually manage our programmes and the commission has put forward what are sensible proposals for doing that .
there are some members who think that we should put those extra resources into the reserve until we have accomplished certain other objectives .
i say to members of parliament , in all good faith , that there comes a moment when you have to trust us and when you have to let us try to do the job , because we cannot conceivably implement our plans more effectively if the people we need to manage them are not made amiable until we have actually demonstrated that we can manage things more effectively .
it is an issue which is extremely important to all the mediterranean countries and i hope i will be able to assure them this week that it is our firm intention to do a great deal better in the delivery of our programmes in future .
i hope that all the ministers who gather in marseilles will recognise the need to agree on this set of realistic proposals to reinvigorate the barcelona process precisely now that the middle east is suffering serious difficulties .
we have committed in the past huge resources to this partnership .
we have not managed them as well as we should have done but we have committed huge resources and that reflects the priority which parliament , the commission and the council give to strengthening the partnership around our " middle sea . "
we welcome with great satisfaction the news that the commission intends to reinvigorate the barcelona process .
however , we feel that the events taking place in this area bordering on the european union are extremely important and that we need the undertakings and proposals outlined by commissioner patten just now to be more effectively implemented than has been the case in recent years .
therefore , should the financial provisions intended for the regions in question be changed , as the european parliament has requested , how will the commission adapt its interventions ?
mr president , five years on from the barcelona conference , it is time to take stock of the situation .
last march , the european parliament approved a resolution which made a critical analysis of the policies and instruments of the partnership , proposing some substantial changes .
in june 2000 , the feira council adopted a common mediterranean strategy and , after proposing and obtaining endorsement for reform of the meda regulation , the commission recently tabled a document on reinvigorating the barcelona process .
nevertheless , the process which commenced in barcelona , based on three pillars - political , economic and cultural - was subject to three constraints , now generally well recognised , and commissioner patten touched upon them in his speech .
i have stressed these aspects because they contain the key to reinvigorating the process , and the enhancement of the barcelona political agenda must be added to all this .
as regards agriculture , i would like to point out that parliament has undertaken to organise a conference next spring .
in fact , the council 's common strategy followed this line .
on the other hand , the euro-mediterranean ministerial conference , which is to open tomorrow in marseilles , is set against the backdrop of a tragic situation which will make europe 's role in the region even more sensitive and lead the union to assume a more substantial political role in the israel-palestine conflict .
the fact that , despite this situation , the 27 partners have confirmed their willingness to meet in marseilles , at least for the moment , is already in itself an indication that all is not lost , although i agree entirely with commissioner patten that the euro-mediterranean partnership policy must not become a hostage to the peace process .
the group of the europe liberal , democrat and reform party obviously supports the commission ' s actions in favour of a mediterranean policy , as outlined five years ago in barcelona , and we want it to be consolidated .
our priority must therefore be to ensure the peace and security of the european union in the mediterranean and we have to make every possible effort to achieve this cooperation and to ensure that the funds allocated are used efficiently , according to what we might call the selfish generosity of the european union .
mr president , we presented the meda report at the beginning of september , and while this report , admittedly , allowed us to note some shortcomings , it was also , more importantly , an opportunity to proclaim loud and clear the determination of both this house and the commission in euro-mediterranean matters .
commissioner patten , i read your article in today ' s issue of le monde .
the fact , moreover , that we carried the motion in this house , with the enormous majority of 502 votes in favour and a paltry 17 against , shows that we are all unanimously in favour of renewing and boosting the euro-mediterranean process .
there are a number of points i would like to clarify , now that the marseilles conference is about to take place , in order to ensure that we get some answers , as it is not enough to repeat ritualistic phrases , given that we are all in agreement .
it seems that at least eur 1 billion is needed annually , but for the moment this sum has not been allocated , and at the same time there is talk of eur 200 million to be taken , supposedly , from the margin relating to appropriations for kosovo and serbia .
the forum that was held in marseilles on 12 november made that quite clear .
next , we must increase the amount of appropriations for regional development in order to encourage relations and trade between regions , but also environmental protection , the fight against terrorism and drugs trafficking , emigration and integration , and to make progress towards human rights , as we have requested .
mr president , commissioner , i share the determination which has been expressed to give a new boost to the euro-mediterranean partnership forthwith .
the peoples of the south are often critical and are concerned about this failure .
i share their impatience , and even their disappointment and their anger , at the delays but also at the inadequacies of this partnership and at the initial damage it has caused .
there are still extreme disparities between the two sides of the mediterranean , which keep the peoples of the south in an explosive economic and social situation , with poverty and unemployment , particularly among young people .
the path leading to an area of shared prosperity has , for the time being , stopped at the association agreements , which are governed by strictly economic and financial interests in denial of the needs of the people .
the spiralling violence in the middle east , the war being waged so violently and resolutely against the palestinian people , whose right to statehood is still being denied by israel , are all threatening the future of the entire region .
these last few days in marseilles , i have observed the great numbers of speakers addressing such comments to the conference of ministers , speaking in favour of cancelling debt and replacing free trade with relations of mutually supportive codevelopment ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , the different areas of the euro-mediterranean dialogue must , in my opinion , be tackled from the social , political and cultural perspectives , in continuation of that process - the euro-mediterranean conference - which was set in motion in barcelona in 1995 when we first started to talk about mediterranean policy , although the complexity of the subject caused some difficulties even then .
this is prompting the europe of national states to form a single political , economic and commercial entity in order to organise and boost a market of over 350 million consumers and set it on a level with other markets .
europe 's economic progress is now under threat from the current globalisation process , and our continent is in serious danger of a recession caused by competition from south-east asia - where the cost of labour is a tenth of the cost of labour in europe - the usa and japan .
the mediterranean policy is now operating in a world of extremely varied interests and latent stabilisation , and it must therefore include certain elements such as the development of peace-keeping initiatives - but it must not , i would stress , be limited to this - and the creation of partnership projects which involve northern and southern europe , precisely because the objective of making the mediterranean an area of dialogue , tolerance and cooperation and a guarantee of peace and stability cannot be achieved without firm political will or without the lasting , well-balanced social and economic development of less-favoured peoples and the social development of the coastal peoples , improving their employment possibilities , in order to put an end to the multitude of problems caused by the tremendous number of emigrants leaving the basin and now affecting all the countries of the union .
mr president , in nice the european union will need to strike a balance between integration and enlargement and in marseilles it will need to strike a balance between its function in central europe and its responsibility in the mediterranean .
we need to set priorities ; in other words , we need to use the enlargement process to strengthen europe from the centre outwards and force a stabilisation process in south-east europe and in the western balkans , but without neglecting the barcelona process , which has been drifting for five years now .
with these conditions in place , it should be possible for the special council in marseilles to reach a consensus which does more than just highlight the fault lines in the eu .
mr president , tomorrow and the following day the euro-mediterranean conference is to be held in marseilles , attended by all the countries that signed the barcelona declaration , and i think that we can congratulate ourselves on this .
however , in all the evaluations that are now being made of five years of the barcelona process , many people think that we can be satisfied simply that the process is continuing , due to the fact that there have been ministerial meetings attended by representatives from israel , the palestinian authority , syria and lebanon , etc .
the evaluation is now a contrasting one and , of course , the strategic development of euro-mediterranean policy cannot depend on a temporary evaluation .
it is continuity over time that can provide results , and positive results will be ultimately measured by the development of the countries of the southern mediterranean .
those countries come up against a great deal of problems finding a place for their development and economic integration in the context of globalisation and we must do everything in our power to help restore balance to a situation characterised by gulfs between north and south .
above all , we need to avoid having to make an evaluation of the application of meda in five years ' time that leads us to conclude that only 26 % have been used .
the second is an essential policy dealing with the human aspect of managing migration flows .
the third is discussion and the quest for progress and consensus in developing a common agricultural policy in the mediterranean , without which we will probably not be able to achieve a positive outcome in the medium term .
however , we must not ignore the fact that the barcelona process has entered a critical stage , caused not only by lack of impetus or a slow down in the european undertaking in respect of the events in the balkans or enlargement , but also by the conditions of tragic open conflict in the mediterranean which are holding back reinvigoration .
i hope that when the conference of ministers of the union meets in marseilles , it will be able to adopt a position on this matter which is coherent with what is always pompously stressed , that human rights must not be violated .
mr president , since the barcelona conference and now on the eve of the marseilles conference , as has already been said , a great deal has taken place in the mediterranean region .
it is true that this conference is going to take place in a context of violence and of a peace crisis as a result of the conflict in the middle east , but it is also true that holding the conference will enable us to keep the flame of the euro-mediterranean process burning and that it should not be contaminated by the tragic conflict .
now more than ever we need to proclaim that only regional cooperation , dialogue with civil society , economic and cultural exchange , solidarity and mutual understanding can make the two shores of the mediterranean a prosperous and peaceful area .
it is a warning call to the european union to play a much more active role in the mediterranean area , which historically and culturally has enriched our european continent .
let us make borders a real filter for crime and criminals , and not a barrier to development , culture or the prosperity of peoples .
the european union needs a new culture of immigration and a better management of migration flows .
the european union is jointly responsible , with the countries of origin , for immigration and for organising those migration flows , which are so necessary for the development of the region .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , every day that passes is punctuated by developments in the current crisis in the middle east and every day that passes is a further indication , as if this were needed , that everything that happens in the south and around the mediterranean is of direct concern to us , and affects our daily lives .
unfortunately , for many years , too , factors such as the enlargement of europe to the east , the balkans crisis and wars have displaced the south in the minds of a great many europeans , hence the repeated delays in mediterranean processes and policies .
the commission and the council claim to want this .
what is much more serious , however , at the very moment when we are calmly exchanging points of view , often very divergent ones , within this chamber , more and more palestinians are being killed .
the european union must , as a matter of urgency , strongly condemn the israeli attacks on the palestinian people , whose demand to live in peace in their own state is a legitimate one and one which must , therefore , be met .
and i have seen that in all these documents on strengthening the barcelona agreement we are forgetting some things .
one of them is that liberalisation , a single market , cannot be established without taking care of some important aspects , such as people and culture or education .
europe needs to think outside the principle of subsidiarity or go beyond it and realise that it needs to provide a great deal of aid in order to raise the level in the recipient countries , among both men and women , not only of basic education but also of minimum education , which in europe is considered to be for all citizens .
with the rise in crude oil prices there is going to be much more pressure on the mediterranean .
also , we cannot demand that european citizens properly implement their environmental policy and not apply this to other countries .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow , wednesday , at 11.30 a.m .
as is known , a proposal was submitted back in may but we had to wait until september before there was a definitive proposal on the table .
this also means that the commission ' s new proposal was worth waiting for , because it sets out in clear and lucid terms how the european commission proposes to deliver aid in future , both with regard to the general regulation for the balkans and with regard to the proposal for the agency in kosovo .
there is now a regulation on the table which , as i see it , equips the european union to deliver aid in an efficient manner and on time , and to put eu funds to good use in the countries of the western balkans .
in this way , and this is very important - i will come back to it again shortly - a good balance has been struck between the commission ' s responsibility on the one hand and the need to involve the member states in some way , on the other .
however , there are two key aspects of policy i would like to focus on .
the first relates - and i am sorry to have to bother the commissioner with this again - to the finances .
the fact that the european union actually spends far more money but is nothing like as high profile , has led many people to conclude that there is a need to substantially raise people ' s awareness of our activities in the balkans .
seen in a positive light , i sometimes think , and hope , that the agency , by the manner in which it has operated to date , and in which it is to function in the future , ought to serve as an example of how aid should be delivered to the balkans , and also to other parts of the world .
the procedures involved are often too complex , but we must not turn a blind eye , nor must we want to - and i hope the member states do not do so either - to their part in this .
delivering aid to the balkans within the framework of cards , to countries such as croatia , albania , and macedonia , demands other special qualities and other capabilities .
let us confine ourselves to this and not dissipate our energies by extending the agency ' s capabilities beyond the borders of former yugoslavia .
after the tragedy that the balkans suffered , these fruits first appeared a few months ago in croatia with free elections and a regime eager to respect human rights , and have now revealed themselves in belgrade , where the citizens have confirmed their desire to live together in peace and freedom and to take their place in the family of europe .
we must not disappoint them in their expectations , and now more than ever these countries need our help .
we must continue this process of stabilising the region and prepare them for a longer-term perspective of integration in the institutions of europe .
in doing this , of course , we are staking our credibility and our own stability .
in addition , there are several measures - i am referring particularly to the cards programme - that should go beyond reconstruction and extend to training , education and the reconstruction of civil society in close collaboration with ngos .
it is vital that ngos should collaborate in this field , and also that there should be some coordination among them , if we really want their action to be more effective and to reach all parts of those regions .
the media in that region have often been responsible for the tragedy they have been through , so it is essential to have a completely free media that acts in accordance with the rules that prevail in our democracies .
it is also very important to make the judiciary really independent .
therefore it is important for the cards programme management committee to be a committee that confines itself to the general lines of multiannual planning and does not try to carry out everyday micro-management at too detailed a scale , because otherwise we may again have the same problems as in the past .
it is also essential to strengthen the role of the european parliament , and i believe that with the amendments , which are likely to be voted for tomorrow , the european parliament will be able to perform a greater consultative role in a process of interinstitutional collaboration .
we have to give more effective and more coordinated aid , gathering together all the scattered bits and pieces .
the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport , which i have the honour of chairing , has endeavoured , through its opinion , to emphasise the importance of this reconstruction work in the balkans as a possible way of integrating these areas into europe as a whole .
the fact that the amendments expressed as an opinion by the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport have been accepted and that unanimity has been achieved is , in my opinion , an important factor which this house should note and take into consideration .
our work has borne fruit .
but i am also happy because i feel that parliament has succeeded , by keeping the pressure on , in turning round a situation that originally left a great deal to be desired .
i then asked the commission to withdraw the proposal .
i am currently working on a report on how funds are being spent in bosnia herzegovina .
it is a follow-up report to a special report by the court of auditors .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the lagendijkand westendorp reports on the agency and the cards programme - it is difficult to distinguish one from the other - base their proposed amendments on the experience gained from their forerunners , the obnova programme and the kosovo agency .
i also feel that duplicate work by the governing board and management board and unnecessary ritual meetings of their members , where it is the director responsible who needs to take the necessary decisions on time , should be avoided .
i hope that parliament 's proposals will be accepted by the commission and the council .
as i understand it , the commissioner also takes the view that this should be an important objective in the cards programme .
i really do hope that the french minister for education , jacques lang , will be able to persuade his cabinet to ensure that the french government does not oppose the inclusion of the objective of education in the cards programme in the next coreper .
so my thanks to all my fellow members who see this as an important objective and i am delighted that we shall be able to bring these countries more in the way of content in the future .
mr president , i wanted to make a number of general comments today about what i would like to call ' the political reconstruction of the balkans region ' .
a great deal of headway has been made in the space of a year and the internal dynamics in a number of countries are at long last enhancing the role of the international community , even though the kosovo crisis is still fresh in the memory .
naturally the all-important question is : what future does kosovo have within yugoslavia ?
perhaps the european union could act as a mediator in this .
they have replaced three politicians who personified the worst aspects of former yugoslavia in the nineties .
the government in zagreb is helping us to think about the future of the region , and making real investments in democracy and stability .
europe must clearly demonstrate that its aid is making a difference , even before the parliamentary elections in serbia .
in the bosnian part , the position of the nationalists has come under attack for the first time ever .
we must concentrate our energies in the physical reconstruction of former yugoslavia , but this will only work if we manage to alter the people ' s frame of mind too .
those politicians who openly work for such a cause deserve not only our admiration , but above all , our support .
the stability of the region will depend on the extent to which the new leaders are able to keep the lid on the national spirit and develop a different kind of mentality .
the reports by mr westendorp and mr lagendijk provide the foundation we need for an efficient approach to the matter .
the aid has been too bureaucratic and too slow in coming , because the commission has been too centralised and management-driven in its work .
there has been too much management in detail , and parliament has been complicit in this on a number of points .
it is very unfortunate that there is no certainty regarding what we have by way of money for serbia next year .
it is also unfortunate that a large number of programmes have been put in the so-called performance reserve .
let us celebrate the visit by the elected serbian president tomorrow by now seriously giving the commission a chance to put the aid we offer onto a new and better footing .
mr president , the aid which we are discussing is yet another instrument of foreign intervention in this highly sensitive region of europe .
these events may well have created a climate of euphoria in leading imperialist circles ; but they know full well that they have not subdued the spirit of resistance in the yugoslavian or any other people .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are all aware that the western balkans present a significant challenge for the european union and the credibility of its foreign policy , due to the scale of our human , political and financial commitment in the region , and also our desire to facilitate stabilisation through the construction , development and finally reintegration of the balkan region into the european family .
it continued with another major event in the form of the victory of democratic forces in the federal republic of yugoslavia and the fall of milosevic .
we indeed hope that the year will end with the consolidation of democracy on 23 december during the parliamentary elections in serbia .
it reacted immediately to the new order in croatia , by undertaking the process that will lead , at the zagreb summit on 24 november , in other words in ten days ' time , to the opening of negotiations aimed at concluding a stabilisation and association agreement with this country .
thinking ahead to the summit in zagreb , we wanted to focus the union ' s action on consolidating democracy and evaluating the stabilisation and association process .
we should like to highlight the value of the process , for example by marking the conclusion of negotiations of the first stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia during the zagreb summit , or confirming an individual approach that is adapted to each country ' s particular characteristics and , as i have already said , by outlining the prospects the process holds for each of us .
the summit will also aim to consolidate democracy in the fry , support the process of reconciliation between these countries and neighbouring countries , and encourage the development of reliable cooperation between the countries in the region .
therefore , the union , without waiting for the stabilisation and association agreements to be implemented , will remind the five countries concerned that it expects them , as of now , to conclude regional cooperation agreements between themselves .
such agreements , that were provided for within the framework of the stabilisation and association agreements , should , in our view , include the initiation of political dialogue , a regional free trade area , as well as close collaboration in the field of justice and home affairs , in particular with a view to strengthening the judiciary and its independence in the fight against organised crime , corruption , money laundering and all other forms of criminal trafficking .
any rapprochement with the european union is , in fact , closely linked , in the eyes of the council , to the development of regional cooperation .
examination of the reports by mr westendorp y cabeza and mr lagendijk on proposals for a regulation concerning a framework programme on the one hand , and the european agency for reconstruction on the other , provide us with an opportunity to assess the scale of the support that the union intends to give the western balkans in relation to the stabilisation and association process .
the presidency-in-office , like you , would like this framework programme to implement the principles of the reform of the management of external aid : fewer procedures , greater coordination out in the field , fewer outstanding commitments .
similarly , we support the extension to the federal republic of yugoslavia of the activity of the european agency for reconstruction , which proved its effectiveness in kosovo .
the council presidency aims to reach an agreement on the proposals for a regulation regarding the cards programme and the european agency for reconstruction during the general affairs council at the end of november , in other words next week , so as to be able to make an announcement at zagreb on 24 november .
this amount , which will include assistance for the federal republic of yugoslavia , will result from a unanimous decision regarding the way in which the eur 10 billion available under the ceiling of heading 4 will be distributed between the two aid programmes , meda ii and cards , the adoption of which will feature among our priorities .
lastly , during the general affairs council on 18 september , the presidency-in-office adopted asymmetric commercial preferences for the benefit of those countries that are participating in the stabilisation and association process .
these measures accord preferential access to the community market for agricultural and industrial products produced by these countries .
the french presidency set itself ambitious targets as regards the western balkans which are close to being achieved : the development of the stabilisation and association process , the adoption of the cards programme , the adoption of asymmetric commercial preferences , to mention but the more noteworthy community measures .
the long-awaited victory of democracy in croatia , and then in the federal republic of yugoslavia , forces the european union , as we are well aware , to take things much further .
mr president , my initial impression of president kostunica is that he has been very pragmatic in his political dealings since he assumed power in the federal republic of yugoslavia .
he has consolidated his victory but has equally been tactful in his relations with other leaders in the region .
i hope that president kostunica and his supporters will steadily consolidate their position as the new democratic leadership in the federal republic of yugoslavia at all political levels .
elections for the serbian parliament are scheduled to take place on 23 december .
i welcome the fact that president kostunica has acknowledged the importance of cooperating with the war crimes tribunal in the hague .
an invitation has been extended to president kostunica to participate , as the new president of yugoslavia , at the forthcoming zagreb summit .
it is very important to assure the other balkan participants that the return of yugoslavia to the international community will in no way lessen their support from the european union .
other objectives of the zagreb summit must include an announcement of the community assistance and reconstruction , democratisation and stabilisation programmes for the western balkans , a confirmation of the progressive establishment of a free trading zone between the european union and the western balkans and a commitment by the countries in the region for regional cooperation and to putting in place a free trading regime between them .
this is an important new objective in the cards programme .
the commission is in favour and i should like very much to know if the council is too .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0553 / 2000 ) .
during the european council , within the framework of the report on the development of european facilities for military and civilian crisis management , it was suggested that rapid financing mechanisms , such as the creation by the commission of a rapid reaction fund , should be set up to speed up the provision of finance to support european union activities , to contribute to operations run by other international organisations and to fund ngo activities , where appropriate .
it was first examined on 6 november .
the aim is to adopt a regulation as soon as possible but , in order to achieve this , the council must have parliament ' s opinion in due form .
mr president-in-office , you want parliament 's opinion and we understand you propose taking a decision next month in december .
if i tell you that parliament will be debating this in january , i should like to know if you will wait for our opinion before you take your decision ?
i can only repeat what i said in the conclusion of my reply , namely that we aim to adopt a regulation as soon as possible , but , in order to do so , the council has to have the european parliament ' s opinion in due form .
question no 2 by ( h-0819 / 00 ) : subject : western sahara on 13-15 september a delegation from the european parliament ' s intergroup on peace for the sahrawi people , in which i participated , visited the sahrawi refugee camps in south-eastern algeria .
minurso has done remarkable work in identifying people with a view to drawing up electoral lists prior to the holding of the referendum on self-determination referred to in the un secretary-general ' s settlement plan signed by the moroccan government and the polisario front .
the delegation noted the terrible living conditions of the refugees .
the constant postponement of the referendum , and the failure of negotiations in berlin on 28 september 2000 , are raising serious concerns and engendering deep disappointment among the people .
question no 3 by ( h-0846 / 00 ) : subject : referendum on self-determination for western sahara the talks under way between the international mediator , un secretary general special envoy james baker , and the parties in dispute over the holding of a referendum on self determination for western sahara , are in a state of deadlock .
at the meeting held on 28 september in berlin , the moroccan authorities suggested that they might end their support for the peace plan for organisation of the referendum .
the council seeks to help foster a climate of confidence between the parties involved and ensure that this is achieved .
resolving the conflict in the western sahara will help bring stability to the maghreb and aid its economic and social development .
both parties have just been granted a new deadline of four months - by resolution 1324 - to try and make some progress on both counts .
in addition to this , eur 9 million if aid is being provided as of november 2000 for a period of eight months .
i myself have visited the camps at tindouf where this extremely difficult situation has been going on for 25 years .
at the end of the meeting held in berlin on 28 september 2000 , as you will be aware , the minister for foreign affairs of morocco made a speech in which he reasserted his willingness to do everything possible in order to find a sustainable and definitive solution .
mr rabat now seems to have realised that this proposal did not meet either the un secretary-general or his special envoy ' s expectations , and that it should have formed the basis for seeking a just and definitive solution to the problem .
this is the message we have given our counterparts in morocco .
mr president , mr president-in-office , i think the eu would have far more influence in the maghreb if there were stronger links with the reform process in morocco .
i can simply point out the fact that france and germany - and here i am no longer speaking as president-in-office of the council - raised these questions during a bilateral summit in vittel last week , where it was decided to form a working group in order to find a solution to the problem .
i asked what consultations took place between the council , the french presidency and the standing working group of experts .
i asked that question because just three weeks after the council 's expert group , the standing working group on the safe transport of radioactive materials , published a report in april 1998 giving a clean bill of health to the way nuclear wastes were transported , the transports were found to be contaminated , as the minister very well knows .
question no 5 by ( h-0826 / 00 ) : subject : eu initiatives in dispute between armenia and azerbaijan recently , following many years of conflict between armenia and azerbaijan - which have resulted in devastating economic stagnation and severe damage to the social fabric of the two countries - there have been signs of reciprocal attempts at rapprochement to break the current deadlock between the two countries and embark on reconstruction .
according to the international herald tribune of 7 september 2000 , the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan , robert kocharian and heydar aliyev respectively , have had at least 11 meetings with each other in recent times .
as you will be aware , the european union supports the mediation efforts currently in progress with a view to finding a political solution to all of the conflicts in the region , on the basis of respect for the territorial integrity of the states concerned and an appropriate degree of autonomy .
the european union remains convinced that the minsk group of the osce has a central role to play in finding a solution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict , in spite of the fact that the solutions put forward by this group in 1997 and 1998 were both rejected by erevan and baku .
the european union is also using all of the instruments at its disposal within the framework of the partnership and cooperation agreement to help improve relations between the two countries .
thanks to the various opportunities for cooperation , it has been possible to establish regular political dialogue with the aim of facilitating exchanges between armenia and azerbaijan .
at the same time , the union continues to provide substantial material aid to both countries through its various programmes , in particular its tacis programme .
it has offered to finance cross-border projects of common interest in an attempt to re-establish good neighbourly relations between the two countries .
the commitment of the european union has been publicly acknowledged by armenia and azerbaijan , who have both asserted their willingness to work towards a rapprochement between their countries and the european union .
and a european union which - from what i have read in the newspapers - recently changed its strategy on its energy problems and is now looking more towards the former soviet union - with all the implications which that has for the region in general - obviously cannot remain passive and fail to react to developments .
so from this point of view , and because , of course , the question was not asked in order to elicit an expression of satisfaction that everything is just fine but in order to express a concern , i think that it could be used as the starting point for an integrated policy , such as that which we have been debating recently for the balkans ; in other words , a new stability agreement for the caucasus , at the political initiative of the european union and with political objectives and priorities concerning development , autonomy and democracy in this region .
mr president , i shall start by reiterating the question put by mr souladakis , i.e .
as the author is not present , question no 6 lapses .
the european council in feira last june called upon the council to speed up the implementation of measures combating illegal rings , provided for in the conclusions of the tampere european council of october 1999 .
the measures to which the author of the question refers comprise a draft council directive aimed at defining the concept of the facilitation of unauthorised entry , movement and residence and a draft framework decision designed specifically to strengthen the penal framework combating the facilitation of unauthorised entry and illegal residence as defined therein .
these texts , which have been submitted to the european parliament for consultation , are currently being examined by the relevant groups within the council .
the question raised therefore provides the presidency-in-office with an opportunity to clarify several points .
i should also like to add that these two texts focus , in particular , on strengthening the framework of criminal law in order to fight organised rings of facilitators .
question no 8 by ( h-0836 / 00 ) : subject : ' crimes of honour ' in turkey every year , dozens of women fall victim to ' crimes of honour ' in turkey .
such practices appear to be in sharp decline and , we are told , only occur sporadically in rural areas .
however , these crimes continue to be a source of concern for the council as they are often committed in the most appalling circumstances .
the report that was adopted by the turkish cabinet on 21 september as a reform programme contains several planned amendments to the law , such as the inclusion of measures in the civil code that are designed to enhance effective equality between men and women in social and educational fields , ways to better combat domestic violence by training judges that specialise in family matters and , lastly , measures to prevent people that have committed crimes of honour from serving reduced sentences .
rest assured that the council will remain particularly vigilant as to the implementation of these measures that are in line with the copenhagen criteria , as discussed at length earlier on .
in any case , the issue of crimes of honour is not a problem that is specific to turkey , as these crimes occur in many other places around the world .
the council has therefore supported the dutch initiative aimed at the introduction this year , within the framework of the third committee of the united nations general assembly , of a draft resolution against these crimes , which is still in the process of being examined .
my question to the council is this : are you prepared to make efforts to put a stop to the spiral of violence by , for example , demanding that muslim leaders officially distance themselves from crimes of honour ?
question no 9 by ( h-0839 / 00 ) : subject : attitude of french european affairs minister , pierre moscovici , to austria in an interview with the french tv channel france 3 , the french european affairs minister , pierre moscovici , affirmed yet again his rejection of the austrian federal government .
on the other hand , and speaking on a more personal level , i can confirm that the statements this minister made on france 3 clearly reflect his personal opinion on the matter .
mr president , mr president-in-office , it is clear from your reply that you personally are holding the council to ransom .
it is precisely because the other 14 member states disapproved that they imposed sanctions against it .
i should like to mention that the president of the republic will be accompanied , as is usually the case , by one of his government ministers , either the minister for foreign affairs or myself .
next week , a meeting of the european conference will take place on my invitation in france , in other words a meeting with the candidate countries .
my question to the president-in-office is this : how is it that extreme right-wing parties are not banned in france and what is the president-in-office 's opinion of extreme left-wing parties in government ?
if , for example , and here i am talking as a minister , france was to elect an extreme right-wing party to office tomorrow , i would hope that the other countries would take measures against it similar to those taken against austria .
i shall answer your first point very clearly .
in this regard , several countries , including austria , have put forward proposals to amend article 7 of the treaty on european union , in order to set up a prevention and warning mechanism which would mean that a country considered to be out of step with the values of the european union can receive recommendations while at the same time having its point of view heard .
as regards the other points , i have not used the words ' extreme left ' and ' extreme right ' here because this would run the risk of a debate on the definition of both notions .
as regards the accession partnership with turkey to which you referred , the commission put forward its proposals on 8 november at the same time as it submitted its report on the progress made by each of the 13 applicant states regarding their application for membership .
secondly , how can the council possibly accept a text in which the long-term objectives scarcely mention the helsinki position on border disputes between a candidate country and a member state of the european union ?
on the issue of minorities and , in particular , the kurdish question , i think that anyone listening to the debate which took place earlier will be well aware that both the commission and the council are aware of these issues and have duly taken them into consideration .
i should like to remind you that this political dialogue constitutes , along with the future accession partnership , one of the elements in turkey ' s pre-accession strategy , which was set out on this occasion .
next monday ' s general affairs council on 20 november will specifically debate the proposal for an accession partnership that the commission has just put forward , which contains extremely clear , explicit , specific references to the helsinki conclusions .
in other words , is it possible that this partnership will be furthered and that turkey will join the european union without ceasing to occupy cyprus and removing its settlers from cyprus ?
i did not say that it is true that there is an imperialist regime in turkey , but i did say that if the european union accepted this rationale , in other words , the possibility of turkey joining the european union while it still occupied a large part of cyprus , you cannot blame us for considering the european union ' s actions as imperialist .
as the author is not present , question no 11 lapses .
even though it is difficult at present to envisage the final details of such an agreement , it seems clear that we need to establish a framework for cooperation and partnership in the area of fisheries that is broader than the previous agreement , and extend it to encompass all of the fisheries sector .
the agreement will also take into consideration the need to ensure the sustainable use of resources and aid the development of the moroccan fisheries sector .
mr president , i am very grateful to the president of the council for such a positive and to some extent optimistic and encouraging answer .
it must be remembered that the fisheries agreement with morocco is much more than a simple fisheries agreement ; as he knows , if this agreement were not reached , bearing in mind its significance , this fact might conceal a deterioration in the relations between the european union and morocco .
mr president-in-office of the council , it is essential that the french presidency should push hard along this home straight because commissioner fischler lacks the mediterranean imagination needed to be able to secure an agreement .
he is less likely to succeed in something which is purely mediterranean , than pitres , a village up in the alpujarra mountains in granada , is in getting its own port , or even the expansion of its port .
in view of this situation , my question is whether the french presidency , which does have the will and the imagination , will make it possible for us to achieve a fisheries agreement , which is now vital after eleven months of having our fleet tied up .
the commissioner for agriculture , rural development and fisheries acts on behalf of all of the european union , irrespective of whether he comes from the north , south , east or west .
commissioner fischler held several meetings with the highest authorities in morocco .
two technical meetings took place in rabat on 25 july 2000 and in brussels on 27 and 28 september 1999 .
these meetings seem to have revived the negotiation process and led to another meeting with a moroccan delegation on 30 october 2000 , therefore very recently .
it is worth pointing out that the principle of the mutual recognition of criminal decisions , in accordance with the conclusions of the tampere european council , must make it possible to reinforce cooperation between member states while at the same time reinforcing the protection of human rights .
the principle of the mutual recognition of criminal decisions presupposes the reciprocal confidence of member states in their own criminal justice systems .
the european union member states have a shared commitment to the principles of freedom , democracy , respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms , as well as the rule of law .
it is by remaining attentive to these values enshrined in the treaty on european union that the council will continue its work in the area of the mutual recognition of criminal decisions .
mr president , i have on my desk a document which was presented to one of my constituents in longuenesse jail in the north of france three months after his first detention there on suspicion of a drugs offence .
these are citizens from scotland where after 110 days of detention any person charged with an offence must either be brought to trial or released and never again charged with that offence .
mr president , my point of order is that there remain twenty minutes of question time , there are very few members in the house and there is no risk of exceeding time .
in this context , the council attaches the greatest priority to pushing this work forward in the following areas : the promotion of renewable energy sources , energy efficiency , the security of energy supplies and the diversification of energy sources .
the competent bodies of the council are currently working on a proposal to promote electricity from this renewable energy sources with a view to an agreement being reached at the next council meeting in december , provided the european parliament has given its opinion in due time .
as to energy efficiency , the commission presented an action plan during last may ' s council meeting .
furthermore , in the communication adopted on 4 october 2000 on the european union ' s oil supply , the commission indicated that , at the european council of goteborg , it was planning to present a plan to save energy and to promote the diversification of energy sources , which should help to boost energy efficiency , especially in buildings and transport .
as regards the security of energy supplies , the commission is planning to present a green paper , in november 2000 , on the future and place of the different energy sources in the context of improving the security of the energy supply of the european union .
this communication will tackle both nuclear energy and renewable energies .
what is more , the presidency has convened a conference on the security of supplies for 24 november 2000 in paris .
mr president-in-office of the council , i will not conceal from you that my question was designed first and foremost to elicit a list of projects and a calendar from you .
some of my fellow members have suggested an idea , which i too endorse , of investigating or drawing up plans towards , for example , a policy imposing the euro as the sole means of paying for oil in certain countries .
question no 15 by ( h-0858 / 00 ) : subject : new us bill enforcing embargo on cuba a new bill being voted on in the usa has given rise to a storm of protest both in cuba and in european .
the position of the european union on the extra-territorial measures decreed by the united states has not changed .
in the same vein , at the time of the vote on the resolution on the embargo as part of the third commission of the general assembly of the united nations which met on 9 november 2000 , we launched an appeal to the cuban authorities to cooperate fully with international organisations defending human rights .
the european union notes with satisfaction that cuba has continued to be very active in various international and regional forums .
it also recognises that measures have been taken by the cuban government to better integrate the country into the region economically .
finally , it is with concern that the european union takes note of the findings of the united nations ' agencies and programmes on the ground .
i recalled the very clear differences between the united states and europe regarding the extra-territorial measures decreed by the united states .
i noted with satisfaction , on behalf of the council , that cuba had continued to be very active in various international and regional forums .
i recognised that measures had been taken by the cuban government to better integrate their country economically into the region and reaffirmed europe ' s willingness to be cuba ' s partner in this process .
finally , i recalled that it was with concern that the european union took note of the observations made by the united nations ' agencies and programmes on the ground and deplored the negative , and often tragic , repercussions of the us economic embargo as they affected the cuban population .
this case has not , in any case , been brought up in the council of the european union .
more generally , issues relating to the settlement of the disputes between greece and turkey are included in the reinforced policy dialogue in the context of turkey ' s pre-accession strategy and the accession partnership the commission has just proposed and which the french presidency - as i can confirm - hopes will be adopted quickly .
moreover , the council is gratified that , at their meeting in budapest on 31 october , the turkish and greek foreign ministers agreed to adopt confidence building measures in the context of nato , and to do so bilaterally .
fourthly and finally , does he not think that his reply is an encouragement to turkey , a candidate country for membership of the european union , to continue its present policy of contesting the sovereign rights of greece , a member of the european union and that he has therefore indirectly admitted that there are border disputes which must be resolved , as we have said , on the basis of international conventions ?
that is the mandate the council has given itself for the next phase in the examination of this candidacy , which has already been discussed at length and in detail today .
the sums budgeted for the balkans should put us in mind , in terms of quality and quantity , of a new marshall plan and should act as a springboard to a new beginning in the countries of the western balkans .
nor should we forget that the countries of the western balkans are not third countries , they are candidate countries for membership of the european union and we must treat them as such .
the exception is the reconstruction agency which has its headquarters in thessaloniki and an operational centre in kosovo .
commissioner and the few honourable members who have found their way here , i must , of course , start by congratulating the rapporteurs on their work and excellent cooperation , especially the rapporteur who is here in the house .
i think that the commission and council are also keen for us to work consistently with the means at our disposal over coming years to achieve these objectives .
the second issue which i would like to touch on concerns the strategy in the region .
we must look on this region as a region of europe and not as a region of antagonism between the countries and the national policies of europe or america .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the excellent reports which they have tabled today .
the message sent by parliament through these documents comes across loud and clear .
we must bear in mind that there is still a long way to go along the road to peace in the balkans and that potential friction points still exist which could well set the whole process back again .
but this region , the most troubled region of europe , has never held such hope as it does now .
the virtually despotic croatian system has been replaced with a pro-west democratic system .
the vulnerable countries surrounding the remains of yugoslavia have weathered the crisis , and , what is more , bulgaria , albania and macedonia have even made economic progress .
in the fine changes of balance currently governing the balkan region , the responsibility of the european union is great , enormous , and when we say the union we mean the member states but also the european and parliament .
the european commission must assume responsibility for the smooth running of these programmes , and this is the primary objective of the two reports which are to be put to the vote tomorrow .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in the texts before us , the commission and parliament have put a figure of eur 4 billion on the war damage caused by the nato bombings in serbia alone , excluding kosovo , thereby indirectly admitting that they were to blame for some of the material war crimes .
i totally endorse all the objectives which he set out .
that summit is taking place in rather happier conditions than we perhaps imagined when the presidency first conceived of it .
these two proposals respond to two key union priorities : providing assistance to southeastern europe and providing it as rapidly and as efficiently as possible .
the european councils of lisbon and feira underlined the importance that the union gives to the integration of this region into the economic and political mainstream of europe .
the return of democracy to serbia , thanks to the determination and courage of the serb people and the democratic forces there , offers the chance now of building prosperity across the whole region .
the reform of external assistance which the commission adopted on 16 may demonstrates our determination to improve radically the speed , quality and visibility of external assistance .
the figures bear this out : 84 % of the funds allocated for reconstruction under obnova - in 1998 to 2000 eur 444.5 million - had been committed by the end of october 2000 .
seventy percent of the funds committed had been contracted and 43 % of the contracted funds had been paid .
we have achieved rapid results in serbia too , where the commission , in the space of just over four weeks , has drawn up an emergency assistance programme worth in total eur 200 million .
our reforms have started to bring results too in bosnia , where the implementation of assistance , in terms of amounts contracted and disbursed has improved dramatically since our delegation in sarajevo was reinforced last year and authority was delegated to it .
the results that have been achieved are extremely encouraging .
these are the results of which the european parliament too can be proud .
it was the european parliament that sounded the alarm about weak management in bosnia .
it was parliament which supported the commission 's proposal to create the european agency for reconstruction .
it was parliament which insisted on a single regulatory framework for assistance to the region and it was parliament , in its role as budgetary authority , which made sure that funds were made available for emergency assistance for serbia , without delay .
that is the purpose of these two proposals .
and it also proposes simple decision arrangements for programmes run by the european reconstruction agency .
let me take up a number of the broad points that have been raised by parliament , first the role of the commission and its financial responsibilities in relation to the running of the agency .
the commission takes very seriously its responsibilities for the implementation of the community budget .
in the same spirit we can accept the proposal to include a reference to the feira european council conclusions in the preamble to the regulation .
parliament 's resolution on the commission 's communication on the stabilisation and association process also deserves to be mentioned in the preamble .
to be clear : we can accept the spirit , provided changes can be made in certain cases to the wording , of amendments nos 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 , 7 , the first part of 11 , the first part of 13 , 16 partially , 17 , 18 , 19 partially and 20 , 21 , 24 , 28 in the first part , 31 and partially 37 .
the commission 's position on the overall sum we estimated was necessary for the region , the so-called financial reference amount and its compatibility with the financial perspectives , is well-known .
that may be regarded by some members of some councils as being a touch brutal in its assessment of the powers of the council but it is entirely true .
we have to deal with finite budgets but i very much hope that the budget which is available for the external actions of the european union reflects the political priorities of the european union .
i should have thought , in particular , that the experience of the last two months has shown that the commission 's proposal on financing was not as eccentric as some people suggested at the time .
our main aim is to clarify the role of the governing board .
according to the new regulation the commission will be permitted to adopt programmes proposed by the agency without having to consult the management committee .
let me make it clear that responsibility for the formal adoption of the programmes remains with the commission .
it is the commission that decides on the desirability of these programmes ; it is the commission which is responsible for the implementation of the budget ; it is the commission which adopts the programmes .
a number of amendments seek to ensure that the agency acts under the direct and sole responsibility of the commission and thereby to ensure that the commission is solely responsible for the agency 's management before the european parliament , the court of auditors and olaf .
i would like to thank parliament for the sensible and pragmatic way it has accepted the current structure of the agency .
i know parliament 's views on this issue and the commission will take these into account in the design of any future executive agencies .
the language regime is a further sensitive issue .
we can accept those amendments which are designed to remove the requirement for a further council decision to extend the mandate of the agency to the whole of the fry .
i can accept , too , those amendments which refer to the general affairs decision of 9 october , to cooperation with ngos , to the restoration of civil society and the rule of law , to the payment for services provided by the agency , to third parties , to the possibility of creating further operational centres , to the responsibility of the director for the implementation of the work programme and the structure of the agency 's budget .
this means that we can accept the spirit , provided changes can be made in certain cases to the wording , of amendment nos 1 , 2 , 6 , 8 , 10 in part , 11 , 37 , 16 , 27 and 33 .
this concerns amendments nos 29 and 30 .
let me reiterate my thanks to parliament for its hard work on these issues .
this proposal should allow us to take advantage of the new opportunity we have , to make a decisive contribution as the european union to lasting peace and prosperity across the whole region .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 p.m .
before reporting on the third asem summit and evaluating its results , let me briefly say a word about the asem process .
the challenge for the third summit in seoul was to deepen the asem process both for governmental participants and for the broader public .
we outlined our goals for asem iii in our working party , we discussed it with the european parliament before the summit on two occasions in the asean working party and in the plenary which resulted , i believe , in your resolution of 5 october , the aims of which we not only took into account , but also managed to achieve in most cases .
in addition to adopting three important documents , the leaders of the summit actively engaged in discussion of sensitive issues like human rights , the south china sea , east timor and burma .
leaders agreed to an expanded and updated asia-europe cooperation framework 2000 which forms the work programme for the coming decade .
the summit adopted the separate seoul declaration for peace on the korean peninsula , welcoming the inter-korean summit in june , urging both sides to continue building on its success and underlining the importance of engaging the democratic people 's republic of korea in multilateral dialogue .
leaders also confirmed the preparation of voluntary annual reports on the status of efforts to overcome barriers to trade as identified under the trade facilitation action plan .
in the social and cultural field , leaders recognised the vital importance of better educational links with specific initiatives for promoting mutual awareness , including an enhancement of inter-university cooperation and electronic networking between schools .
in the related people-to-people field , the principle of opening the asem process to a larger segment of civil society was maintained , although the ngo initiative to establish a social forum could not be realised because of the resistance of certain asian partners .
i am sure parliament can see these results are in line with the resolution of 5 october which i mentioned earlier .
finally , leaders agreed to encourage an intensification of contacts among parliamentarians as set out in the cooperation framework .
i think that reminded us in europe of the important role that we have in asia , not just in economic and trade terms , though it has to be said that one of the reasons for asia 's recovery has been that we have kept our word to keep our markets open to asian exports over the last two years .
we have kept our word in economic and commercial matters which , among other things , encourages asia to take us rather more seriously .
it is important to remember that we also have a political role in asia , not just in our advocacy of democracy and good governance , but also in the contribution we can make in the korean peninsula and elsewhere to stability and security for the future .
the asem process is an important one .
the process is developing and strengthening with time and i look forward to the next asem meeting in denmark in a couple of years ' time when i am sure we will be able to build on the progress already achieved .
commissioner , first i agree with your reading that the asem process is hugely important .
i think that it is our job here in parliament to follow up on what the european side generously included in the conclusions , namely cooperation between the european parliament and the parliaments of the countries in asia , following the first asem conference held in strasbourg a few years ago .
what is more important is what was not adopted .
we could have done so much more in terms of financial stability , trade and investments , and infrastructure .
things were said but they have not found their way into the projects that were agreed , not even in terms of the considerable reserve , for example , although this could easily have been done .
we find it incomprehensible that the secretariat for the fellowship programme is to be located in seoul .
what we want to know is whether our ministers have given asem due consideration .
the european commission deserves our support because we are convinced it is going about things the right way .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday .
the commission ' s communication confines itself to dealing with those aspects relating to the powers of the community and member states in tasks arising from their participation in those organisations .
it must , however , obey the same basic principles from a legal and institutional point of view .
in future the commission must not confine itself to being a mere figurehead : it must unequivocally and specifically take up all aspects of the community 's participation in these regional organisations , representing it , monitoring the transmission and verification of data , participating in scientific fora , and in general guiding community action , including monitoring the fishing carried out in the context of these organisations .
the monitoring of fisheries affects the jurisdiction of the member states and hence to a certain extent the core of their sovereignty .
in view of the growing importance of the regional fisheries organisations ( rfo ) , the european union must fully exercise its powers in fisheries matters , but this raises a problem above all of human and material resources .
similarly , if the community is a contracting party in the rfos , it must behave accordingly and perform the role required of it .
the implementation of this principle has financial implications and requires legal changes and , possibly , sacrificing a certain amount of sovereignty ; but if a particular model of political integration is chosen the means must be provided for that model to be put into practice .
the rapporteur has understood their importance perfectly and has drawn up an excellent report , which highlights the real weakness of the communication .
similarly , the commission has the obligation not only to properly represent us in the international maritime sphere but also to take the initiative .
mr president , i thank the rapporteur and the commissioner .
the regional fisheries organisations and the community 's participation in them is an important issue .
reform of the cfp will be critical but getting the right reforms will be even more important .
the fisheries management scheme would involve all interest groups in a particular region .
regional fisheries organisations provided a role on an international scale and regional or zonal management can make the global become local .
because europe ' s member states are obsessed with disputes in community waters , they forget , in practical terms , that fishing has a worldwide dimension , in terms of both the conservation of marine stocks and production and also the markets and the nature of the fleets .
as a result , some countries in the union , such as galicia , which i represent , are affected particularly badly by this situation and by the consequent lack of human and material resources afflicting the european commission in its implementation of the common policy for regional fishing organisations .
we are backing the regional fisheries organisations ; we are asking for more regional fisheries organisations and for the commission to have more weight in them .
to support the united nations position in both the 1982 convention and the new york one , which has been mentioned here , we must maintain a very active presence in these organisations in favour of responsible fishing .
we are a budgetary authority and i believe we should fund this line , because in these organisations and in these waters we are staking a lot on the future of fisheries in the coming years .
it has also been the source of tremendous disagreement between the fishermen , on one hand , and the scientists , on the other .
that is why i believe there is a tremendous role for the commission to play in going out there and encouraging the fishermen to come forward and cooperate with it and come forward with a solution that we can all agree to .
in exercising their sovereign rights as flag states , they must provide the necessary human , financial and material resources needed in order for the community to meet its international obligations .
the commission should concentrate on its own job , which is to monitor and coordinate the implementation of controls in the regional fisheries organisations by the member states .
i should like to reiterate two fundamental points here .
that means that we shall have plenty of opportunity here next year to discuss these issues in depth .
the commission has always spoken out here in favour of the rules for cooperation between parliament and the commission and has always adhered to the rules of the interinstitutional agreement .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
between 1998 and 2000 , production surged disproportionately , with an increase of 20 million head of pigs , reaching an annual total of 205 million pigs slaughtered in the european union .
ladies and gentlemen , under these conditions , the problem concerns less the future of production than the future of producers .
that is why , fully aware of the extent of the problem , on the basis of my report the committee on agriculture and rural development introduced amendments to make this proposal more attractive and more effective .
commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , these are the solutions advocated by the committee on agriculture and rural development .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , as shadow rapporteur for the garot report on the common organisation of the market in pigmeat , i should like once again here to make clear reference to the shadow side of the report .
the report , which basically makes provision for a compensation fund for pigfarmers , and hence goes beyond the commission proposal , was adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development .
mr president , the commission proposal recognises that the pigmeat market in the european union is subject to cyclical movements , with periods of balanced supply and satisfactory prices followed by periods of plentiful supply when prices plummet .
the result is the disappearance of family holdings , whose only solution is to close down or to move into what is known as integrated production , in other words production in which the producers lose their independence as farmers and join a business structure - such as distribution chains or supermarkets - which dictates production plans to them in exchange for a certain economic stability .
what the proposal calls a regulatory mechanism consists of authorising a member state that so wishes to establish a fund financed by those producers who join it on a voluntary basis for a minimum of five years , on the undertaking that they do not increase their stock .
if subsidised by the eu , the regulatory fund proposed in mr garot ' s report may well be of short-term benefit to small producers and help keep them artificially alive at the expense of larger and more productive producers who are , of course , the future for pigmeat production here in europe .
this objective suits me fine and , as i say , if we had applied it in other organisations of the market , we would have a very different structure today .
mr president , at a time when food safety is more than ever on the agenda and , above all , at a time when the entire meat industry in europe is affected by mad cow disease , it is especially important that the reform of the com in pigmeat is adopted without delay .
but this proposal would be totally inadequate if it was possible for member states to reject these regulatory systems and if the reserves used to maintain revenues in a period of crisis were drawn solely from producer contributions , as this would lead to a two-speed production in pigmeat .
the current com in pigmeat is extremely flimsy and much too hesitant .
this planned reform is the first remotely significant reform that the commission has proposed since 1975 .
the amendments introduced by the committee on agriculture and rural development at the instigation of georges garot , whom i must congratulate on his work , transforms this limited text into a wide-ranging one .
the participation of all member states in this new system will be compulsory .
the participation of the community budget is also essential since , without it , those joining one of these regulatory funds would simply be faced with constraints and the system would not be attractive at all .
that is why our rapporteur proposes that the european union should make a greater commitment by co-financing the regulatory funds .
in this way , far from creating an exceptional system from the standpoint of international practice , with this flexible system of preventing and managing crises we would be moving , at reasonable cost , towards what is practised in certain third countries , such as the insurance-cum-income systems in force in the united states and canada .
we therefore support the proposal by the commission , as profoundly amended by the work of the committee on agriculture and rural development , and will be voting in favour of the garot report .
this fund may be just the instrument to reduce pigfarmers ' losses in times of crisis .
the pig crises in 1998 and 1999 demonstrate the inadequacy of instruments such as private stocking and the export refunds of the common organisation of the market in pigmeat at the time .
in my view , the basic principle of eu financing should apply to common organisations of the market , including the common organisation of the market in pigmeat .
the proposal makes provision for the fund to be set up by the member states .
mr president , first of all , it would be totally wrong of us to have come here tonight to either criticise the report or the commission for coming forward with the proposal .
i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report .
i have extremely serious reservations as to whether it can help the pig farmer in either the short term or long term .
co-financing is one aspect , but i have a horrible suspicion that would perhaps create an uneven playing field in many countries throughout the european union .
i have to ask the commissioner - because this is the one thing that might be useful for some of us - whether this proposal will be mandatory on the member states ?
when the price has been low then the family is not doing well .
it is a question of balance .
let us look at how we can best support the industry in the longer-term .
the crises in the pig sector which , thank god , we have since overcome , were in fact what prompted the commission proposal in the first place .
what we are discussing is an instrument to support farmers ' incomes in times of crisis .
the commission proposal gives member states the choice of whether or not they wish to set up a fund , whereas the proposed amendment makes it compulsory for all member states .
then there is the question of including specialist breeders in the proposed system , as stated in proposed amendments nos 7 and 13 .
the commission cannot accept proposed amendment no 16 because this amendment would interfere drastically with the freedom of decision of farmers who decide not to participate in the fund , in order to retain their freedom .
the planned reduction in production for each member state depending on previous production sounds suspiciously like a quota regulation .
as far as adjusting aid on the basis of the number of animals is concerned , may i point out that the commission proposal already makes provision for a legal basis for just such a procedure .
but the title reads " on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation ( eec ) no 2759 / 75 on the common organisation of the market in pigmeat . "
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.10 p.m. )
court of auditors ' annual report for 1999 the next item is the presentation of the court of auditor ' s annual report for 1999 .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of the members of the court of auditors i would like to thank you all for inviting me to present the 23rd annual report of the court .
as in previous years , this presentation marks the start of the discharge procedure for the 1999 financial year .
the report follows the format used for the past two years with chapters covering revenue in each of the expenditure areas under the headings of the financial perspective .
the different chapters of the annual report address four main concerns .
firstly , there is an analysis of the budgetary implementation of the budgetary management practices within the specific financial headings .
you will find that the court has paid more attention to the follow-up to previous observations , in response to the demands expressed by this parliament .
thirdly , in response to the request of the european parliament , the court has expanded its audit work on the statement of assurance and now provides additional information per area of expenditure in each chapter .
since the last discharge procedure the court has adopted 24 special reports containing the results of audits which focus on a wide range of specific areas in which the community 's financial management can be improved .
although these reports are not part of today 's presentation , they are to be taken into account in the discharge procedure .
the gross national product-based resources represent 43 % of this total .
the value added tax-based resources represent 36 % and the traditional own resources are 15 % of the total .
in the customs area the court reports on the complexity and variable application of the outward processing procedure .
this is 96 % and 92 % respectively of the available appropriations for the year .
the utilisation rates of the financial perspective estimates are 91 % and 83 % respectively .
it is , therefore , difficult to draw general conclusions on this budgetary implementation .
however , the court makes the following major points .
as reported in chapter 2 of this annual report , the high rate of expenditure , which is almost 99 % of final appropriations , is explained in part by numerous transfers that reflect in fact the poor quality of the initial estimates , of both revenue and expenditure .
the court invites both the commission and the member states to improve the quality of these estimates .
there were also numerous transfers of appropriations for the structural funds that significantly altered the structure of the 1999 budget .
in this area there was also an under-utilisation of commitment and payment appropriations and a concentration of transactions at the end of the year .
in areas where the community programmes are implemented directly by the commission , such as internal policy and external actions , implementation rates are somewhat lower .
the court repeats , consequently , its comments of previous years on the negative effects of this , for instance poor and hasty decisions , heavy workload creating a risk of errors and so on .
finally , in both the chapters on internal policies and external actions , the court finds that the commission 's own comments on budgetary implementation are inadequate .
the court welcomes , therefore , the clear commitment of the commission 's answer to improve fundamentally its budgetary and accounting report .
the court has produced an annual statement of assurance since the 1994 budgetary year .
the majority of these errors occurred in areas of the community budget that are managed by the authorities in the member states .
the most frequent examples here are problems in implementing regulatory control checks insufficiently , detailed supporting documentation and failure to comply with tender procedures .
not only is it the duty of the court to report on the errors found in its audits but we should also ensure that our audit findings are interpreted and used correctly .
therefore , let me remind members of parliament that the high incidence of errors found by the court cannot , and must not , be seen as an indication of the level of fraud affecting the community budget .
most of the payment errors found by the court are due to problems of inadequate financial management and control and it is only in the case of a small proportion of the errors found that further reinvestigation by olaf or the member states ' authorities is justified .
as the court already pointed out in its previous report , a medium-term improvement requires a combination of general and specific measures , including the clarification and improvement of control procedures , particularly at the level of member states .
in this context , the court welcomes the commission 's plan for improving financial management presented to the discharge authority in the context of the discharge for 1998 .
this reflection leads me to some comments on the reform of the commission .
for instance , the proposals of the commission to increase the responsibility of authorising officers for the execution of commitments and payments while bringing to an end the centralised system of prior approval of transactions by the financial controller , together with the creation of an independent internal audit service , is in line with the key requirement for improved financial management that we lay down in our opinion no 4 / 97 .
at sector level , the commission has now announced reform programmes which can be seen as a response to concerns expressed by the court over a number of years , for example , the proposals for improving the management of external aid programmes .
this initiative is clearly based on an analysis very similar to that of the court - most comprehensively set out in its annual report for 1997 .
in some cases , such as the reforms of the measures for the subsidised use of skimmed milk and skimmed milk powder or the programme of assistance to south africa , as well as in certain areas of traditional own resources , the commission has taken actions to remedy specific weaknesses reported upon by the court .
for instance , for the milk quota system , the court found that the overall situation had not significantly changed and that , contrary to the court 's view , increased quotas have been established , thereby giving rise to greater surpluses in the milk market and a heavy financial burden for public storage and disposal measures .
in the case of the import of dairy products at preferential rates , the court considers that nothing has been done so far to avoid breaches of regulations similar to those reported in the court 's special report no 4 / 98 .
in the area of the social dialogue , the commission has not undertaken all the measures it had agreed to carry out in its replies to the court 's observations .
in its 1996 annual report , the court identified a number of weaknesses in the management of an export promotion fund for nicaragua and honduras .
in its discharge recommendation published in 1998 the council called on the commission to review its relations with the regional bank and recover amounts unduly credited by this bank .
in its 2001 programme , the court has therefore planned an overall audit covering all budgetary areas of the commission 's recovery procedures .
member states are responsible for the day-to-day management of the bulk of community funds in the areas of the common agricultural policy and the structural funds .
this annual report and the special reports published since the last discharge continue to draw attention to serious and persistent weaknesses in member states ' management and control systems .
for instance , an important category of errors reported in the statement of assurance are irregular deductions by the central or local administrations on agricultural subsidies .
the commitment undertaken by the commission should be seen as a constructive reply to this challenge : a reply that deserves our support .
the new president of the italian court of auditors , the corte dei conti , who was officially installed in office a few weeks ago , said in his instalment address : " i am convinced that the relations between the court of auditors and parliament would be significantly improved if parliament strengthened the instruments that are designed to ensure that parliament systematically takes results of audits carried out by the court of auditors into consideration . "
yesterday i had the opportunity - for which i thank the president - to discuss with the president of parliament involving all the committees of this parliament in the business of financial and management control .
last , but not least , we will also need the cooperation of the member states .
being responsible for the day-to-day management of the bulk of community funds , the member states need to strengthen their financial controls and to take up fully their responsibilities in the fight against fraud against the community budget .
only when all actors - the commission , parliament , the council , the european court of auditors and the member states - commit themselves to the reform and cooperate in this achievement will the confidence of the european taxpayer in community financing be able to be restored .
madam president , mr president of the court of auditors , members of the court of auditors , ladies and gentlemen , the european commission is heading in the right direction , but it still has a long way to go .
the court of auditors is giving the commission 's reform a fair wind .
that is to be welcomed and i would like to thank you most sincerely , mr karlsson , and also the members of the court of auditors and its officials , for supporting the reform of the commission in your report .
in its annual report for 1999 , the court concluded that too many errors had occurred in implementing the budget to give a positive statement of assurance .
the court has once again stressed that over 80 % of european budget resources are administered by the member states .
but i find it really amazing that some member states can refuse to accept financial responsibility , for example , in the area of customs duties , when their own authorities have made mistakes which mean that customs duties cannot be entered and they then refuse to make good this shortfall in revenue , so that instead all the member states have to accept joint responsibility for this revenue shortfall .
the court of auditors also makes it clear in its report that the errors identified by the court do not amount to fraud , nor are they detrimental to the budget .
the recently published annual report on protecting the financial interests of the community and the annual report on fraud prevention demonstrate this .
new measures have been taken to prevent fraud in procurement , which is a very important area .
cooperation agreements with third countries and , in particular , with candidate countries have been framed more strictly so that anti-fraud measures do not stop at the eu 's borders .
mr president of the court of auditors , i for one warmly welcome the fact that you have announced your intention to prepare a special report , to carry out a special audit on this .
the court of auditors is increasingly making use of special reports .
i would like to welcome this trend on behalf of the commission , as these special reports are very topical and can therefore also be valuable in making up-to-the-minute decisions .
by way of a specific example , i have in mind the special report that has just been published on the market organisation for sugar .
that applied to food aid for russia , for example , which the court audited in one report .
the commission has presented a paper on this to the committee on budgets .
however , not only are we heading in the right direction , we have also already covered a significant part of the ground .
it has also set up an internal audit service which will monitor the control systems in individual departments as well as creating a central financial service which all the directorates-general can use , for instance when they are drawing up contracts or when they need help in implementing the provisions of the financial regulation .
but we are now coming to a difficult stretch , where we need the support of the european parliament , the council and also the court of auditors .
this applies , for example , to the amendment of the disciplinary procedure , but it also applies in particular to the revision of the financial regulation .
mr president , you said that much of the reform is still only on paper .
for example , the court of auditors has committed itself to giving its opinion on the proposal for the revision of the financial regulation as quickly as possible , and i am very grateful for that .
but i would particularly like to thank you , mr karlsson , as president of the court of auditors , for the way you have kept the members of the committee on budgetary control informed this time round .
the reality as described in the annual report is , however , more sobering .
parliament expressly drew attention to these serious accounting errors during the discharge procedures for 1996 , 1997 and 1998 .
the number of errors occurring is too great for a guarantee of this kind to be given .
madam president , i should first of all like to thank the court of auditors for its annual report .
the amount of fixed assets has been set eur 240 million too low .
liabilities have been set eur 2.6 billion too low , and unredeemed liabilities have been set eur 1.2 billion too high .
the former commission , which was primarily responsible for the 1999 budget , was indeed given the sack .
i believe this is a good way of doing that , and i also think that the report should be much more practical .
i could also do with seeing the court of auditors produce its report earlier in the year .
it would give us more time for the discharge procedure in parliament , and we should not need to defer the discharge every single year .
as rapporteur , i now have only 14 days in which to ask the commission questions , and in 14 days it has to supply me with the answers .
it is almost unreasonable to make such demands , so if we could obtain the report much earlier , we could also produce a piece of work of even higher quality .
reform of the commission is largely about making the individual directorates-general responsible , and i should like to ask the court whether it has plans in future to restructure the annual report so that chapters for the individual directorates-general are prepared .
in 1995 , a convention to protect the eu ' s economic interests was adopted .
madam president , i too would like to thank the chairman of the court of auditors for their report , and the commissioner for their response to it .
i believe that in principle it is a sound procedure .
madam president , i , along with all my colleagues , wish to welcome this annual report which is presented to us in a spirit of constructiveness .
it is regrettable that it is not possible for the court of auditors to give a clean bill of health to the commission with a positive statement of assurance .
this situation has not changed since the first statement of assurance was published in respect of the 1994 budgetary year .
member states are responsible for managing 80 % of the expenditure and a range of errors has been found by the court at member state level .
we should remind ourselves that the eu resources come directly or indirectly from european citizens .
i am pleased that the commission has taken steps to improve its management control over community finances , and systems are being put in place in the member states .
the commission must be vigilant in its pursuit of proper management procedures at member state level .
in conclusion , let us approach our task in a positive and constructive spirit in the best interests of the citizens of the eu .
madam president , mr president of the court of auditors , in 1999 , the netherlands made the highest per capita contribution to eu coffers .
firstly , the commission has committed eur 400 million more than we budgeted for , and secondly , it has modified the original budget and implemented a revised version without parliament ' s approval .
the number of irregularities in the structural funds payments warrants a thorough investigation into the way these funds operate and their effectiveness .
reforming the commission is no guarantee that previously recorded irregularities will not arise in the future .
i should be grateful if the court would issue its opinion on the reform of the financial regulation soon .
right now , madam president , i should like to stop talking and wait for someone from the council to come here .
you say that you keep on drawing attention to serious and persistent weaknesses in member states ' control and management systems , and you say that most of the errors occur in the main spending programmes managed by the member states ' administrations .
i believe that we , the members of this parliament , will be able to point to and lay the blame on our own administrations if they do not meet their commitments , but you have to do us the favour of clearly indicating the states and the programmes .
i am convinced that in order for the community ' s financial interests to be properly defended any management failures must have consequences in the budget and parliament must be able to deny funds to a member state for repeated breaches of spending control regulations .
mr pomes ruiz , it is totally unacceptable that the council ' s seat is empty .
your work is crucial to our job because you are the experts and we then sort out the political problems .
we must not forget that this report refers to the 1999 budget , the year when there was the forced resignation of the commission , so it is clearly too early to judge yet .
let us not forget , and i hope the council once again is listening , that 80 % of the money is spent in the member states .
we want to know where the problems lie , in which member states , in which areas .
of course , there are no magic solutions to improving financial control in the commission .
we have a lot of vested interests to challenge but we will be watching next year 's report for concrete evidence that the measures the commission has put in place since its investiture have had a real impact in stamping out financial mismanagement .
madam president , the enlargement of the european union is looming , and the report by the court of auditors leaves us in no doubt that there is still a great deal of work to be done in the candidate countries too .
if we are to do all this on the already modest budgets we have at present , how are we to manage when these countries actually become members and start participating in the common agricultural policy and the structural funds ?
madam president , it is all very well having one representative from the council here , but that is not enough , because - as has already been pointed out on several occasions - the majority of serious errors have been committed in the member states .
the committee on budgetary control can no longer tolerate the impression being created , year in year out , that ' it is a real shambles in brussels ' , when the main culprits are sitting in the capital cities .
i think that if the court leaves this much room for interpretation in its report , the result will always be critical headlines .
this headline relates to a press conference by mr friedmann , and i must ask , mr karlsson , why members of the court of auditors are making different statements , first in our committee on budgetary control and then apparently to the press .
i believe that we urgently need clearer criteria for next year 's report by the court of auditors .
secondly , various honourable members have already mentioned the lack of clarity here .
mrs ruhle and other previous speakers have mentioned percentages .
but you have not included that in your report , and i am sick and tired of hearing , year after year , that the member states are responsible for 80 % and the commission for only 20 % , while the report itself does not point the finger of blame !
mr president , although the court cannot provide a positive statement of assurance for 1999 , the tone of the report on the whole is more positive than it has been in previous years .
i would like to congratulate the commission , and commissioner schreyer in particular , on the court 's observation that many of the changes it has requested are being implemented or are on the way to being implemented .
i would also like to pick on the council by asking why it is not moving forward on article 24 of the financial regulation .
parliament moved very quickly to give its opinion and i hope that council will be able to do the same and adopt its position well before christmas .
it is too political in the negative sense of the word .
other members have already pointed this out .
we need to look at the way the court works and how its independence from the institutions and the programmes it is meant to audit can be strengthened .
the report is positive about steps that have been taken by parliament to remedy problems that have been identified by the court , too positive in my view .
many of these changes have either not yet been implemented or have been implemented partially .
finally , mr karlsson , while we , as a parliament , make all these changes , perhaps you could go and help america count its votes !
perhaps some european union common sense will help sort out the problem and give george bush his rightful place in history - its dustbin !
mr president , commissioner , mr president of the court of auditors , ladies and gentlemen , this new report from the court of auditors which we have just received is of interest to the committee on budgetary control because it makes a number of points concerning the problems of managing the community budget , while at the same time warning us against the narrow interpretations that could be extracted from the crude exploitation of certain figures .
let me quickly expand upon three points .
first of all , there is a question of terminology : even though all too often no clear distinction is made between the notions of fraud and irregularity , the court of auditors warns us against the temptation to consider irregularities or errors as tantamount to cases of fraud .
but it must be pointed out that the court of auditors itself says that cases of fraud are few in number .
for example , there is regional vat in some member states .
the third point i would like to make concerns the debate which took place yesterday evening when the court of auditors ' presented its annual report to the committee on budgetary control .
the court of auditors was asked - and a number of speakers have reminded us of this morning - to explicitly name the member states in which fraud and irregularities have been uncovered .
we are not looking for scapegoats , either in our institutions or in our member states .
what is more , as the working method applied by the court of auditors is based on sampling , we only have a partial view of the situation .
the report from the court of auditors highlights , somewhat more so than in the past , the situation regarding the management and control of community funds by the member states .
mr president , mr president of the court of auditors , commissioner , over the last two years the court of auditors has published six special reports on the subject of the common agricultural policy .
in its special report on subsidies for the disposal of skimmed milk , it highlights a lack of supervisory measures , a level of falsification of milk data and fraudulent use of this data that is unparalleled in any other agricultural sector .
in its report on the disposal of butter , the court of auditors noted that 89 % of the budget is spent on subsidies to the food industry through procedures of dubious transparency and of even more dubious efficiency in terms of their impact on farmers ' incomes .
in both cases , this involves a limited number of countries and a limited number of economic agents , who are the direct beneficiaries of these policies .
in what has been its most important work on the common agricultural policy , the special report on arable crops , the court concluded that , from 1993 to 1997 , the community budget paid out a sum of more than eur 13 billion more than could reasonably have been expected .
the court , therefore , quite rightly concluded that support for farmers should not be provided on the basis of price , production or area , but of support for the net income of farmers or of agricultural work units .
these are excellent , high-quality documents , which are a " drop in the ocean " in a common agricultural policy that still gives special treatment to larger farmers at the expense of the smaller ones and to countries and regions at the heart of europe at the expense of peripheral countries and regions .
it is a shame that the court of auditors ' annual report , which is supposedly drawn up to reflect the most relevant aspects of the work undertaken in the course of the year through the special reports , did not include these studies and decided to concentrate on other issues on which it had not undertaken specific studies .
first of all , on the procedure for presenting the annual report to parliament and the budgetary control committee , i am happy to listen to the assurances from members of parliament that the situation this year is more satisfactory than before .
first of all i point out - not only to mr blak , rapporteur for this year 's discharge , but to mr mulder - that we have gradually changed and developed the procedure for drawing up the statement of assurance in close collaboration with this parliament and the budgetary control committee , to meet with the wishes of the committee by including in the statement of assurance the specific observations in the different budget areas .
but i should like to make it abundantly clear that a procedure of this kind has to develop very gradually so that we do not have a complete change in the method of data collation because then the value of this exercise would not meet the requirements we are set under the treaty .
a statement of assurance is a very detailed exercise , including not only specific observations on the different budget areas but also a global appraisal .
members of the budgetary control committee point out the need for more precision .
you are right that we have to be more precise in our observations .
but a delay of more than two years makes the value of this exercise very limited .
it is very difficult to be more precise when we do not have a clearance system that would give the answers that we ask for , for instance in respect of the social fund .
the court of auditors also has to change its working methods .
it was quite clear , in this particular case , that the court of first instance supported us by saying we not only have the right to mention these names but also a duty to do so .
the intention of the court of auditors is not to become a political instrument but to be an objective instrument for your political control here in parliament and we will continue to work towards this end .
i will come back to that next time when i report and give you the plan for the programme of work for next year when we see each other again .
that is why we should use other methods and adopt the approach that we have agreed on the specific observations field and bring the das exercise more in line with the other audits , not only of the court , but also of the commission and of the member states , in the clearance of accounts .
i was also thinking about florida this morning , mr van hulten , and i am thankful that i was not responsible for auditing the election procedure in that specific state .
i must comment , mr blak , on what you said .
thank you very much , mr karlsson .
the debate is closed .
perhaps the quality of the proposal is due in part to the fact that the commission consulted over 14 consumer organisations and these pointed out the difficulties there had been in implementing the 1992 directive .
and the same has happened with other proposals in the document , which to us seem acceptable .
this report was approved by a large majority in the parliamentary committee on the environment , and i shall therefore stand by the result of the committee ' s vote .
the proposals approved in the committee on the environment deal with enhancing transparency and consumer information ; ensuring the recall of products even when they are already in the hands of consumers ; limiting professional confidentiality to the bare essentials ; clarifying the definition of a safe product and a dangerous product ; including the monitoring of the safety of product installation and maintenance ( because sometimes this installation and maintenance may present a risk to consumer safety ) ; including the precautionary principle , a useful principle little used in the european union ( if it were , we would not have problems such as mad cow disease , to be examined this afternoon , the dioxin issue , or other matters relating to genetically modified products ) ; ensuring a certain harmonisation of surveillance and follow-up programmes ( it is important that member states should maintain some equality in these surveillance and follow-up programmes ) ; and in general arranging for consumers to be given information in the language of the country in which they buy the products .
mr president , unfortunately we cannot accept some amendments first tabled in the committee on the environment and now tabled here , which go against these principles .
the first concerns amendment no 4 .
it proposes removing a paragraph which simply asks producers and distributors to inform the authorities in the member states immediately if they learn of a dangerous product .
some amendments , such as nos 1 and 18 , deal with questions that basically concern the united kingdom , and it must be said that all the groups from the united kingdom , whether socialist , popular or green , have supported them vehemently and they have been approved in the committee on the environment .
they relate to a matter that is very specific to the united kingdom , that is , charity shops and sales more or less between private individuals .
mr president , i thank the commission and the council for their collaboration in the preparation of this report .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the attitude of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market towards this matter is quite different from that of the responsible committee , the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy .
i am therefore deeply grateful to the ppe group for having adopted these amendments here today and tabling them for further debate here in this chamber .
my second point is about export bans , which have previously been so highly praised .
in light of recent experience , notably the european court of justice ruling on tobacco advertising , i can really only urge this house to heed the recommendations to plenary of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , as the committee responsible for such matters .
for this simple reason we have expressed a different viewpoint , and we can only advise this chamber , on behalf of a majority of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , to accept amendments nos 38 or 41 in particular , as these relate to a weakening of export bans .
mr president , in march this year we adopted the directive on cableway installations designed to carry persons .
this demonstrates just how important legislation is here , and directives in areas as sensitive as product safety need to be implemented as soon as possible .
i hope that will happen before 3 may 2002 .
the proposal on product safety before us today is a general directive relating in particular to those areas not covered by existing directives .
i believe that this principle is enormously important for consumer protection because it makes it possible to check at any point whether a product complies with standards or not .
in addition , there is the question of what the scope of current standards in europe is and what the scope of european standards would be .
as various honourable members have already said , at the very least proof that different safety rules apply in the importing country should be accepted .
in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , under the wise guidance of our rapporteur , we passed a series of amendments which , again , my group would commend en bloc to the house today .
this proposal includes some extremely valuable general principles including the one which the other side of the chamber appears to find offensive .
that is the principle that we do not export products that we believe are unsafe for our own people in the european union .
the commission have begun to take a tentative but welcome step in that direction and perhaps the commissioner will say more about that when he replies .
the charity shops welcome the general protection of this directive .
our amendments nos 1 , 8 and 18 bear on that point .
incidentally , we support the commission ' s proposals concerning the extension of the directive 's scope of application to include services , and also the incorporation of migrated products , even though there is certainly still a lot more that could be done in these areas , which will no doubt fall to us in the future .
finally , a brief question for the commission about article 4 , which concerns european standards and the question as to whether they must be disclosed .
mr president , the proposal under consideration was certainly long-awaited .
on the other hand , it does provide for a ban on exporting products classed as dangerous , which is certainly evidence of the union 's high level of civilisation , but there is no clear indication of whether this ban is consistent with the procedure known as prior informative concert , laid down , in fact , by international conventions .
mr president , it goes without saying that we need a certain basic level of consumer protection in the european union .
a danish or german consumer has different safety requirements to a dutch or italian consumer .
most importantly - and here i am addressing the council representative - how can any safety directives be effectively implemented if the council refuses to endorse the directive on safety inspections and controls ?
mr president , i congratulate the rapporteur on her work , which addresses the fundamental concerns of consumers ' associations , which must be accepted as equal partners in a constructive dialogue .
recalling products in a situation of risk should not be done as a last resort but must begin as soon as there are reasonable grounds for taking this course of action in the light of recent scientific advances .
community standardisation must be based on appropriate scientific knowledge and we must therefore foster cooperation between member states in researching the safety of products in general and of high-risk groups in particular , such as children , the elderly , new youth cultures , new lifestyles and people with a history of illness .
the reliability of product safety and after-sale care represent added value for a " made in europe " label at a particularly difficult and crucial time .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , there has been a directive on general product safety since 1992 .
the possibility of having a product 's compliance with regulations certified by an external agency would certainly be very helpful in this case and would ensure a clearer and more logical approach .
in other sectors , this directive has been extended to other fields of application .
lack of confidence in the possibility of ensuring food safety , for example , is spreading like wildfire and , when all is said and done , obscures the union 's positive work in this sector .
in this context , it is therefore important to emphasise the political value of the directive upon which we are about to vote .
the laws on product safety , in particular the safety of those products which have hitherto escaped regulation by the vertical legislation already governing the matter , is being improved , consolidated and made more transparent .
the current commission proposal is in response to the numerous problems related to the health and safety of consumers which have occurred recently .
i would only say a few words to present the main aspects of this proposal .
the idea behind the directive is simple : that only safe products are placed on the market .
the two key objectives of the general products safety directive are : ensuring a high and consistent level of protection for consumer health and safety throughout europe and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market .
we had extensive consultations with stakeholders - as the rapporteur has acknowledged - on implementation of the present directive , which brought to light certain weaknesses which we are now trying to correct .
this also means that when new sectoral legislation is devised it supersedes the corresponding provisions of this directive .
for example , in the foodstuffs area - as you well know - when we have a food authority , the authority itself should provide a notification system which will take over from the general product safety provisions .
the present situation is less than ideal .
it is incredible , for example , that authorities in our member states are sometimes informed by the us authorities that a certain european product is dangerous .
the notification is compulsory in the united states but not , so far , in the european union .
member states will now be required to strengthen the tasks of competent surveillance authorities .
we now also provide for the possibility of opening the system to third countries , in particular to the candidate countries : simplification of procedures for emergency measures at community level so that we can take rapid action following the advice of a regulatory committee .
consumers often lack confidence because they do not know what is happening .
nothing undermines consumer confidence more than a belief that something is going on that they do not know about .
the limitation to this is professional secrecy as defined in article 287 of the treaty , except when there are overriding public health reasons .
many of the proposed amendments of the report are an improvement on the text and can therefore be accepted by the commission .
the obligations of distributors , which have been a part of the directive since 1992 , are formulated in a very generic and flexible way .
this new requirement does not imply any substantial additional responsibility in the case of these kinds of shops .
charity shops normally receive , as a gift , single used products which they in turn sell to consumers .
however , to meet the concerns raised and in order to further clarify the situation we could consider including in the recital dealing with this article a statement that it may prove impossible to provide the competent authorities with information and documentation on the possible risks and origin of the product in the case of isolated used objects donated by private individuals .
secondly , amendment no 3 proposes a deletion of part of the motivation for having clear conditions in the annex of the directive for the duty of business to inform the authorities about dangers .
thirdly , amendment no 4 proposes adding , in a preamble , a requirement that member states draw up factual reports with the cooperation of competent and independent public or private institutions .
amendments nos 6 and 29 require the commission to consider approaches or submit a proposal relating to the safety of services in amendment no 29 before a specified date .
the commission is in fact already analysing and considering this issue , but it would go too far against the commission 's right of initiative to introduce this in the directive in such a prescriptive way .
amendment no 7 proposes certain changes in the references to paragraphs .
the first part is acceptable to the commission , but it is not common practice in community legal texts to explain the content of articles referred to , as proposed .
to replace the word " producer " with " supplier , " as proposed in amendment no 11 , would create more confusion than clarity , as there is no definition of supplier in the directive .
the definition of producer already covers suppliers whose activities may affect the safety properties of the product .
amendment no 13 proposes adding a reference to the precautionary principle in the general obligation for producers to place only safe products on the market .
the precautionary principle is a general principle of risk management by the competent authorities and cannot be enforced as such as a direct obligation on producers .
although the idea of publishing a full text of the european standards in the official journal , as proposed in amendments nos 14 and 16 , is understandable , it would require fundamental changes in the relationship between the community and the european standardisation organisations , probably implying higher levels of subsidies from the community budget .
this issue , with implications for most product-related community legislation , cannot , therefore , be dealt with in the context of the current revision of this directive .
amendment no 19 proposes harmonisation of member states ' monitoring approaches on the basis of guidelines prepared by the commission and the consultative committee .
to require member states to take measures also in cases when business has already taken satisfactory measures to prevent a risk , which would be the consequence of the second part of amendment no 21 , is not acceptable .
amendment no 23 proposes the introduction in the directive of provisions on compensation in respect of damage .
a requirement that the product safety network should be established within a specified time-frame is proposed in amendment no 24 .
although the commission is in favour of quickly establishing a network , this has to be agreed between the member states .
the first part of amendment no 27 proposes that only information related to the risks that have been established should be made available to the public .
finally , amendment no 28 proposes that the commission should submit a report on the implementation of the directive every second year instead of every three years .
allow me to explain first the commission 's position on the amendments to which we cannot agree .
amendments nos 30 , 32 , 42 and the main part of amendment no 33 propose rewordings of the existing text of the directive which is not subject to revision .
amendment no 36 proposes that services directly associated with the product should be excluded except when provided by the original producer .
the discussions in council go in the direction of dealing with the services within the definition of product which is , in fact , acceptable to us .
amendment no 43 would totally exclude the application of this directive to products regulated by specific legislation .
this is not acceptable , as these directives often lack provisions on market surveillance , notification systems and so on .
a possibility of proving that a product conforms to the requirements through external certification is proposed in amendment no 37 .
such certification can always be used for providing evidence but cannot , in itself , be regarded as foolproof .
amendment no 38 proposes limiting the time period for emergency decisions to six months which is , in most cases , not sufficient for adopting permanent measures .
in addition , amendment no 41 proposes that the export ban should not apply when a product has been banned while carrying out further checks .
this is a period during which there are real dangers of exports taking place .
amendments nos 39 and 44 propose that information on dangerous products should only be available to the public once a banning or withdrawal decision has been issued and that exchange of information protected by professional secrecy should not be possible between market surveillance authorities .
as the consumer should also have the right to information about risks not yet firmly established , including in cases when the measure taken is not a ban or withdrawal , this is not acceptable either .
in addition , effective market surveillance cannot be carried out under the proposed limitations regarding confidential information .
amendment no 40 proposes a deletion of the duty for business to notify the authorities about dangerous products they place on the market .
having extensively explained why the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 8 , 11 , 13 , 14 , 16 , 18 , 19 , 23 , 24 , 28 to 30 , 32 , 33 , 36 to 43 and , in part , amendment no 7 , the second part of amendment no 21 and the first part of amendments nos 27 and 34 , i can inform you that the commission can accept amendments nos 2 , 9 , 10 , 12 , 15 , 20 , 22 , 25 , 26 , 31 and 35 and , in part , amendment no 7 , the first part of amendment no 21 and the second part of amendments nos 27 and 34 , as these amendments constitute an improvement and clarification of the commission 's proposal .
in the case of some of these amendments , however , in particular amendments nos 2 , 15 , 22 , 25 , 31 and the second part of amendment no 27 , further editorial changes might improve the text .
thank you very much , commissioner byrne .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m .
mr president , i have been a socialist in italy and in international organisations for 30 years .
mr martelli , you have had your minute .
mr president , i wish to categorically reject mr martelli 's remarks .
i would therefore urge you to vote in favour of amendment no 12 and amendment no 37 because taken together , they provide a sensible solution .
mr president , my question relates to the order of the votes on the amendments concerning paragraph 10 , in other words , the genocide in armenia .
so i suggest we draw up yesterday ' s voting list again , in other words , to vote on amendment no 13 first .
we have highly qualified people assisting us with our work .
unfortunately we are not in a position to welcome that yet . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) report ( a5-0275 / 2000 ) by mr jove peres , on behalf of the committee on fisheries , on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on community participation in regional fisheries organisations ( rfos ) com ( 1999 ) 613 - c5-0108 / 2000 - 2000 / 2068 ( cos ) ) ( parliament adopted the resolution ) explanations of vote motion for a resolution ( b5-0845 / 2000 ) mr president , i gave my explanation of vote in writing but , in addition , i would like to say that i find it truly hard to believe that , precisely in the context of this report , parliament voted against a series of amendments this morning which called , for example , for respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
the delays in implementing the agreements can only be partly justified .
it is in consideration of this dual responsibility that i tabled amendments referring to the governments of the euromed states .
if they do not assume their responsibility and make good their undertaking , there can be no project creating a multilateral sub-regional free trade area in the mediterranean countries , as proposed at the malta conference in the context of south-south relations .
with regard to respect for the dignity of legal immigrants , in the spirit of a harmonised european migration policy , in addition to legal instruments guaranteeing the fair treatment of immigrants , financial aid instruments need to be established for all those young people who wish to return to their native countries to start work when they have finished secondary education or a university course in a european country .
coordination of member states ' initiatives in this matter is becoming essential and could be carried out by the european commission .
another type of coordination concerns potential contributors - states and financial institutions - of international and regional aid , particularly in the gulf countries .
eriksson report ( a5-0294 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for this report , which lays down the action to be taken by the european community in order to bring about genuine gender equality .
the member states must also respect women in their laws on widows ' and married women 's pensions .
mr president , despite the progress made in recent years within the european union , within this europe that champions human rights , structural discrimination on the grounds of sex still exists .
but all the declarations concerning ' equal opportunities for men and women ' are cast in a rather garish light by the european directive authorising night work for women .
the ban on night work for women was one of those rare areas in which , by protecting women , the social legislation of certain countries was further advanced for female than for male workers .
if this is going to be possible , we must encourage this effective participation not just at community level , but also in the member states .
as the rapporteur states , it is important that the commission considers the fact that a prerequisite of any genuine democracy is that all its citizens - men and women alike - should participate and be represented in equal measure in economic life , in decision-making forums , in social and cultural life and in civil society .
the commission must nevertheless bear in mind that no work on gender equality will have a lasting effect unless women ' s rights are improved , specifically in everyday practices in all spheres of activity . . ( de ) in order to ensure equality of opportunities between women and men in cultural , social and economic life , and to minimise and prevent discrimination on grounds of gender , the commission has adopted a twin-track approach of which the committee on women 's rights and equal opportunities approves .
as you are aware , the committee on budgets has identified this ngo as a monopoly .
gonzalez alvarez report ( a5-0309 / 2000 ) mr president , there are several reasons why i voted against the gonzalez alvarez report but , in order to keep within the minute allowed for this explanation of vote , i will mention only one .
as i left , i said to her , " don 't worry : we are going to debate the gonzalez alvarez report which deals precisely with product safety . "
thus , we are opposed in principle to the original directive and must therefore oppose any extension of it .
what particularly disturbs us are the plans revealed by commissioner byrne to develop a network of enforcement authorities to help implement this law .
having seen proposals for " networks " elsewhere in community initiatives , we see in this the beginnings of something which is altogether unhealthy - a unified enforcement system amounting to a european union consumer law enforcement service .
this report welcomes an improvement in current european law on product safety , but in my view the directive should not be applied to charity shops , a key feature in the british high street .
lagendijk report ( a5-0324 / 2000 ) mr president , the council quite rightly hoped to rationalise eu aid to the balkan states and to reform the european agency for the reconstruction of kosovo , whose competence could gradually be extended to cover the entire region .
the european parliament has rallied to the call of its old friend and has just voted for amendments in its favour .
amendment no 5 proposes returning the running of the agency to the commission , which would be responsible to the european parliament .
amendment no 14 weakens the governing board vis-a-vis the commission , by stipulating that its decisions are adopted by simple majority .
amendment no 10 extends the tasks of the agency , which is now effectively controlled by the commission .
finally , amendment no 15 gives the commission free rein in determining the rules governing the languages used by the agency , about which we are very concerned .
mr president , both as a member of the european people 's party and as a member of the pensioners ' party in italy , i was very happy to vote for this major report on european union aid - and the management thereof - to albania , croatia , bosnia , montenegro , serbia and kosovo .
kosovo has the right to decide about its future independently and in partnership with its neighbours .
at the same time , we should : 1 .
garot report ( a5-0305 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the garot report , although there are many gaps and inaccuracies which the pensioners ' party does not support .
in particular , i would call upon the commission to decide to put forward new , different types of proposals in order to resolve the problems suffered by agriculture and livestock farmers .
the proposal is unnecessary and harmful because it introduces a new form of aid for a sector which has so far acquitted itself well without aid .
parliament ' s report will introduce still more aid schemes .
we are therefore voting against both the commission ' s proposal and parliament ' s report .
once the vote has been taken , this report on the common organisation of the market in pigmeat will simply add to the tonnes of paper of common agricultural market legislation .
we are opposed to the market economy , which is just as stupid and disastrous in regulating the economy as a whole as it is in regulating the production of pigmeat .
the garot report is an attempt to improve on some aspects of the commission ' s proposal , by seeking to reach a compromise with the council , specifically with regard to a financial contribution to the fund .
the lack of a regulatory system accentuated this movement in favour of large , often integrated , production units .
we believe we should support them by creating efficient tools not only to resolve the crises but also to better control the markets , improve quality and promote their products .
the creation of a regulatory fund for pigmeat production , as amended , does not place the free market in the balance but will protect small family holdings . - ( nl ) the pigmeat market is cyclical .
a slight variation in the supply is enough to spark a crisis situation .
however , the crises have been more drawn out in recent years and have had a terrible impact on young and small-scale pig farmers in particular .
in addition , such funds give member states the opportunity , in the form of co-financing , to grant capped state aid to a greater or lesser extent .
these are the reasons we voted against the proposal .
reducing production is the key to dealing with crises in the pig farming sector .
morillon report ( a5-0297 / 2000 ) mr president , i am very critical at this time when we have to decide upon relations between the european union and turkey .
even though i voted for the motion , i would like to emphasise certain points which i feel that we should always bear in mind in this situation .
secondly , turkey is no longer alone against greece but alone against the european union .
this house is always talking about rights - the charter was adopted yesterday - but when it comes to the application of these rights , not so much in practical terms but at least in terms of upholding them , parliament takes alarming steps backwards which are certainly no credit to it .
franz werfel had jewish and german-bohemian relatives .
this goes to show that one disaster can trigger off the next .
there is a positive reference to the loizidou case and the judgment of the european court of human rights in strasbourg .
this is also in the interests of the turkish people who would like to live in peace with their neighbours .
the truth is that neither the rapporteur nor european governments want to offend the military who , in reality , govern turkey and reduce a section of the country to a state of emergency .
what is at stake is not even the acknowledgement of the reality of armenian genocide , since this house has already had occasion to express its views on this , most notably in its resolution of june 1987 .
what the members of the european parliament asked of turkey in 1987 was to have the courage to open its eyes to the past so as to be able to look to the future .
acknowledging genocide must be a call for dialogue to be established between the new armenian and turkish generations .
europe must spread this message . - ( fr ) it was at the european council meeting in helsinki in december 1999 that the european union decided to grant turkey the status of candidate country for accession to the european union and to establish an accession partnership and a single financial framework with a view to helping turkey 's application to progress in accordance with the copenhagen criteria .
i am primarily thinking of the resumption of the political dialogue in the association council , which met on 11 april 2000 after being suspended for three years , and the establishment of eight subcommittees entrusted with the task of setting priorities for incorporation of the acquis communautaire , the signature by turkey on 15 august and 8 september 2000 of four important un conventions , on political , civil , social and cultural rights respectively , which must be ratified as soon as possible so that human rights and democratic pluralism may be guaranteed in that country , the turkish council of ministers ' adoption of the report presented by the turkish supreme coordination council for human rights , as a ' reference working document ' , even if practical measures to protect the rights of minorities need to be added , and the adoption of the law on adjourning trials and deferring sentences for press and radio broadcasting offences .
but there are still many areas where progress is unsatisfactory , or indeed non-existent .
if turkey wants to enter into accession negotiations , it still needs to make a great deal of effort .
this once again raises the question of whether turkey really wants to be a member of the european union , or whether it would prefer to organise an integrated ' whole ' with other middle east countries , which would have very close links with the european union at the commercial and economic level , at the security and stability level and also at the human rights and democratic rules level .
sadly , many issues are still unresolved such as those related to the kurdish and armenian situations and to full respect for civil rights , although a great deal of progress has been made in these fields .
the union must be more proactive and treat enlargement to include turkey as a vital geopolitical strategy .
the genocide in armenia is one such horror and such suffering can only be alleviated if it is recognised .
we cannot forget the deportation of the entire armenian population to the deserts of mesopotamia , the deportation of the armenians of eastern anatolia in 24 hours , the shooting of able-bodied men , the persecution of women , children and old people , who covered hundreds of kilometres on foot , without medical care and without food , divested of their belongings , raped , their throats slit on the open road , the deportation in 1915 of the armenians of cilicia and eastern anatolia , the assassination of 600 armenian prominent citizens in constantinople , the extermination of more than a million armenians in just over a year - in other words , almost half the ottoman armenians .
i remember the 1987 resolution which called on turkey to acknowledge the armenian genocide as a precondition to its accession to the european union .
i remember the exact text of the conclusions of the presidency in paragraph 12 : " turkey is a candidate country destined to join the union on the basis of the same criteria as applied to candidate countries " .
nonetheless , the system that has been put in place will do its work and will impose its logic on us until the time comes when this awkward position will become so untenable that our relations with turkey will be in serious and deep crisis .
it is simply a question of recognising that geography and history have made present-day turkey a country that is not european .
in the face of stark realities , it is about fully respecting the dignity of the turkish people by not seeking to impose on it a behaviour which it must adopt of its own accord , and by seeking to jointly develop close cooperation .
jove peres report ( a5-0275 / 2000 ) mr president , as you are aware , the news is spreading throughout the world of fish that i am promoting their cause .
the countries of europe , as a whole , have the same number of votes as cuba , for example .
this situation does not worry the federalists for whom , when the commission speaks with a single voice , we gain in strength .
what is more , our position is often weakened by our internal mechanisms , notably prior alignment to the lowest common denominator .
on the whole , our interests are undermined , they are not defended with the necessary force , and the role of the commission is primarily that of a police officer vis-a-vis member states to get them to apply the binding decisions that have been adopted , sometimes in spite of themselves , in the regional organisation in question .
the jove peres report would not only like to regularise this situation for existing regional organisations and those that are in the process of being established , it would also like to reinforce it by putting paid to the commission ' s habit of calling on the support of technical experts from different member states .
we cannot accept any of these approaches .
the european union is not a confederation of states but a ' sui generis ' entity in international law , in which ...
there is a desire for economic , social and political integration .... "
in this context , it appears necessary to increase international cooperation and ensure that the community consolidates its undertaking to define a law on fish stocks .
the principle tool for achieving closer cooperation is the regional fisheries organisations ( rfos ) , which play a key role on the international scene but which lack the human resources for the community to be adequately represented .
the rfos are particularly suitable for achieving the objectives established because of their regional nature , but , above all , they contribute to the rational management of resources by reflecting the specific characteristics of the fishing areas .
my comments naturally apply to the issue before us today , the representation of the european community within regional fisheries organisations , but they apply equally to talks conducted for example within the world trade organisation .
if the commission has the power to represent the community and to negotiate in an international context , it is because it has received a mandate from the council .
in a good many cases , such as fishing in certain regions of the world , the interests of member states are not uniform .
what is important therefore is not to satisfy the commission ' s desire for domination by weakening the position of europe , which would be in direct conflict with the correct application of the principle of subsidiarity .
but although i am upbeat about the outcome of this directive , it cannot conceal the fact that waste incineration is an emergency solution .
according to the commission ' s green paper , incinerating pvc waste gives rise to a number of problems .
finally , i anticipate our being able to tighten up the waste incineration directive in a few years ' time , in close consultation with industry .
the objective of this proposal , which aims to replace three directives relating to waste incineration , is to improve air , water and soil quality and human health by reducing emissions of pollutants linked to incineration and co-incineration , notably dioxins , furans and heavy metals .
this proposal also allows for the integration of the technical progress that has been achieved since the 1990s .
overall , the result of the conciliation process is very pleasing .
the emission limit values for incineration and co-incineration plants have been brought into line , while taking account of the technical differences between these two activities .
i have always been in agreement with the joint draft which regards these two systems as complementary and not competing .
nonetheless , we are satisfied with this third reading , because it reinforces the operation authorisation conditions .
our group , which wanted to avoid the confusion between hazardous and non-hazardous waste , recognises that the current text clearly provides for different recovery and treatment processes , which are adapted to the types of waste involved .
we all know that it has been a long and very difficult process putting together the requirements for the incineration of both hazardous and non-hazardous waste .
i want to draw attention to just three important objectives we can achieve by means of the directive .
it will no longer be so financially attractive to export waste to other places in the community where waste handling requirements are less strict .
the end result is that we now have a reasonably balanced proposal for imposing strict limits regarding the incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste , improving the environment and enabling waste to also be used in the production of electricity and heat .
a directive on the incineration of waste will increase the costs of burning waste , but will cut hazardous emissions and improve the state of the environment .
with the toughening of legislation on landfill there has been significant increase in waste incineration , and i know from my own experience in my constituency in wales that incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste is as much a concern , in terms of its effects on health and the environment , as is landfill .
in particular , i welcome the commitment to improving public access to information on incineration plants and the obligation on plant operators to publish an annual report on emissions .
overall , this much needed legislation will put in place safeguards to limit the worst effects of incineration on health and the environment and , i hope , discourage incineration-for-profit , which depends on the creation of more and more waste .
thus , in the conciliation process we were able to agree that plants that incinerate more than two tons per hour should publish a report on their emissions each year and smaller incineration plants should be included in the lists that would come under public scrutiny .
the limit values for emissions in the annex to the directive were definitely the most difficult point .
i myself succeeded in having some amendments made to the report , vital for the continuation of co-incineration practices that have been in place in finland for years and which are more ecological than those contained in the directive that is now about to be approved .
this directive will lead to significant reductions in emissions in several key pollutants across the european union , despite the fact that the volume of waste incineration will increase over the coming years .
the conciliation process was demanding , but a well-balanced compromise has been found and the amendments of parliament and the council have produced a better directive .
the scope of the directive is much clearer .
let me remind you that the directive is only one instrument in the whole waste-management concept of the commission .
burning waste is the final stage in the treatment of waste , due to the waste hierarchy , and the commission will make strong efforts to reduce and recycle waste and in its approach to an integrated product policy .
in conclusion , this directive is a major contribution to the reduction of negative effects on the environment and the risks they pose to human health .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
today , member states , while retaining their own responsibilities through the direct application of the subsidiarity principle , nevertheless have problems in common which justify a debate at european level .
however diverse national situations may be , one can recognise in all member states a more or less general reduction in statutory cover , an enhanced role for supplementary health insurance schemes and a marked increase in discriminating factors .
starting from the principle that every individual has a right to medical care and that healthcare is a social good to which all member states must provide access , it is unacceptable that some are forced to simply abandon healthcare , allowing unwholesome systems to take their place which are disastrous for our societies .
the employment and social policy council adopted a european strategy for the fight against social exclusion in luxembourg on 17 october .
the european charter of fundamental rights , which will be officially announced at the nice summit , recognises the right to social security and to health protection as a common reference value .
to this end , i sought the opinion of the economic and social committee , which greatly clarified a number of points in a communication which was adopted with a very large majority .
the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the proposals of the draftsman , ioannis marinos , gave rise to a large number of debates and favoured the adoption of compromise texts .
a broad consensus was finally reached within the committee on employment and social affairs , which i have the honour of chairing .
this will preferably be in the form of proposals for recommendations to include the following points : recognition by member states of a common concept of a universal service to govern the basic service which will enable every european citizen to have access to the necessary care ; establishing , in agreement with the private insuring bodies , guaranteed respect for the principle of non-discrimination ; organising a system of pooling costs in order to cover the costs of persons and groups with serious existing diseases , and encouraging private insurers to develop preventative measures .
however , they are also needed in order to compensate for the increasing shortcomings of national health services as the result of public-sector management , high costs and cutbacks in expenditure by governments , expenditure which has steadily decreased in all the member states during the 1980s and at the beginning of the 1990s .
as in the past , these gaps are being filled and the increase in the demand for better health services is being increasingly covered by subsidiary and voluntary supplementary health schemes set up by public- or private-sector agencies on a profit-making or non-profit-making basis .
with its kohll and decker decrees , the court of justice has sent a clear message to the eu member states .
this issue has one or two implications for us , but it will also have an impact on the national systems .
because it is very important .
i also think the rocard report has made a breakthrough on that score , but it is very important for the commission to take up the initiative now , and come to the table with an actual green paper .
however , equal access to health care must be available to everyone , without exception .
for instance , we see that in the us system , health costs as measured against gross domestic product are nearly twice as high as the eu average , and that in the united states there are still some 40 million people who have inadequate health insurance .
it would be wrong if the eu were to devise rules concerning , for example , data relating to health , or requiring everyone to be insured and , in that way , destroy the multiplicity of supplementary health insurance schemes which exist today in many countries and operate on actuarial principles .
this view turns up its nose at the non-profit-making mutual insurance companies , which are vital players in supplementary health insurance in several member states .
the report by michel rocard , which is being presented today as amended in committee , demonstrates the difficulty of overcoming these contradictions .
the increasing transfer of responsibilities from the basic systems to the supplementary health insurance systems is doubly disadvantageous in that it reduces the obligations of these systems , while at the same time weakening non-profit-making mutual insurance companies which reject risk selection .
with human genetic mapping , it is necessary to prohibit genetic tests and the use of their results before the conclusion or during the term of a supplementary health protection contract .
the same applies to the health of all the citizens of our member states and the cohesion of our territories .
regional inequalities in terms of development are glaring enough .
mr president , i would like to echo the sentiments of those who have congratulated michel rocard on this excellent initiative , which is in the best tradition of parliament ' s committee on employment and social affairs .
the report is based on the intention expressed by the council in 1992 to achieve convergence of objectives and policies in the sphere of social security , and it links these with the existing objectives announced in lisbon with regard to social cohesion and economic progress .
i expressly included a third element in my contribution in the committee , which i believe makes another strong case for european action in the field of health insurance ; in particular , the removal of obstacles to freedom of movement , and not just the free movement of services that bartho pronk talked about , but also the free movement of persons within the eu .
an opinion is being prepared on this in the social and economic council .
it looks as if employers and employees are at last to reach agreement on basic health insurance in which market forces and competition between insurers will be combined with agreements on a compulsory basic package and , in addition , a broad package with optional elements which must , at the very least , be subject to an acceptance obligation and an average premium .
the logic of this is that all health care not included in this basic insurance has to be covered by private supplementary health insurance .
supplementary health insurance schemes must provide protection against the risk of bankruptcy , insolvency and fraud , but should not serve as an excuse for limiting the range of services provided by statutory health insurance .
mr president , i should also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his own-initiative report , particularly because it is precisely that : an own-initiative report .
but above all he draws attention , for example in paragraph 3 , to the significant problems regarding the long-term sustainability of public health care systems throughout the eu because of the increasing cost of advances in treatment possibilities , as well as the growing demand from an increasingly elderly population .
his report is a useful contribution to that debate , though i hope he agrees in turn that the contributions made in committee , including those made on this side of the house , may perhaps have made it even more useful .
health care is financed in different ways in different member states and the roles of private health insurers are correspondingly different .
we really are on a tightrope and i think that decisions on supplementary insurance which will apply to all the member states need to be taken cautiously and with a great deal of circumspection .
in this sense , i think that , basically , we should await the commission study on current systems as well as a commission study on the american system and the schemes in operation in other countries because then we shall have a clearer picture of all this .
mr president , those of us who have devoted ourselves all our lives to studying social issues will remember that the old manuals used to include a definition of social protection as a set of state protection measures to cover economically assessable risks affecting individuals or families which individuals - family units - could not cover themselves .
it is , moreover , a fact that social systems - protection systems - have been suffering from the influences and consequences of economic , demographic and public health situations , etc .
and it is also a fact that economic recession , unemployment , social exclusion , the appearance of new diseases , the ageing of the population , as well as advances in research , improved therapies , the development of new techniques of diagnosis and treatment have all had a profound effect on the levels of mandatory social and health cover .
articles 34 and 35 of our fledgling european union charter of fundamental rights recognise and respect the entitlement to social security benefits and social services and , at the same time , proclaim the entitlement of everyone residing and moving legally within the union to social security benefits and social advantages in accordance with community law and national laws and practices .
complementary private health insurance , whether voluntary or not , coexists with the mandatory public system and can be a way to achieve quality health care within a given time .
this report and its accompanying amendments would like to impose rules to prevent forms of selection , based on criteria of health or handicap , on sharks such as the insurance company , axa , which has multiplied the contributions paid by parents of mentally handicapped children by a factor of ten .
imposing such rules is the very minimum necessary and we will vote in favour , but we have no intention of accepting the fact that this proposal releases member states from their duty to carry out a literally crucial task in terms of a public health service .
in order to avoid any misunderstandings , i would once again like to stress that the present report concerns supplementary health insurance and not health care as such , although obviously the two cannot be separated .
supplementing collective solidarity mechanisms with private or group insurance is completely in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity .
so information has been gathered , research has been carried out , the systems in the various member states have been investigated , etc . , which is certainly the right way to go about it .
the new proposal before us is for a green paper .
this is better than the original proposal but even this is a step too far .
the commission welcomes this initiative and it comes at crucial time because we have just launched a political debate at the european level on the reform of social protection .
it is the first time that we have decided that there is a need for cooperation on reform of social protection systems at the european level .
this report underlines the economic and social challenges posed by the measures relating to supplementary health insurance and , of course , supplementary health insurance is of vital importance nowadays because the basic insurance system is ripe for reform and because healthcare needs are becoming greater and greater .
there are huge differences from member state to member state as far as the definition is concerned , as far as the functioning of the systems are concerned , the combination between the public and the private sector .
as an example , as far as the differences in the role played by voluntary and supplementary health insurance is concerned , the coverage of the population by voluntary or supplementary health insurance mechanisms ranges from under 0.5 % in sweden to more than 85 % in france .
however , these figures are somewhat misleading since both the concept and the coverage of the system differ significantly from country to country .
the commission will act immediately in the framework of its competences and i will try to reply to the conclusions of your report .
however , it is essential to draw up an in-depth report on the situation and we can do this as soon as possible .
of course , we will take into account the wide variety of national systems and the complex nature of healthcare systems across europe .
the commission will immediately launch a study of supplementary health insurance .
this study can form the basis for a communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament proposing initiatives or measures .
we can go from general questions such as access to healthcare for all , to the more specific questions on the rights of individuals who want to settle or work in other member states .
as far as the other two proposals are concerned - the directive , the legal action , and this european forum - this is something we can think about .
it could form the second step after this study in one year 's time when we not only have the comparison between member states but we could also work with comparable indicators which are important for any proposals for european cooperation .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon .
in fact , the proposal for a community programme presented by the commission to foster cooperation between the member states in the field of combating social exclusion is little more than a study programme .
it is crucial to guarantee good-quality employment with reasonable rights and wages and to establish conditions for access to public services that are also of high quality .
it is crucial for the council to keep the promises it has given , not only with regard to the programme , but also with regard to setting appropriate objectives and goals , to be agreed on by the end of this year , so that it meets the expectations it created with the lisbon summit conclusions on its commitment to combat poverty , unemployment and social exclusion .
lastly , i wish to express my gratitude for the superb cooperation of my fellow members of the committee on employment and social affairs , of the rapporteurs from other committees , of the economic and social committee , of the committee of the regions , of the ngos involved in social work and of the specialists within the commission , the french presidency and parliament who have worked with me .
i thank you for your understanding during this procedure , which means that we are able to contribute to the european union once again having a programme in this field , despite its limitations and shortcomings .
mr president , first of all i would like to thank mrs figueiredo for her report .
secondly , i would like to say how delighted i am that a compromise has indeed been reached on this important report , which means that the first reading can be brought to a successful conclusion .
setting up a committee alone will lead to a six month delay in the establishment of the programme .
the committee on budgets insists that technical support be included in the programme .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the committee on economic and monetary affairs would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report .
thirdly , the member states must , at long last , as requested and initiated in lisbon , agree on concrete targets and benchmarks , so that parliament can carry out its role as a guardian and as an animateur in this process .
we support the various elements of the programme , such as a multidimensional approach to this phenomenon , measures on health , education , housing , cohesion and complementarity with other related policies and the involvement of both non-governmental organisations and the very people who are subject to social exclusion .
we support increasing the budget to eur 100 000 000 and we attach great importance to the need for the programme to be carried out at grass roots level .
the equal opportunities committee stressed the need to take account in the programme of the fact that women are particularly vulnerable to social exclusion , particularly special categories of women such as immigrants , women with special needs , unemployed women , women with no modern vocational training and single mothers .
we must monitor the application of the programme and its evaluation very closely , commissioner , because we believe that it will help to achieve the objective we are all striving towards - the objective of a social europe , a citizens ' europe .
updating the stability programmes in germany , finland and the netherlands the next item is the commission recommendations for a council opinion on updating the stability programmes in germany , finland and the netherlands .
mr president , the commission has today adopted three recommendations regarding three council opinions on the updated stability programmes in germany , the netherlands and finland ; these are the first of the 2000-2001 round that have been updated and submitted .
as you will remember , the stability and growth pact stipulates close , on-going supervision of the member states ' budgetary position during the third phase of economic and monetary union .
the central elements in this supervision process are the stability programmes , which the member states in the euro area have to present every year .
the countries outside the euro area present their convergence programmes , which to a great extent resemble the stability programmes , although the objectives to be achieved are different .
the aim of this initiative , as you will remember , is to try to create sufficient margin so that in a crisis situation the government deficit will not exceed the reference budget deficit set at 3 % of gdp , which could obviously be reached in a crisis phase .
in their updating of the programmes each year , the member states include an extra year in the programme , analyse the budget policy implemented during the past year , explain and describe the budget policy measures they have adopted , and also revise their budget forecasts and objectives .
the document presented by a member state is assessed by the commission and , on the basis of this assessment , the council may adopt the recommendation that the commission presents .
more and more member states are reaching balanced or even clearly positive budgetary positions .
this has given us a different idea , making us wonder whether this stability and growth pact has run its course , having achieved the quantitative objective of a particular final figure , or whether it is worth introducing other aspects relating to the quality of public finances in future programmes .
the commission has opted for this second possibility ; hence , in our annual assessment , we shall now also review other aspects previously not considered in the past : first , the orientation of budget policy in each of the member states according to the point in the cycle at which it finds itself , that is , whether these kinds of budgetary measures are procyclic or anticyclic in nature and to what extent they help the market situation or create tensions within it .
thus , for instance , problems such as the ageing of the population are becoming increasingly more important .
in this respect may i just remind you that the last ecofin council asked the commission to include in the assessment of the stability programmes from next year precisely this long-term aspect of public finances in connection with the ageing of the population .
of the three programmes on which i am about to comment , one of them - the netherlands programme - already includes an annex with a specific analysis of this particular problem .
i am now going to give a very brief mention of the three programmes that have recently been updated .
the three countries plan to introduce major tax cuts in 2001 and in subsequent years , which will relieve the tax pressure on labour and stimulate employment and investment ; they are therefore positive and necessary provided that the public finances are kept stable .
germany and the netherlands both foresee a deterioration in their budget positions for the next year as a result of these tax cuts .
this issue is particularly important in the case of germany since it means the gradual reduction of the public deficit will be interrupted .
in the case of the netherlands , the commission has other concerns , such as the suitability of the policy mix and the risks associated with the fiscal incentive effects of the tax cuts in a situation of strong economic growth , which might lead to the netherlands economy overheating .
both countries have very consistently made proper use of this revenue by using it to reduce the national debt .
because of this factor and , more importantly , better budgetary positions and stronger economic growth , there will be a clear tendency for the proportions of national debt to fall over the coming years .
this year , for instance , germany hopes to bring this proportion down to the reference level of 60 % of gdp , and the netherlands hopes to bring it even lower than that this year .
these trends in the national debt mean lower interest payments , which will , in turn , help provide the necessary framework for tax cuts , and in some cases for specific increases in public spending .
based on its own programme , the netherlands government is to make important decisions on the use of its budget margins , and it would be appropriate if it used these resources to bring the national debt down more quickly , which would give it greater margins to face these problems in the future .
in the last two countries , the programmes were adopted at the same time as the budget proposals for the coming year , which in the commission ' s opinion is a more suitable practice than used to happen , when we received these updates after each country ' s budget had been presented .
this ensures that the annual budget decisions are made within a multiannual strategic framework and gives the community institutions an up-to-date , overall view of each country ' s economic situation based on the most recent data .
the commission therefore recommends that the remaining member states that are still preparing their updates should follow this example , not this year , when unfortunately it can no longer happen , but in future years .
these are the basic comments that i wished to make on the three programmes we present today .
mr president , commissioner , we are grateful to you for your report on trends in net government borrowing in the european union , mr solbes mira .
we have noted that this development is taking place in the largest country in the euro area , whereas the netherlands and finland have already achieved what we are seeking , that is budget surpluses which enable excessive debt to be repaid .
basically , because of the positive impact that the tax measures may have in germany .
germany has a higher than average tax burden .
the set of tax measures adopted by germany affects the supply side of the economy more than the demand side but will also have some effect on demand , and we believe it will allow the growth potential of the german economy to increase in the medium term .
hence we must insist on the german government taking special care when drawing up the working programmes for 2002 , on increasing revenue and on cutting costs in order to achieve a reduction in the budget deficit again .
we must not forget that we have had a double setback in the last year , as a result of oil prices trebling in little more than a year .
i shall be able to comment on this in more detail after the 22nd , when we present our economic perspective for the coming year , but according to our initial estimates , in 2000 we shall end up with an average level of inflation a little above the inflation target laid down by the central bank , but clearly higher than what we had forecast in our april perspective - we had talked of 1.8 % then .
commissioner , you rightly - in my opinion - placed great emphasis in your speech on the problem represented by the ageing population , both for the three countries in question and all the other european countries as well , and you touched upon the need to tackle the issue of the ageing population and therefore the question of the pension deficit , which is an unknown quantity weighing heavily upon the public finances of the european countries , hindering recovery , and it will do so increasingly in the future .
in last july 's publication , the european central bank indicated a way , in the social security plans reform - that is , moving from the current " pay-as-you-go " system to a funded system for mandatory contributions as well - of freeing up resources and , in perspective , ensuring the sustainability of european social security plans .
the report emphasises the fact that the reforms carried out so far in the social security systems are helping to improve the situation .
as for the solution that can be adopted , it will , of course , be a national decision to be made in each of the member states ; the commission will not make any proposals in this regard .
first they are moving towards a search for some system for financing the pay-as-you-go schemes , which may mean some element of pre-funding ; i mentioned the dutch system before , which already has obvious pre-funding elements .
they are also moving towards making a public pay-as-you-go scheme compatible with private pre-funding schemes , and of course they are also compatible with support for the setting up of specific investment funds , which may obtain long-term tax advantages and may help to deal with the ageing problem .
as you know , yesterday the french government adopted national measures to strengthen health safety , including the suspension of the use of animal meal in feed for pigs and poultry .
the council of the european union is also playing an active role , in concert with the european parliament and the european commission , in updating and constantly reinforcing europe ' s raft of measures to prevent and combat this disease .
it is important to take stock of the situation with regard to the fight against bse in the broader context of food safety developments in europe .
yesterday , then , in paris , the french government announced an intensification of national health safety measures .
two facts have increased concerns about meal of animal origin in animal feed .
the hypothesis of the accidental or fraudulent cross contamination of these animals by meal of animal origin has been put forward .
that is why the french government decided to suspend the use of meat-and-bone meal in feed for pigs , poultry , fish and domestic animals .
the methods of control will be strengthened along the entire food chain .
we propose that the commission and the european union should thus undertake to extend these tests at a european level , in the light of scientific recommendations .
the progress of research is a crucial factor in improving our knowledge of bse as well as in its prevention and treatment .
that is why the efforts that have been made since 1997 in terms of research will be extended and broadened .
the current unpopularity of beef consumption is reflected in a significant imbalance in the market .
france has asked that the situation of the beef market be included on the agenda of the agriculture council , which will take place in brussels on 20 and 21 november .
this very day in brussels , the experts on the standing veterinary committee at the european commission have been meeting with a view to preparing ways of extending the european programme for carrying out screening tests on cattle .
this meeting of veterinary experts at the commission is especially useful in the run-up to the next agriculture council , which will take place on 20 and 21 november under the chairmanship of my fellow minister , jean glavany .
the results of this first debate will be presented to the council on 20 november .
the key issue is to restore the confidence of european consumers in beef .
the presidency has also planned to hold , during the same meeting , an open debate on food safety on the basis of work in progress , current developments regarding the crisis and recent proposals from the commission on hygiene and food law , particularly on setting up a european food agency .
all these measures relate to bse in both cattle and sheep and to scrapie in small ruminants .
by the same token , the commission has put forward measures on food hygiene , which are under examination both in the council and in parliament .
the commission ' s very recent proposal on food law and the setting up of a european food agency will be debated extensively during the internal market , consumers and tourism council to be held on 30 november , which i will be chairing , with a view to devising guidelines for the operation of this agency .
the european parliament recently took up a position on the commission white paper , which foreshadows the establishment of this agency .
i am sure that your parliamentary calendar will take full account of the need to move ahead more quickly so that , as suggested by the commission , we can have a european food agency by 2002 .
as soon as this proposal to set up the european food agency was presented by the commission on 8 november , the presidency enlisted the work of the council .
two meetings of the council group were held on 9 and 14 november to prepare the general debate , which will take place on 30 november in the council .
the european food agency will also provide clear and accessible information on issues arising out of its mandate .
however , events in france over the past week clearly call for an earlier discussion of these events .
there has been a worrying increase in the number of cases of bse detected in france over the past year , in part due to the introduction of targeted testing .
clearly , we need to look at these developments and draw the appropriate lessons .
however , this relatively low incidence is no reason for complacency .
the fact is that the incidence is rising in several member states .
let me briefly outline my main observations in this respect .
all member states should follow the french example .
i will return to this point later .
a lack of clarity and transparency in addressing the issue has contributed hugely to this unfortunate situation .
finally , we must not overlook the huge progress in recent years , in the past year in particular , in putting in place a framework to tackle bse .
inspired by this parliament , the commission has been the driving force in pressing for the adoption of measures to eradicate bse .
and this was done notwithstanding the frequent lack of support in member states .
the proposal adopted by the commission last week on the establishment of a european food authority is an even more significant initiative .
i expect a strong endorsement of the commission 's proposals on the food authority from the european council in nice - and i note what you , madam president , said on that issue only very recently .
parliament can equally signal its commitment to the proposal by giving it the highest priority with a view to its adoption in the shortest possible time .
the commission view that targeted testing is essential in establishing a true picture of the real incidence of bse in the community has been fully vindicated by the test results in france .
the commission intends to put proposals to the agriculture council on monday next , which will fully answer public demands in this respect .
the implications of recent events for the community measures on meat-and-bone meal are also at issue .
clearly , explanations are necessary for the increased incidence of bse , not only in france but also in other member states .
i look forward to the forthcoming opinion of afssa , the french food safety agency , which will help inform the decision of the french authorities on whether this provisional measure needs to be continued .
the evidence still strongly suggests that the increased incidence in some member states has its origin in the period before the introduction of reinforced controls in 1996 and subsequently .
and it is certainly the case that the current controls are very strict .
it is unacceptable on public health grounds .
the commission , for its part , will continue to impress on member states the importance of this issue .
the commission 's food and veterinary office already affords top priority to member states ' controls in relation to protective measures against bse .
for example , the requirement to remove and destroy srms only entered into force from 1 october 2000 and i want urgent on-the-ground confirmation that this requirement is being enforced .
parliament 's assistance in this respect would also be most welcome in alerting the public in the member states to the importance of these controls .
this proposal provides the opportunity for putting in place a comprehensive framework to ensure that all the relevant issues relating to animal waste are addressed .
again , i hope to work with parliament in putting this proposal on the statute book as a matter of urgency .
let me add a few comments on what i said earlier in this respect .
in the situation confronting us it is always tempting to look to a magic solution , a solution which can , in one step , both eliminate risk and restore confidence .
this parliament also accepts that there is a place for meat-and-bone meal produced under safe conditions .
parliament acknowledged that in its report on bse in 1997 and i quote : " the recycling of carcasses and slaughter waste by the production of meat-and-bone meal for animal feed offers the best alternative on economic , environmental and health policy grounds . "
if there is a weakness in the controls , clearly there is a problem .
i welcome in this respect that prime minister jospin yesterday also announced a substantial strengthening of controls on the food chain including a big increase in staff .
i will be asking member states on monday if there are concerns that weaknesses in the implementation of controls over the past several years , in contravention of the community legislation in the matter , are a factor in the current increased incidence of bse .
finally , madam president , i would add that the commission has recently presented a proposal to parliament under codecision for a regulation on animal waste .
this proposal aims at putting in place a community framework which will address all relevant issues governing the treatment of animal waste , especially its use in animal feed .
it is notable that in the discussions that have taken place already on this proposal with the member states , a ban on the feeding of meat-and-bone meal to animals has not been suggested as a necessary measure .
instead , the consensus view is that the community must ensure that only material from animals fit for human consumption should be used in the production of meat-and-bone meal .
yes , difficult as it may be to believe , it took four years to agree a measure which i consider to be fundamental to public health protection .
parliament itself now has its opportunity to shape decisively the future direction of policy towards waste at community level .
madam president , the fact is that we would not have needed today 's debate at all if all the member states had immediately and fully implemented the requirements of the bse temporary committee of inquiry into bse and the bse follow-up committee of february and november 1997 .
i am also willing to concede that the commission , no doubt because of enormous pressure from the european parliament , has made great progress in recent years in gaining acceptance for the principle of precautionary consumer protection .
the public cannot understand why our legislative process is so slow in times of crisis .
that is also why i wish to say here that the commission must have powers at such times of crisis to take more rapid decisions in relation to infringements of community law or when there is an imminent risk of such infringement , and that it should be in a position to take action in the public interest or if public health is threatened .
that is why i specifically support the joint motion for a resolution calling on us to leave behind this atmosphere of suspicion and universally introduce rapid testing methods for bse not only for animals affected , not only for animals over 18 months , but for all animals involved in the food chain , if at all possible . ( applause ) this will give us a basis for more extensive and objective criteria for assessing the risk of bse or the absence of bse in member states and allow us to take new and more far-reaching decisions .
mr president-in-office , i specifically call on the council to make known its opinion on the tse regulation . ( applause ) we completed the first reading in may .
indeed , france has the right to ban animal meal for reasons of domestic policy .
but what may be right for france in this situation is not necessarily right for all member states .
i shall be quite open about this : what we will be calling for in the motion for a resolution tomorrow - a temporary general ban on the production and use of animal meal in feedingstuffs until all criteria relating to standards and safe origins have been met , together with the implementation of the commission proposal to eliminate affected animals for good - is hard for many member states , but we are going along with it because without society 's backing we will have problems in the long run .
however , it must also be possible to use animal parts approved for human consumption in animal feed as well in the future .
nor can i understand why france could not transpose the provisions on the pressure , temperature and heating time for the production of animal meal more quickly .
excuse me , mr president-in-office , if i make a rather heretical assumption , namely that you personally are certainly very interested in public health and in consumer health , but time and again i cannot help feeling that the council considers market organisation and economic aspects to be much more compelling .
the first is good legislation .
secondly , it is important to emphasise - and this is not some new idea - that anyone who consciously allows an animal that is sick , or that is suspected of being sick , to enter the food or feed chain is committing a criminal offence .
madam president , minister , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the commission and the european parliament have a duty to react in the face of the concern of consumers and european farmers over food safety .
the bse crisis is now a public health problem , if not a problem of society .
as a first step , our group is calling for the immediate imposition of systematic testing for bse throughout the european union and , at the same time , for the use of mbms in animal feed to be completely suspended on a temporary basis .
the practices of intensive farming have been the same everywhere .
so we must have an exact overview of the situation , country by country .
our group is calling for an immediate ban on mbms for all livestock as long as member states are unable to guarantee the implementation of laws preventing bse and the strict application of european directives .
commissioner , minister , we must have strict controls in order to guarantee that specified risk materials are separated out throughout the entire animal food chain .
the grass in our meadows , white clover and vetch - currently neglected by the cap - may provide satisfactory solutions for the safety of animal feed and human food .
it is possible to save livestock production by reforming an agricultural economic system which , even today , makes farmers and consumers hostages to multinationals that are more interested in profit than in food safety .
policies must change this situation so that those who are really responsible for this crisis can be penalised and so that precise decisions can make it possible for a first step to be taken towards ending this tragic crisis .
the work of this parliament ' s committee of enquiry contributed to the application of measures to protect consumer health : in particular by banning animal meal for cattle and through the compulsory labelling of beef .
it is therefore urgent that measures are taken to reassure consumers and to restore their confidence in food safety .
detection tests must also be extended to all cattle entering the human food chain .
the current crisis has led to a significant slump in sales and to a fall in prices , which are hurting livestock producers and all those involved in the beef sector .
selective aid , such as market support and a grass subsidy , are essential .
this has come to pass because the incompetence of governments has been aggravated by our own inability to respond to the twofold challenge before us : the health challenge and the economic challenge .
the reality is something else .
the scientific authorities clearly stated that the development of the disease in cattle was not under control and they pinpointed the alarming growth in the numbers of animals affected .
the labelling of beef that was agreed on , which is a minimum form of labelling and only came into force two and a half months ago , does not make it possible for the origin of animals to be adequately traced , and we were very slow to ban specified risk materials .
we need far-reaching measures to be adopted at a national and european level if we want to avoid economic bankruptcy and a major health scare .
we need to adopt the proposals put forward by the president-in-office of the european council , especially those banning animal meal in feed in all sectors of animal production .
the measures adopted by the french government in this regard are , as i said , inadequate .
firstly , as others have said before me , we must have systematic screening of all cattle slaughtered for consumption by european citizens .
this test can be developed on an industrial scale very quickly .
public opinion must be fully informed of the characteristics of the test i am talking about .
the french screening test for bse was developed at the cea ( a public-sector research institute ) .
the results of the european assessment , which were published in july 1999 , suggest that it is 10 to 300 times more sensitive than the three other tests assessed at the same time .
we sacrificed our soya , alfalfa and peas in the course of the com negotiations in marrakech .
this will only be possible if there is no longer any doubt in the public mind , in other words , if screening is , as i would insist , systematic .
and what about the labelling and traceability system , which will not be complete until 2003 , despite the risks for consumers and the absence of a total guarantee for livestock producers ?
we must acknowledge the special responsibility of the commission , as called for by the committee of enquiry of this parliament .
these are the real causes of the crisis , and it is only by tackling these causes that you will be able to permanently solve this appalling problem , which you helped to create .
madam president , on behalf of all livestock producers may i express my deep concern at the french government ban on meat-and-bone meal in animal feed .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , this debate has one thing in its favour ; that at least it is highlighting the differences of opinion that exist among us , especially between the council and the commission .
the health of european consumers must be a top priority in all decisions that are adopted .
the entire food chain is at the heart of this problem .
mr byrne , you are well aware that no mbms are completely safe .
but what we are certain of is that we must restore consumer confidence and support the farming sector .
i condemn the limitations and the worrying consequences of this policy .
european solidarity must also play a role , because our policy has exposed its inconsistencies : set-aside , animal meal for cattle , nitrates , pesticides .
the cap must be reorganised to encourage farmers .
the aim of this is to avoid not only microbiological but also chemical contamination of feedingstuffs in future .
regular and strict checks of technological standards and compliance with legislation on animal meal production should form part of a comprehensive safety concept .
madam president , we have certainly been through a lot with the bse crisis .
it has led to the resignation of a commission , a british government was voted out partly because of it and now there is an internal policy crisis in france - who knows where it will all end !
i tabled a question on the danger of bse in december 1995 , three months before the scandal broke .
madam president , one of the primary objectives of the european parliament , the commission and the council must continue to be guaranteeing food safety by enforcing effective laws and performing stringent controls which will restore consumer confidence .
we therefore need to develop an effective control system in all the member states of the european union .
madam president , i would like to go into the financial implications of the matter , partly in my capacity as rapporteur for the agricultural budget .
well then , council and commission , you have a fair amount of financial leeway on which to base your robust policy .
there is a general acknowledgement that bse , which began as a british disease and today is being presented as a french crisis , is really a european disease - a european problem - and it must be tackled on that basis .
many speakers have said that we need to extend the ban on meat-and-bone meal as a mammalian food stuff .
we must take precautions now , not just on behalf of those of us who are concerned , but on behalf of the complacent minority of member states as well .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i am happy to hear within this chamber that the cap must be changed at all costs .
it is outrageous that , after three bse crises in the space of a decade , no guilty party has been identified or brought to book .
madam president , i would like to make three points .
secondly , even before this crisis , the community suffered a serious deficit in vegetable proteins , since we accepted , at blair house , an incredible limitation on our oil-seed production to 30 % of our requirements , just to please the united states and its soya exporters .
now , the community cannot cultivate more than 5.5 million hectares of oil seeds , nor does it have the right to do so , even though our needs are in the order of 18 million hectares .
that is why food manufacturers have had to make extensive use of mbms in their products .
we denounced this here in parliament , when jimmy goldsmith was here .
we also ask that the disastrous blair house agreement , which binds our oil seed producers hand and foot , should be renegotiated within the framework of the com .
there are only declarations and opinions , but no decisions as regards directives or regulations .
we must reassure the public that the europe of rights does genuinely protect the rights enshrined in its treaties and in the fundamental charter of european rights .
i am sure , commissioner , that parliament will lend you all the support necessary for the new initiatives .
i feel that , until it is proved otherwise , a total ban on meat-and-bone meal has become necessary , just as the introduction of general testing and the harmonisation and effective implementation of community legislation in all the member states is necessary , and just as it is necessary not just to monitor the application of new labelling rules but to bring forward the introduction of these rules to the earliest possible juncture .
i will end by affirming this principle : the cost of these measures will certainly be very high , but our priority is health .
commissioner , i urge you to ensure that these tests are also carried out in other member states .
perhaps we should think about the victims for a change , and all the relatives of people who have died of creutzfeldt-jakob disease .
commissioner , i listened to what you said very carefully and was most surprised when , at one point in your speech , you said that you did not have a magic solution to this problem .
we want application , members of the council , we want action and we want it throughout the european union ; we do not want fragmented action by france or this or that country .
madam president , i am totally convinced that the union in its entirety lacks the political , moral and educational authority to talk about the quality and safety of food .
nor is it a coincidence that the president-in-office and the commissioner refrained from mentioning the main source of all of these problems in the food chain , which is , of course , the common agricultural policy itself .
parliament has voted half the budget to be spent on encouraging production .
we have already discussed the united kingdom and portugal in this chamber and now we are discussing france .
madam president , there is no let up in media interest in the bse issue .
the same goes for those dreadful pictures of people affected by the creutzfeldt-jakob disease , despite all the action taken in the member states , not to mention at eu level .
in the netherlands , the legislation governing the use of offal in animal feed is already relatively stringent as matters stand .
therefore , i am amazed , under these circumstances , that it is still permissible for corpses to be used or processed .
there is clearly a need for stringent european measures .
madam president , i speak today both as an mep and a beef farmer from the united kingdom .
the farming industry in britain has suffered greatly from the bse crisis , both financially and in terms of consumer confidence .
however , we have learnt a great deal over the years as to how to put our house in order .
recently , the phillips inquiry into bse has been published in the uk .
the french government should also read this report because they are in danger of making exactly the same mistakes as were made in the uk at the time of our bse crisis .
furthermore , the recent tests that have been carried out in france of fallen stock have shown several hidden cases of bse .
in britain we have also learnt that it is very difficult to stop meat-and-bone meal , that is produced and incorporated in the feedingstuffs for pigs and poultry , also - either by accident or by intention - landing up in feed for cattle and ruminants .
it is very difficult for a feed mill to guarantee that its production lines are completely cleared of meat-and-bone meal before they start manufacturing feedingstuffs for pigs and poultry .
i have long been of the opinion that a complete ban on the use of meat-and-bone meal in animal feeds should be in place throughout europe .
one of the main reasons for this action is that the french food agency takes the precautionary principle very seriously .
i would suggest that the european commission also use the precautionary principle in regard to beef from france .
the united kingdom has suffered with this terrible plague .
commissioner byrne was very strong today in his opening statement when he said to the house that he was prepared to look at this matter of meat-and-bone meal and take it on .
it is imperative upon government authorities , be they national or european .
i believe that we must now try , following your debates , to define the key ways , in terms of both method and means , in order to ensure compliance with this imperative .
the presidency believes that this method is based on scientific research and consultation .
you have dealt with all these problems in turn .
some countries have already gone down this road .
so there are doubts , there are uncertainties , but i believe that our joint text and your debates here in this house have enabled us to make progress .
i believe we should have a single , comprehensive set of laws , which can be applied to meet this demand and thereby avoid distortions of competition , thus making it possible for the single market to operate smoothly .
rest assured that , when it comes to continuing the work in the council and my exchanges with the commission , i will bear all this in mind , in the full knowledge that reaching agreement within the institutions is one of the best ways of dealing with a problem as complex and universal as that of food safety .
on 30 november , during the council meeting , the french presidency will launch an important debate with a view to providing the first responses to a situation of widespread suspicion , which calls into question the credibility of our institutions in the eyes of our citizens .
we are talking about public health , and hence of serious events , which must be treated as such , in a strict and , of course , transparent manner .
one thing i can say with conviction is that i am aware that all these people before me are experts on the question of food safety .
i am struck by one thing that is particularly important in this context , that is , that the spectrum of debate , particularly on the issue of whether there should be a total ban on meat-and-bone meal goes all the way from " do it " to " don 't do it " - in a chamber filled with experts on food safety .
what we must bear in mind when considering this issue is the fact that there is already in existence a ban on the provision of meat-and-bone meal to cattle .
in addition , there is legislation in place setting out how the meat-and-bone meal , how this feed , is to be processed - another safeguard that is introduced into the system to protect public health and food safety .
by saying that you must ban meat-and-bone meal from feed for pigs and poultry that cannot contract bse by this vector , what you are saying is not that you are protecting pigs and poultry , but that you are protecting cattle .
it raises the question that i am afraid to even ask .
i believe that there has been compliance with the legislation and if i believe that - and i do not think i am being naive - i do not believe that it is essential to have a widespread ban on meat-and-bone meal to be fed to pigs and poultry .
if there is a widespread adverse reaction against the authorities in france for doing the right thing , i hope it does not instil timidity in other member states when they do exactly the same .
the tests that i am referring to now are somewhat different .
it has been said that this will be very expensive , will involve a large number of carcasses and so on .
the three tests available - french , swiss and irish - are unable to detect bse in animals under a certain age .
it is important that we try and achieve a consensus as to the right way forward and find proportionate responses and not make accusations to others who , when they identify a proportionate response , say that you are not doing enough to protect consumer public health and consumer protection .
we must make sure we are fair to one another in identifying these measures which all of us believe to be necessary , because the aim of this exercise is the protection of public health and food safety and the enhancement of consumer confidence .
madam president , i would like to make a very brief personal statement , since our fellow member , mr graefe zu baringdorf , has attacked the members of my group for not taking part in the committee of enquiry into bse .
we did not take part in the second committee of enquiry quite simply because we were excluded by the operation of the d 'hondt law and by the rules of procedure , or lack of them , in this parliament .
in any event , mr martinez gave his formal warning in 1990 , a full 6 years before the first committee of enquiry .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
question no 17 by ( h-0848 / 00 ) : subject : minimum standards governing the expulsion of immigrants the council meeting of 18 december 1997 adopted a resolution laying down the priorities for cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs for the period from 1 january 1998 to the date of entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam , which clearly set out the objective of ' improving cooperation regarding the expulsion of ...
mr president , in my contribution to a secular miracle , i wish to say that , with regard to the harmonisation of asylum policy , the main measures that the union will be adopting are defined not only in the vienna action plan and in the conclusions of the tampere european council , but are also part of the scoreboard that the commission presented to the council and to the european parliament , and will develop in two basic stages .
in the later , more long-term stage , the objective will be to define a fully comprehensive common asylum system .
with regard specifically to the issue of its legal basis , article 63 ( 3 ) ( b ) of the treaty establishing the european community provides for the adoption of measures on illegal immigration and on illegal residence in the union ' s countries , including measures on the repatriation of illegal residents .
the commission considers that readmission agreements have an important role to play in clarifying and coordinating these policies , and the first community readmission agreements are currently being negotiated with russia , sri lanka , pakistan and morocco .
the commission hopes that , under the 2001 budget , a financial cooperation instrument will be adopted with the countries of origin and of transit , enhancing their powers in the field of readmission and of voluntary return .
with regard to future policy , it is the commission ' s view that in view of the need for an overall and coherent strategy in the field of repatriation , we must aim above all to prioritise voluntary repatriation .
bearing this voluntary repatriation in mind , i would remind the house that the european fund for refugees provides for specific financial measures to support the development of member states ' policies on repatriation , and that , with regard to the way this repatriation is carried out , i share the concerns expressed by mrs cerdeira morterero about the need for us to adopt common minimum standards establishing dignified and humane procedures and conditions for repatriation .
i am convinced that this will be a worthy topic for the commission ' s work programme for 2001 .
on 12 december in palermo , the united nations is going to sign the world convention on organised crime with a protocol on the traffic in human beings .
there is a direct relationship between organised crime and immigration .
the solutions that the commission will be proposing are fully in line with the content of the united nations convention , which i hope will be signed in palermo in the week of 12 to 15 december .
allow me to remind you that , following beijing and again in new york this year , the whole world reiterated that all these issues were human rights issues and should be treated as such , as violations of human rights .
the commission approved a pan-european policy to combat trafficking in human beings back in 1996 , with particular emphasis on the issue of women , who are the worst hit by this scourge .
questions nos 19 , 20 and 21 will be replied to in writing .
question no 22 by ( h-0809 / 00 ) : subject : monetary policy and the role of the commission during a debate in the european parliament ' s committee on constitutional affairs , former commission president jacques delors said that the commission ought to be responsible for public announcements concerning european policy on the state of the single currency and fluctuations in the exchange rate .
a problem of greater consequence is how to make a single monetary policy compatible with economic policies that are national in accordance with the treaty .
we mean to carry out this coordination basically through the instrument of major economic policy guidelines , which are applicable in each member state that approves them and which include not only the major lines of economic policy but also specific recommendations for each member state .
the aim during this period has been to reduce government deficit in order to achieve a more flexible monetary policy , lower interest rates and greater growth .
we hope next year we will achieve a zero deficit situation .
in these circumstances , as the body basically responsible for economic policy coordination , we in eurogroup are planning to take our fiscal obligations further and , above all , improve the quality and sustainability of public finances , which will certainly mean an improvement in the stability and growth pact and the tackling of more exacting topics with greater content .
but i do not think you know how to explain this or you dare not do so , and anyway , the fundamental problem with the fall in the euro in fact lies in the lack of confidence in a common policy , because the member states resist accepting the strategic and political reality of the euro ' s actual existence .
in overall terms , the euro effect must be seen as a total , absolute success : we have managed to improve growth , improve the conditions for stability in our economy , we have managed to keep inflation down to a relatively low level despite the risks we are facing , and we are achieving the basic objective , which is to keep inflation under control .
in 1999 , we set in motion a number of specific programmes in cooperation with parliament to publicise the euro as thoroughly as possible .
i always say that the euro will not be introduced on 1 january 2002 : the euro is already in our pockets ; we have it in coins of different guises , but we already have it in our pockets .
whereas in 2000 we have devoted more attention to small- and medium-sized enterprises , 2001 must be the year of the people .
you too are receiving this information on the current situation of each plan for changing over to the physical euro in each of the member states , so that everybody can choose the best practices in one country or another and we can all make as much progress as we can together and achieve the best possible results before the end of next year .
question no 23 will be replied to in writing .
in relation to directive 96 / 62 on ambient air quality assessment and management , the commission has brought a case against greece for non-transposition before the court of justice .
i am hopeful that this situation will improve with the implementation of other community initiatives such as the recent agreement on the commission 's proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings .
in addition , daughter directive 99 / 30 must be transposed in member states by 19 july 2001 .
this situation is expected to improve with the implementation of community legislation , for example , in the transport sector .
however , the greek authorities will have to take supplementary measures at local level to ensure that the new air quality standards are respected .
questions nos 25 to 28 will be replied to in writing .
in other words , investments may constitute aid when they finance production projects which are not financed by the networks in the absence of a legal obligation .
commissioner , could you clarify whether , in this case , there is not a contradiction with the fact that ' television without borders ' also helps to produce the content of the works .
in the same decision , the commission undertook to review the aid schemes in all the member states on the basis of the specific compatibility criteria approved until 2004 , the date on which the validity of the authorisation for the french support scheme will expire .
this bilateral approach simply aims to examine the conformity of the different schemes with the prototype which was established at the time the decision was taken to approve the french scheme , based on the four specific compatibility criteria .
questions nos 30 to 59 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , commissioner , the european union charter of fundamental rights says in its preamble : ' it places the individual at the heart of its activities , by establishing the citizenship of the union and by creating an area of freedom , security and justice ' , and in its first article it adds : ' human dignity is inviolable .
i bring in this quotation from the charter of fundamental rights because some situations described in this magnificent report - i congratulate the rapporteur on it - are probably incompatible with this declaration that has just been willingly adopted by this parliament .
compared with these statements , reality is stubborn .
eurostat data tells us that 18 % of the population of the european union live on less than 60 % of average national income or , in other words , 65 million europeans are living in poverty .
naturally the national poverty rates are varied and different , as are the types of poverty : urban , in industrial slums , in isolated rural areas , etc . , or the poverty linked to sex or age discrimination - i am referring , of course , to poverty among women and child poverty .
today ' s worlds , the society of globalisation and the world economy , the society of information and technological development , may also have a not very positive influence and create , or help to create , new forms of poverty , on account of the intrinsic difficulties in this kind of society in opening up access to employment - to me this is the fundamental route to social integration and inclusion - and because of the need to improve employment and obtain higher-quality jobs .
to achieve a europe that encourages integration , in the words of the lisbon european council , requires joint effort and joint action .
mr president , i would first of all like to thank our rapporteur and welcome the initiative she has taken to engage in dialogue with the council and the commission immediately following this first reading in order to work towards ensuring that better consideration is given to the amendments desired by parliament .
this is not self-evident as this new growth is very unfair and , as we have seen in the united states for some ten years now , may be accompanied by persistent insecure employment , exclusion , poverty and urban ghettoisation .
growth will take place under conditions inherited from the crisis : a lot of jobs are being created , but there have never been so many insecure jobs , temporary jobs and imposed part-time work .
this community programme does not aim to take it entirely upon itself to combat exclusion in the european union , but it must make it possible for europe to take action in a more determined , effective and coordinated way .
to achieve this , it must be closely linked to the commitment that the heads of state and government made in lisbon in march 2000 to give a decisive boost to eliminating poverty by setting proper objectives which must be approved by the council by the end of the year , in other words , before the nice european council , which will take place in a few weeks ' time .
thirdly , by helping to assess the impact of government policies that are being pursued in the different member states in order to draw lessons , establish good practices and reflect on good strategies and , in particular , their consistency with other economic and social policies .
it is the answers to such questions that we shall find in this programme , designed to promote cooperation on the part of the member states in combating social exclusion .
the idea is that all interested and concerned parties should be involved in a type of work in which the individual countries describe the extent of social exclusion and their efforts to combat it .
the commission experimented with a definition in its consultation document for the lisbon summit , proceeding on the basis that the excluded are those who have an income of less than 60 % of average earnings in the country concerned .
the governments of the member states did not accept this definition , which is also rather simplistic and unduly bland .
mr president , i wish to congratulate the rapporteur for her great commitment in dealing with this report on a programme of community action for combating social exclusion in which , as many have said , poverty can be an important factor .
we are told that finding paid work is the best way of preventing social exclusion but i would agree with those who have said that we would have to take account of the fact that gainful employment alone is no guarantee of social participation .
if we are going to avoid social exclusion we have to ensure that our macroeconomic policies do not act in a way which increases social exclusion .
it would be totally counterproductive to have policies which undermine local economic development , make employment less secure but more demanding and then have to mop up the casualties through programmes which try to combat poverty and social exclusion .
in spite of the fact that there is money around and in spite of the fact that europe has never been richer , it appears to be more and more difficult to protect the weak and give the marginalised a proper chance .
all these groups are threatened by social exclusion if very extensive measures of support are not provided .
however , the figures on poverty in europe , upon which our report is based and which have been mentioned today - the 18 % poverty line - are evidence of a situation which is anything but exciting .
to guarantee rights , to establish coordination , to create committees to study the situation and draw up action plans to combat social exclusion , to promote dialogue between the parties concerned and to create ngo networks at european level , and for this we will appropriate eur 70 million or maybe eur 100 million .
if we want to find the resources to give to the pensioners with the most paltry pensions , we must have the courage to admit that we need to stop people retiring at 50 years old and , in all probability , create a completely new social security system .
these 65 million people are often overlooked .
if we are to achieve the economic and social cohesion to which we aspire we need not just a high level of employment , but also a high level of social protection .
the benefits of synergy are felt when member states ' measures are linked with community policies , actions and instruments and with the european structural funds .
i regard it as essential to set up a reflection group at european level with representatives of the ngos , the social partners , the council and the european parliament taking part in an annual round table .
the concept of open coordination in employment policy since luxembourg needs to incorporate exclusion and to be reflected in the member states ' national action plans .
in 1992 , the council called on the member states to combat social exclusion .
we should reinforce this active role as from 2001 , in order to give those afflicted by poverty and social exclusion access to economic , social and cultural activities .
europe has managed to avoid the economic crises that have hit many parts of the world over recent years .
well over half of the 14 million unemployed , according to eurostat 's latest figures , have been out of work for over a year .
furthermore , according to the eu 's statistical service , 18 % of european citizens live below the poverty line , while one-third of those living in poverty are working .
in my own country something like 75 % of those who are working and living below the poverty line are women .
the situation seems to be getting worse .
it is imperative , however , that member states engage fully with this programme and consult widely with civil society to establish ambitious targets for eliminating poverty and exclusion .
every year , my friends mr thomas mann and mr mario mantovani and i go to the poor sisters ' institute in brussels to serve meals to the town 's poor tramps , and our hearts bleed and we feel guilty that we are only able to do this once a year : we would like to be able to do it every day but , in all honesty , it would be impossible .
social security policy is also an important area .
mr president , eurostat states quite clearly that around 18 % of the european union ' s population live on less than 60 % of the average national income .
this represents around 75 million european citizens .
to this we must add the fact that more than 10 million people depend on assistance from social welfare systems , in a situation which is growing worse in most member states .
this report is extremely important because it aims to improve the circumstances of the most underprivileged , thereby representing one more step towards strengthening social cohesion .
this is an ambitious programme of community action which , in line with the commission ' s proposal , will be given budgetary appropriations of eur 70 million and should remain in force for a period of five years .
the beneficiaries of this programme should be the victims of poverty and social exclusion , and we must prevent this from becoming in practice merely a means of financing bodies which investigate the problems of poverty and social exclusion .
mr president , i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent contribution to identifying the causes and the scale of poverty , which is an appropriate term for a social reality whose cruelty should not be watered down into a concept as wide-ranging and abstract as social exclusion .
i support the commission ' s initiative to create a programme which meets the objectives of the treaty ' s new social agenda , and which puts the lisbon decisions into practice .
i urge the council to establish quantifiable goals , and specific , cross-sector action programmes to combat exclusion , based on indicators which provide considerable information so that closer cooperation can be translated into tangible and effective action , more in the social results that it achieves than in satisfying electoral needs .
i therefore support the rapporteur in stressing that the programme , or rather the programme 's role , will facilitate greater social cohesion where the poor and the marginalised are concerned .
as is stated in the amendments which i tabled in committee and which were subsequently adopted , i am convinced that an effective , practical fight against poverty must take place according to a timetable of events and targets .
in fact , a programme with in-built deadlines and checks is easier to assess in terms of quantity and quality .
it must be taken into consideration that over 65 million people in the european union - 7.5 million of which live in my country , italy - live on a low income , and a low income in italy , commissioner , means a family living on an income of eur 750 .
these figures suggest that the budget made available for the programme will be totally insufficient .
it is a very important and constructive contribution and it supports the commission proposal for a joint decision of the council and parliament which will establish a community action programme to combat social exclusion .
after the treaty of amsterdam and some months after the lisbon council , we all know that a new context has been created for community action in the area of social policies and social exclusion and social protection .
there is a shift in the political debate at the european level and we can see that there is a strong will to combine social cohesion and competition .
the proposed action programme has a legal basis , article 137 of the treaty of amsterdam , and we had a new mandate after the lisbon council .
this programme has been designed to support implementation of the open coordination method which means that it will be possible to improve knowledge , to develop exchange of information and best practice and to evaluate experience to better combat social exclusion .
there has been a very interesting debate on the role of employment in combating social exclusion and the role of the social reforms and of the structural reforms .
i would like to inform members of parliament that , on 4 december , there will be a discussion in the committee on employment and social affairs on the new social agenda and on what we have achieved during the last year .
as far as the proposed programme is concerned and the report of parliament , i am particularly happy at your strong overall support for this proposal .
i also agree to highlight the importance of ngos as well as of regional and local actors as you suggest , and of better reflecting their experience on the ground .
there is a reference to the use of the word " poverty . "
of course , social exclusion is the wider notion and social exclusion has three main dimensions : poverty , discrimination and lack of opportunities .
this is a legalistic problem because , according to the treaty 's wording , the reference concerns only social exclusion and not poverty .
however , i am not able to accept an increase in the budget from eur 70 million to eur 100 million .
the budget that we propose is adapted to the aim of the programme and this aim is to encourage cross-national cooperation and mutual learning and not to fund actions on the ground .
through the social fund and through the equal initiative member states ' ngos can be funded for particular projects for particular actions on the ground .
we cannot accept this proposal because it is against the comitology rules .
the social protection committee plays a key role in the development of policies of the european council .
close cooperation between the contact group and the social protection committee will ensure the exchange of views between the council and parliament .
on the other hand there could be a link between the contact group and the commission 's officials on a regular basis .
i believe that these proposals constitute a pragmatic response to your request .
for procedural and institutional reasons it is not possible to incorporate them in the text of the decision .
to sum up , out of the 75 amendments you have proposed , i can accept either as drafted or in spirit 48 of them , namely : amendments nos 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 13 , 15 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 27 , 29 , 31 , 37 , 42 , 46 , 48 , 51 , 58 , 59 , 60 , 61 , 65 , 66 , 68 and 74 .
i can also accept parts of amendments nos 14 , 36 , 40 , 45 , 53 , 63 , 64 , 70 , 71 , 72 and 73 .
it is true that there is a complexity in the whole procedure but all three institutions wish to reach an agreement as soon as possible .
thank you very much , commissioner diamantopoulou .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
the proposal for a directive is a logical consequence of the european union 's strategy to double the share of renewables in energy consumption by 2010 .
this means that promoting renewables compensates for the external costs of other energy sources , takes into account the positive environmental effects of this type of energy production and , at the same , time makes up for existing distortions in competition .
we need binding targets right now .
the european union and all the member states entered into commitments at kyoto because they recognised the dramatic nature of climate change .
in the hague , the western industrialised nations are currently again being pilloried because they are only implementing those commitments half-heartedly .
if we define a clear , binding framework for the member states , then there should be a longer evaluation period for the various support systems required to satisfy these requirements .
we want to convince people in europe to switch to energy sources which nature renews afresh every day , which do not entail any environmental disruption or climate change , and which make a positive contribution to reducing co2 emissions .
even if only hydroelectric installations with a capacity below 10 mw are to be covered by the support schemes , all hydro will , of course , be regarded as a renewable energy source and will count towards achieving the target .
another vital point that the committee agreed on was the problem of connection to the grid and access to the grid for renewables .
the commission 's general text on the issue of cost sharing in the report makes matters substantially clearer .
this is a summit which intends to slow down climate change and at which the kyoto protocol will undergo its ordeal by fire .
in addition , the latest conclusions reached by scientists on the intergovernmental panel on climate change alert us to its alarming effects .
we trust that the directive will help these as yet incipient forms of energy to develop and become competitive and that the commission will soon present us with a similar proposal on biofuels .
this document is unacceptable because of the way it proposes to treat operating aid for renewable energy sources and cogeneration , since it does not recognise the different degree of competitiveness between these renewable energy sources and conventional ones .
in addition , it is inconceivable that the directorate-general for competition should move to regulate this kind of aid without taking into account the results of negotiations pertaining to the directive we have before us , and at the very least it can be seen as a snub to parliament .
the directive on renewable sources of energy represents a belief in the future and an investment in the environment .
i am going to repeat three of our demands .
after all , on the one hand , this directive is an important element in the series of measures taken to enable us to honour the commitment the eu entered into in kyoto regarding the reduction of greenhouse gases and , on the other , it is a praiseworthy attempt to reduce the european union ' s dependence on the oil-producing countries .
needless to say , the controversial issue in this report is that to do with the stipulation of binding target figures .
in fact the crux of the report is whether it makes any sense or not to have these binding target figures .
mr president , commissioner , mrs rothe , what we need is a clear definition of what is renewable .
i do not agree with mr beysen ; a liberal should be in favour of the fewest possible distortions in the market .
if we do not have clear objectives , there will be distortion between those countries which do something to promote renewable energies and those countries which do not do enough .
i do not want electricians to cause interference between the two systems and to sow confusion and doubt amongst investors in europe by short-circuiting and manipulating the system of guaranteed prices .
not only must guaranteed prices be tolerated , they must be protected by the directive .
that is what politics is all about : making competition possible between the two instruments by protecting guaranteed prices and harmonising certificate-related issues .
renewable energies is a subject which unites the citizens of europe at a time when europe is finding it difficult to get its citizens to support greater integration .
mr president , the dependence of the member states of the union on imported energy is massive and is growing all the time .
those countries that burn oil or gas themselves should not prohibit us from burning peat .
for example , waste incineration must not be called sustainable as a matter of course .
over the last 18 months we have seen the price of crude oil rise from usd 9.75 to usd 33 a barrel .
mr president , commissioner , we warmly support the draft directive for electricity from renewable energy sources .
it seems a pity to exclude any category which can contribute to the overall achievement of energy from waste - whether it is for small-scale projects or part of the overall calculation .
the key issue , however , that divides us is the question of the binding nature of the targets .
we have grave reservations about this being in conflict with the principle of subsidiarity .
it could scupper this directive , but we also think it is a matter of practicality .
the third point in issue here is the length of support programmes .
for us an annual growth limit in peat is quite enough .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the use of sustainable renewable energy sources must be one of the principle objectives of a modern energy policy in europe as well , but there must also be obligations and certainties , dictated by common sense , of course .
in this sense , hydroelectric power is important , and it has been both a burden and a blessing for the mountain peoples , for they have had to pay a very high price for their land and have watched local industrialisation processes spring up , associated precisely with the presence of this energy source .
one farmer in my locality with a wind project was quoted over eur 2 million for a connection and this is clearly a problem that i would like addressed .
mr president , increasing the proportion of electricity from renewable energy sources is a good move .
the share of renewable energy sources proposed , 22 % by 2010 , compared with 13.9 % now , is particularly ambitious and i am just wondering whether a directive which focuses on the market and makes no provision for parallel measures such as support for research will suffice in order to achieve it .
the directive talks about support systems , basically a premium paid to companies which operate in this sector , and relies on so-called market mechanisms for the final solution .
since , at the same time , the eu has to adhere to the climatic targets set at kyoto , it is especially important that we invest more and more in research into renewables .
the debate on renewable energy sources must not become a form of populism against nuclear energy .
the total deregulation of the electricity markets is also one precondition of the increased use of renewables .
this fight represents a pointless or impossible struggle against all that we take for granted .
sustainable energy can contribute to fair distribution between countries .
the climate conference has just started in the hague .
our objectives in the field of sustainable energy are ambitious , yet still modest in the context of the climate problems we face .
sustainable energy is often associated with small-scale solutions : solar panels on everyone ' s roof and a windmill in every village .
mr president , on a final note , i would very much like to thank the rapporteur for her worthwhile contribution to this topic .
mr president , i too would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work in connection with this report .
a really excellent proposal has been produced , thanks to cooperation .
increasing the use of renewable energy can reduce dependence on oil and also create jobs in sparsely populated regions .
i only wish that this directive were part of a coherent long-term energy strategy of the union .
instead , proposals related to energy are submitted one at a time and without much consistency .
all new technologies are expensive in the beginning .
but experience tells us from almost every possible field that every time demand increases by 100 % costs come down by an estimated 10 to 15 % .
hence , i am optimistic about the future potential for renewables provided the right incentives are put in place .
the good proposal that you have put forward , commissioner de palacio - and i should like to pay tribute to your realism as regards energy - and the excellent report by mrs rothe are a step in the right direction by promoting renewable energies .
free competition does not solve all the problems and , more especially , it does not settle the fight against the greenhouse effect or against waste .
i would like to conclude simply by mentioning three problems which have come up time and time again throughout this debate .
the second problem is that of household waste : strictly speaking it is not a renewable energy , but one must guard against sending a negative signal as regards the incineration of household waste .
finally , as far as the degree of constraint is concerned , i will simply say - because i do not have any more time - that an objective in itself is never constraining : it is an objective and everything must be done to achieve it .
this is what we must do at a european level .
i have just come from an opec meeting , and the price of usd 30 for crude oil provides us with an opportunity to make totally new investments in this sector .
particularly in the field of research and development , it is important that , in future , we should pay more attention to renewable energy , and i especially have in mind gas from landfill sites and sewage treatment plants , for which there is a role in this regard .
i am convinced that in all energy-related matters we should be aware that either we improve our sources or we shall leave the planet earth uninhabitable within a few generations .
in my opinion , it is fundamental that we should ensure support for these kinds of energy sources for a considerable period of time , thus allowing our industries to make decisive , long-term investments in this alternative energy .
i believe a stable framework for energy from renewable sources needs to be guaranteed within ten years at least ; this is a proposal we should all support .
with regard to our targets in this field , we have to listen to the people and go beyond the commission ' s proposal of 21 % , which i think is very positive overall , and increase the renewable portion of the total electricity produced .
this commission proposal is being presented in circumstances which , while in many ways may be negative for many aspects of our economies and our lives , i believe are positive in terms of this particular initiative .
a dramatic increase in the price of oil without doubt starkly highlights the problems relating to our dependence on energy from fossil fuels .
firstly , we must increase the production of green electricity and then we must deal with issues relating to the market .
this proposal offers a certain degree of legislative certainty and , at the same time , it respects the principle of subsidiarity , by providing the member states with the degree of autonomy necessary to take account of their specific circumstances until such time as we can see , according to the way events progress , which is the best way to promote the installation of electricity sources .
as you know , the commission intends shortly to adopt a green paper on the availability of energy supply and compliance with the kyoto objectives and the commitments made there by the european union .
we believe that these are two fundamental aspects , of different types but equally important .
the european union , which flies the flag in the fight against climate change and in the reduction of emissions , must not be the first to fail to comply with its own objectives and its own commitments .
as a second issue , the availability of supply is a key element in guaranteeing economic development , the well-being of our countries and of the union as a whole .
i would like to stress this - as some speakers have done - but i would also like to say that it is not a question of opposing any particular energy source or waging a war against it in favour of another .
furthermore , renewable energy sources are a factor in the availability of supply , and we therefore have an enormous potential for production within the european union .
with regard to the amendments that have been tabled , please let me tell you that their number is simply extraordinary and this demonstrates parliament ' s great interest in this issue .
they also show that there are differing opinions on the best way to promote this type of electricity .
nevertheless , we all agree that in europe we must speed up and intensify the production of this type of energy and that this requires effort .
in our fight to create a strong and dynamic green electricity market , the first thing we have to do is listen , so that we can learn from each other .
i have noticed that there are two trends of opinion , with opposing approaches , on this issue .
the first stresses the rapid introduction of market forces , while the second underlines the need to establish transitional periods and active public aid .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in its proposal the commission is trying to retain the best elements of these two approaches with the aim of producing a balanced text , but i must also make it very clear that a priority objective at the moment is the promotion and development of renewable energy .
therefore , issues concerning the market are of secondary importance .
they are an objective which must not be forgotten but they are not the priority objective of this initiative , which is fundamentally the development and increased use of renewable energy sources .
amendments nos 1 , 2 , 8 , 20 and 21 highlight the need for a policy favourable to green electricity and its many advantages and can be immediately accepted by the commission .
as for amendment no 5 , i am happy to tell you that , given the importance of this issue , the commission is studying the possibility of presenting a new directive on biofuels generated from renewable energy sources , specifically from biomass , from agricultural products , which will simplify some of the problems which have been raised .
when we start to talk about the targets for electricity generated from renewable energy sources , we first must agree on what we understand by renewable energy sources .
this is of fundamental importance in order to lay the foundations for the future market and some of you have already mentioned this matter .
neither can the commission accept peat , since it is clearly a fossil fuel , although it is generated more quickly , but it is fossil nonetheless .
the reference to waste , with no other classification , as a source of renewable energy - as i said a moment ago - is inadequate and contrary to the policy of management of solid waste .
the commission rejects this part of amendment no 27 , amendments nos 11 , 54 , 55 , 61 and amendment no 57 , which are all related to it .
the commission also believes that all electricity generated from renewable energy sources and used in hybrid power plants must be considered as green electricity and not only that to be used as reserve power .
the annex to the commission ' s proposal includes the indicative targets with regard to the national level of consumption of green electricity necessary for achieving the total quota of 22.1 % for the whole of the european union by 2010 , in accordance with the objectives laid down in the white paper of 1997 .
in this context , i must point out two issues .
ladies and gentlemen , i would also like to suggest mandatory targets but we have to be realistic and , although i regret this , i cannot , at this time , accept this suggestion that you have made , because it would be automatically rejected by the member states .
this is the first time in a union directive that national targets of this type are being considered .
these are not obligations which must be fulfilled but national targets .
when the report which must be produced on compliance and the development of renewable energy in the various countries indicates that a certain country is clearly failing to comply with those targets , proposals will be made to parliament and the council to correct the situation .
those would evidently be mandatory targets for that state , so that it complies with them , so that in this way it complies with these targets , which are targets and not obligations .
the task we are taking on by means of this directive must be based on transparent measures , which increase confidence , but this process would probably never take off if we impose binding targets in its text .
with regard to the calculation , our calculation of 22.1 % , instead of the 23.5 % established in 1997 , is a response to issues of credibility .
the figures we are presenting here are not arbitrary or mere whims but are instead a response to the real situation as we find it .
for this reason , we cannot support the amendments which propose legally binding targets - the creation of the committee or the target of 23.5 % - and therefore we must reject for the time being amendments nos 6 , 9 , 12 , 25 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 , 35 , 50 , 51 , 52 , 67 and 68 .
in relation to the support systems , this is the second group of amendments where the commission considered it premature to propose a harmonised support system , but stated that , if necessary , it will present a proposal of this type in accordance with certain principles .
we therefore support amendments nos 36 and 56 and also certain aspects of amendments nos 4 , 15 and 62 , relating to the idea of internalising external costs and compensating for external costs which are not covered in favour of renewable energy sources .
neither can we accept the part of amendment no 37 which demands that the future harmonised support system satisfies the need for the internalisation of external costs , since this could only be done through fiscal harmonisation which exceeds the scope of the future proposal in this respect .
on the other hand , we could accept amendments nos 10 and 59 , which state that investment aid to large hydroelectric plants would only be possible in the event that they contribute to improving the environment .
large hydroelectric plants , in principle , are broadly viable in themselves and have very high environmental costs .
amendment no 53 would mean excluding all competitive forms of renewable energy from the subsidies and other advantages and , therefore , the commission cannot accept its wording .
with regard to the principles on which the future harmonised support system must be based , the commission can accept the parts of amendments nos 37 and 38 which stipulate that such a system must take account of the environmental objectives of the treaty , the experience acquired with the support systems , which have proven to be effective and positive , as well as geographical conditions .
however , the commission cannot accept parts of amendments nos 37 and 38 and amendment no 39 , insofar as they prejudge the type of system which must be applied or they require that there should be no distortion to the biomass market .
the commission can accept the need for the current support systems in the transitional systems already considered in article 4 ( d ) of its proposal .
however , while doing so , the commission is very conscious that the terms used should not prejudice its right of initiative and must not be incompatible with the single market for electricity .
the commission can accept part of the combined amendments nos 17 and 18 , insofar as this transitional period of ten years relates to maintaining the confidence of investors and not to the continuation of the support systems as such .
as some of you have just pointed out , wind energy is very close to becoming competitive , but we have to continue providing genuine support for the development of renewable energy .
nevertheless , for reasons that i mentioned earlier , the commission rejects amendments nos 13 , 32 , 40 , 41 , 63 and 64 .
with regard to the amendments concerning market forces and competition , the commission can accept the relevant parts of amendments nos 17 and 18 and amendment no 22 , which stress the need to create a market in ecological electricity , but rejects amendment no 19 , which demands harmonisation of national support systems .
with regard to technical measures and the guarantee of origin of ecological electricity , we cannot , unfortunately , support amendments seeking to extend this guarantee to all types of electricity or to electricity from third countries , since that exceeds the scope of the proposal .
we reject amendments nos 14 , 42 , 43 and 44 and amendment no 58 , which seeks to achieve cross-border trading in electricity certificates .
in relation to amendments nos 48 , 49 and 66 , the commission can accept that , when the time comes , the national targets for green electricity for 2010-2020 should be indicated , but cannot accept those parts of the amendments which could prejudice the application of the rules of competition law in the field of state aid .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
wars and other conflicts have always been a male province , but the majority of victims - 90 per cent - are civilian .
in the commission for the reconstruction of tajikistan , which has 25 000 widows , only one of 26 participants was a woman .
in the initial peace negotiations to bring an end to the conflict in burundi , two out of 126 delegates were women .
when the stability pact for the reconstruction of south-eastern europe was created , no women at all were appointed in spite of their unique experience in peacemaking at grass roots level .
if we exclude 50 per cent of the population , we shall not obtain a sustainable peace .
women must participate fully in all peace negotiations , in all reconstruction work and in peace-keeping operations .
while formal peace processes are almost exclusively a male domain , international experience and declarations show the importance of women ' s participation in resolving conflicts and building peace .
in the few cases in which civil society and women have taken part in formal peace negotiations , it has , however , been successful , for example in south africa , guatemala and cambodia .
the goal should be to have at least 40 per cent women involved in all peace and reconstruction work .
despite the fact that only a limited number of women have been involved , studies show that women ' s participation in the un ' s peacekeeping forces improves relations with the local population , as well as general morale .
peace can only be achieved if women participate fully in the peace process .
women are especially affected by wars and conflict situations because of their responsibility for their family , their children and the elderly , but also because they often assume sole responsibility in the absence of their husbands and fathers and accordingly often have to ensure , single-handed , that their family survives .
the theorin report goes into a lot of detail and repetition , which we in the group of the european people 's party ( christian democrats ) and the european democrats consider do not belong in an official document .
mr president , up until fairly recently , the role of women in matters of war and peace was very much a fringe issue in international organisations .
this was also clearly the case with successive un world conferences held since 1975 , particularly with regard to the conflict in the middle east .
finally , mr president , i wish to express my disappointment at what i see as shifty manoeuvres that have lead to the watering down of paragraph 12 concerning the rights and freedom of choice of women who fall victim to rape and states of war .
mr president , in common with other speakers , i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her very comprehensive and commendable report containing a series of proposals which decision makers around the world ought to take on board and from which they ought to draw inspiration .
this point is very important because this tribunal also wants to act as a pioneer and to be the first to raise the question of the crimes against humanity committed against women .
i hope , mrs theorin , that we will take an initiative on behalf of the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities to support this action with a view to recognising and making reparations for this crime against humanity perpetrated against women .
mr president , commissioner , the participation of women in the peaceful resolution of conflicts is necessary , unfortunately , because of the effect these conflicts have on women ' s lives and because women do not traditionally play an active role in such conflicts .
the serious problems which this causes women are increased , because they are then repudiated in their home communities .
furthermore , there must be financial resources to help women who are victims of this situation .
women ' s participation in the diplomatic resolution of conflicts and in reconstruction initiatives would be of enormous help in achieving these objectives .
this report , which we consider to be important given the nature of the issue it deals with , is , nevertheless , too repetitive and contains certain elements which we do not like , but we recognise that it deals with a real problem which must be resolved and our group will therefore support it .
mr president , commissioner , currently , 90 % of the victims of war and four-fifths of the world ' s refugees are non-combatants , mainly women and children .
and yet , when we look at the participation of women in decision making about the prevention and resolution of armed conflicts or in peace initiatives , we see that they have a very limited presence .
there is the example of the international network of the ' women in black ' who are against war and violence and have been demonstrating for 12 years in israel against the military occupation of palestine , in dialogue and solidarity with palestinian women .
i would like to congratulate mrs theorin for broaching a subject at european level that we have rarely discussed .
secondly , on 31 october a resolution was approved in the security council , namely resolution 1325 , which ' calls for broad participation of women in peacebuilding and post-conflict reconstruction . "
i think it would be worthwhile , under the circumstances , for the european union to take a look at what points were raised too , because they have been adopted within the united nations , and so they must also be taken on board at european level .
these pacific qualities in women could provide an alternative solution , the basis for the foundations of a new civilisation , a civilisation of peace , in which dialogue is protected at all levels and from which war and violence are excluded as a means of resolving differences .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i would like to concur with the many interventions and congratulations delivered by other speakers , and i would particularly like to echo the sentiments expressed by mrs theorin in connection with the role of women in the peaceful resolution of conflicts .
that is why i support the full report in its almost original form and we feel that the majority of the amendments tabled by our colleagues have the effect of watering it down and are even downright hypocritical in some cases .
the greens do not support the compromise text drawn up by our fellow delegates in connection with amendment no 19 .
the report not only refers to the social exclusion of women as a problem in itself , it also rightly emphasises that protection against criminality and personal safety are no longer something that can be guaranteed solely within national borders .
we all condemn unreservedly the brutal abduction of children , some not even in their teens , particularly in certain african countries such as sierra leone or uganda , and their corruption into murderous habits and involvement in barbaric practices such as mutilation and maiming .
these are not soldiers and they should be distinguished from young people in our own armed forces .
the trouble is that when we talk of child soldiers , then some interest groups use this as an opportunity to criticise distinguished institutions such as the british army and this has happened recently .
mr president , i congratulate mrs theorin on this magnificent report and i believe that all of us , as women , should be happy , since it is we who are going to benefit directly or indirectly from her courageous and innovative proposals and contributions .
mr president , this report opens up new territory in european policy , that of women ' s ' contribution to peace .
it is shameful that nobody is here representing the council .
mr president , please tell me who is representing the council at the moment , or the high representative for the cfsp .
the absence of the council in this debate is a grave error .
i do not , in fact , consider it to be a serious piece of work . . ( el ) mr president , i think this really is an innovative report , an innovative resolution , one which introduces a new dimension into foreign policy in a very specific manner .
no one can claim that women are more democratic or more supportive of peace .
women are not people with fewer or more capabilities , they just have a different take on society .
allow me to refer to some of the basic recommendations in the resolution which require action by the commission .
these regulations provide for a legal basis for our political activities vis-a-vis third countries as regards action taken by the union to prevent conflict , deal with its consequences , implement confidence-building measures , promote humanitarian law and support international , regional and local organisations involved in conflict prevention .
the third element is the participation of the european community in rehabilitating victims of torture .
the fourth example is the important role of women in the peace process which the european community is supporting in the balkans and in the mediterranean basin .
i must say that , as a rule , echo programmes do take account of the gender dimension and an effort is always made to include the gender dimension in many of the programmes funded by echo for the benefit of other organisations , such as the high commissioner of the united nations , the international federation of red cross societies and others .
article 4.2 states that , as far as terms of acceptance and access to asylum procedures are concerned , special measures may be taken for people who are especially vulnerable , such as women .
mr president , what is clear is that we are witnessing an initial stage in which the gender dimension , the participation of women , is starting to become , if not the rule , then at least an element in various programmes .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
if i may make a personal comment , i believe that we would make rather more progress , regardless of what you may think about the contribution of the only man taking part in this debate , if more men participated in debates of this kind .
i have therefore tried to establish , in various countries , but also at european level , how many people - insofar as this can be established , because the people concerned are often working ' on the black ' of course - work in this sector .
in some cases they are exploited and ill-treated .
i have discovered over the past few weeks that there is a great deal of interest , both within international trade union circles and within a number of national trade union organisations .
mr president , commissioner , domestic work is the oldest work that women have carried out .
this initiative report is very timely , since it deals with a growing need within the labour market .
mr president , on behalf of my group , i would like to pay tribute to mrs smet for initiating the drafting of this report .
because if you believe that domestic work should be recognised as an occupation in its own right , and mrs smet says that , and i echo her sentiments , then what you meet with in the first instance is disbelief and a lack of understanding .
the answer is ' yes ' , but then we will need a european definition , and the countries , the governments , will have to make more effort to get the issue of illegal work out into the open .
the answer is ' no ' .
any one demanding this is confusing two issues .
but whatever happens , we must ensure that this type of work is established in a legal and social framework which affords those concerned recognition and social security cover , and which improves the quality of the work itself .
we shall nonetheless be voting against the report as a whole in the light of the subsidiarity principle .
the fact is that there are thousands of women who have been doing all these jobs for years without insurance cover or pension rights .
many women have been able to obtain a permanent job through this work .
of course , we do have the commission communication on undeclared work which was recently adopted by parliament and which could be used as a basis , including by the member states in collaboration with the commission , for policies to bring domestic work within the legal economy .
however , what i can say is that the guidelines for 2001 are the first to clearly mention undeclared work and that we intend to work on the basis of the proposal in the conclusions and compile statistics and studies to record the problem so that we can hold a second debate and discuss what the next step should be at european level .
the debate is closed .
but the jubilation accompanying this great victory for freedom , which you gained by peaceful means at great risk to your own freedom , must not lead us to underestimate the enormous challenges that await you : the consolidation of democracy ; the restoration of peace and harmony among all the communities living in yugoslavia ; its reconstruction with a view to rediscovering the road to prosperity ; its peaceful relations with its neighbours ; the return of displaced people to their villages ; those missing in action , whose families desperately wait for news ; the necessary cooperation , when the time comes , with the international court of justice in the hague , to ensure that what took place can never happen again and , finally , of course , the institutional future of kosovo , whose wounds are still open , as well as the future of montenegro .
as regards the most sensitive issues that remain to be resolved , notably in relation to kosovo , the european parliament has always hoped that peaceful solutions will be found , in accordance with un resolutions on the integrity and sovereignty of yugoslavia , in terms of fundamental human rights .
rest assured , mr president , that it is in this spirit that the european parliament , co-decider of the community budget , will lend you its full support so that european aid for the reconstruction of your country is truly in line with its needs .
their accession will be a major step towards the reunification , in an expression of solidarity , of the family of states and peoples that make up europe .
but now , in the wake of the decisive political turn of 24 september , or the even more decisive shift of 5 october , the major goal in yugoslavia 's foreign policy is to approach in a comprehensive manner a family of nations comprising the european union and then join it .
it is precisely the european union 's experience that sets a shining example not only for european countries that have yet to join , but also the whole world , when it comes to a direction mankind should take if it wishes to leave behind force , wars and domination as the means to achieve particular national interests .
secondly , the step-by-step approach western european countries have taken towards integration is a model we should adopt in the balkan processes of integration in order to qualify for entry into the european union .
not only should we build democratic institutions , a task we have already embarked on , we should also imbue them with the democratic spirit , which may prove much more difficult .
not only are we to carry out privatisation of our centralised economy , but also create a legal system that would guarantee the freedom of business operations and the entire economic process .
simultaneously with building the confidence of our citizens in our state institutions , we have to persuade them to trust the european institutions that , in nearly fifty years of their existence , have brought to their citizens lasting peace and prosperity .
the democratic changes that began in yugoslavia on 5 october have produced at miraculous speed extraordinary results on the international political plane .
yugoslavia has regained its seats in the united nations and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe , joined the stability pact for south eastern europe , while proceedings for its admission to the council of europe have been initiated .
i believe europe has both the strength and the will to help us exercise the fundamental right of each and every human being to live in his own home .
also , we will need europe 's assistance in establishing and resolving the great ecological problems caused by the use of depleted uranium in the bombing of yugoslavia .
the first step ahead of us in a bid to restructure the federal state constitutionally is to define a framework for the broadest possible democratic dialogue about the character of relations between the two republics .
a democratic joint state makes it possible for muslims and albanians in montenegro and serbia to live in a single state , and enables us to join forces in building our equally joint state .
development and local self-rule inyugoslavia is the issue we pay special attention to .
the grave situation in the yugoslav economy has been discussed at length .
the humanitarian aid to our country that has been initiated is priceless , but we hope that europe will replace it with investment programmes that would make it possible for us to work and earn enough for a normal life .
yet it is certain that our chances today are much more realistic than they were a mere month and a half ago .
after all , europe is a home we all share . ( loud and sustained applause ) mr president , thank you very much for your address which , as you see , has had a great impact on the people assembled in this chamber .
you talked about the evolution of the democratic process and we listened attentively to everything you said in this regard .
and then , with great frankness , you touched on the major challenges that await you , almost all of those i mentioned earlier .
the people who installed the system have been here for some time trying to find out where the problem is .
mr president , on page 27 of the annex to the minutes my vote is recorded as having been cast in favour of amendment no 20 to the morillon report .
we want to be registered as voting in favour of the release of leyla zana and the other kurdish prisoners .
my aim throughout the report has been to produce a proposal which is politically mature , eminently reasonable and practical for both the institutions and the citizen .
this report is even more urgent in light of the rules which were adopted by the council in august , the so-called ' solana decision ' .
as a collection of 15 member states we approach the issue of public access to documents differently , but i am glad to see that , largely , the european parliament stands as a bulwark against the forces which seek to keep the doors of the institutions closed to the public .
access to documents and information regarding the activities of the institutions enables citizens to hold the eu governing bodies accountable and stimulates greater efficiency .
it is clear that article 255 of the treaty permits a broader interpretation of citizens ' access to documents of the institutions , so allow me to outline some of the changes in my report .
all the institutions and bodies covered by article 255 should be expressly stated in the regulation and should include not only committees and working groups , but all agencies created by the institutions .
the classification system outlined in my report is intended to make the process of access to documents easier .
what we must ensure is that the existing or future interinstitutional agreements , referred to in my report , have as their legal basis the article 255 rule in order to ensure that a coherent framework is agreed between the institutions , with the maximum right of access for the citizen .
mr president , it was a long time before the european commission submitted a proposal in the field of openness of government .
there has been a fair amount of criticism on the part of the journalist organisations , the ngos , a number of member states and also parliament .
it therefore comes as no surprise that there is a broad package of amendments , so broad in fact that the regulation is being adapted to a quite considerable extent .
so there is a huge number of amendments and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , michael cashman , for his cooperation with the committee on constitutional affairs and with myself .
another important amendment is the proposal to have not just the council , the commission and parliament fall within the scope of the regulation , but also all the external bodies .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the right to become acquainted with the contents of the documents of the european union ' s institutions is a precondition of the public ' s ability to monitor decision-making generally and influence it .
at the moment in the european union there already exists the practice of public access to documentation , and we should remember that brave citizens and many progressive member states have been fighting for increased transparency for many years .
the report we are now examining in many respects takes the situation in a better direction .
this is a vague area , and it is possible that more restrictive provisions may also remain in force , and this is one point in respect of which we have tabled amendments .
mr president , the right of members of parliament to confidential documents is a very important issue , but it cannot replace the direct right of access to information on the part of the public .
in this sphere , too , every document must be examined individually .
the cashman report is the first step on a long road towards increased openness , democracy and confidence on the part of our citizens .
we are glad that the report repeats a crucial principle that we in the committee on budgetary control also vehemently support .
i also hope that the council and the commission can give us a commitment today to continuing to deal with this issue in a positive way so that we might , as quickly as possible , start making the necessary changes to the business procedures in such a way as to benefit people and the image of the institutions .
the committee would like all documents to be included , irrespective of whether they have been drawn up by the institutions or whether the institutions have them in their possession .
time is power in our society .
we would also like to emphasis the important role the ombudsman has played in the progress that has , nevertheless , been made .
mr president , the cashman report can be summarised in four words : citizens ' power over bureaucracy .
the general public 's right of access to the eu institutions ' documents is one of the mainstays in the establishment of an open and democratic eu .
the principle of access to documents must of course include all the institutions and bodies of the eu .
the document should then be made available .
the basic principle of the proposal on our table now is that all documents must be made public .
the doctrine of political responsibility must not be confused with the citizens ' rights to openness .
mr president , mr cashman , let there be no mistake , my group also feels that your report is a major step forwards in comparison with the commission ' s report .
in other words , as i see it , a link has been established - erroneously so - between the rights of parliamentarians and the rights of the public .
mr president , we have talked such a lot in parliament about bringing the union closer to the people , and i think then , if this is what we really want , that this project is crucial .
i should like to emphasise that we shall , in any case , vote in favour of as broad a definition as we possibly can of what the documents in question are .
there is a multiplicity of documents nowadays , and we should like to ensure that there is a high degree of access to as many different types of document in as many different forms as is humanly possible .
i cannot understand how it can be accepted that citizens of the european union should have poorer rights of access to documents than citizens in some individual member states .
i cannot understand why it should be more important or dangerous if something were to be leaked from this ' community ' , as it is called , than if something similar were to be leaked from the swedish , or possibly danish , government .
the third concern relates to the limited access to examination scripts from the union 's recruitment competitions .
our vote will therefore be targeted at finding the right balance between the two extremes .
mr president , the commission ' s attitude to the right of access to documents may be seen from the internal handbook sent on 11 october to employees of the commission to tell them how to deal with requests from meps for access to documents .
on 13 october , it was sent to parliament , but i have only just seen it tonight .
there is only one person - the chairman of the committee on budgetary control - who is in a position to request information in connection with the discharge procedure .
this internal handbook for employees goes on to state that , if an mep finds an interesting piece of information in a newspaper and would like to see the document concerned , then there is only one member of parliament who can submit such a request , and that is the president of parliament .
all meps are therefore justified in going to their groups ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , transparency ensures greater participation by the citizens in the decision-making process together with greater legitimacy , efficiency and responsibility on the part of the administration in a democratic system .
if it is applied extensively , the list of exceptions in article 4 could totally destroy the object of this regulation .
the purpose of this regulation is to optimise access to documents while adhering as far as possible to the principle of openness .
the proposed regulation can only achieve that aim if the list of exceptions in article 4 is toned down , to say the least .
openness in legislative work and in public administration is , of course , crucial to our democracies being able to function .
but once this report is voted on today , parliament will stand ready to negotiate with the commission and the council a code which will cause citizens to blink in the bright strasbourg sunshine .
the freedom of information act foreseen in article 255 will rip it asunder .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur and everyone else involved in this work .
included in this , apart from this draft legislation which regulates citizens ' right of access to documents , are the framework agreement between the commission and parliament and other agreements such as the solana decision .
the cashman report constitutes an improvement on the commission 's proposal , but in my opinion the improvement is not sufficient .
the latest report by the court of auditors shows how urgently we need changes here .
one thing is for sure , now that unanimity is no longer required in the council , the only possibility of redressing the balance rests with parliament .
furthermore , i feel that , as the committee on petitions and the ombudsman have requested , we also need to endeavour to outline clearly the institutional and bureaucratic stages in the process , defining the responsibilities which - rightly - still lie with the institutions , therefore without separating the different responsibilities within the organisation .
until now , transparency has been little more than a much-misused slogan when applied to the activities of the eu institutions .
it is not just a matter of the principle of unrestricted access to all documents but also , of course , of finally managing to open the doors of council meetings , so that in future the council can no longer take lonely decisions in camera a la metternich and then go in for cheap ' brussels bashing ' .
the model for us all is the american freedom of information act and the living practice of transparency in sweden .
i am glad that they have been able to work in close and successful cooperation in this matter .
naturally , the documents these bodies hold must unambiguously be included within the scope of provisions on accessibility .
it would be better to create provisions in the paragraphs themselves , which would oblige all bodies to publish their documents and create registers on them .
the provision of derogations is a very delicate matter , and what is otherwise an excellent report and a huge increase in transparency will very easily be overshadowed in the minds of the public by any clumsy set of provisions on derogations .
transparency must become a founding pillar of all the work of the european union , but the right to access documents is still not enough in itself to establish transparency .
mr president , there is a yawning gap between parliament ' s position and those of the council and the commission .
this gap is symbolic of the distance between the european union and its citizens .
that is why parliament is calling for european security and defence policy to be embedded in the structures of the european commission in future .
mr president , i would firstly like to express my satisfaction at being able to explain to you the commission ' s position with regard to the amendments tabled by the various committees on the proposal for a regulation , a regulation which we all consider to be of great importance to the reality of democracy and progress in our society .
in accordance with article 255 of the treaty , the proposed regulation must be adopted before 1 may 2001 , that is to say , two years after the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam .
before presenting the commission ' s position , i would like to point out that , in drawing up its proposal , the commission based its work , on the one hand , on the experience and functioning of the voluntary code of the last six years and , on the other , on a study of the legislation of the member states , some of which have a great deal of experience in providing their citizens access to documents .
the treaty recognises the citizens ' right to have access to the documents of the european institutions in accordance with certain principles and conditions .
when president prodi addressed parliament on 3 october , he referred to the institutional triangle and stated that , in a european system based on checks and balances , the efficient functioning of each institution contributes to the common interest .
we are therefore unable to agree to some of the amendments without prejudging a future negotiation and a definitive position in relation to it .
we must go further in relation to the ways in which the regulation will be applied and implemented , because openness , transparency and the provision of access to documents is an attitude which must be strengthened in our respective administrations and which must become a reality .
one of them is the need to achieve a fair balance between openness and efficiency .
i am referring in particular to texts for internal use and to initial drafts and preparatory study documents for exclusively internal use by the institutions .
all national legislation in this field excludes these documents .
forcing institutions to publish these internal notes could , in many cases , simply lead to confusion amongst the citizens .
the institutions lack experience in this field , since the current system only deals with documents presented by the institutions themselves .
the commission ' s proposal on third-party documents takes account of what was agreed at the last intergovernmental conference - in declaration no 35 of the treaty of amsterdam , which we cannot ignore - which gives them , both the institutions and the third parties , the final word on whether to publish these documents .
parliament ' s amendments completely reverse this approach and we therefore believe that greater consideration is required and that the proposal for a new article 4c , amendment no 36 , is not yet sufficiently mature to be accepted favourably by the commission .
i include here amendments such as those tabled on measures which must be agreed by means of an interinstitutional agreement : amendments nos 34 , 45 , and 48 .
as i pointed out previously , in certain cases we can agree in principle to the amendments , but we have to work together from a technical and administrative point of view , for example with regard to the amendments referring to the classification of documents and the register .
the relationships established by the amendments between rules on classification and rules on the content of the register therefore prevent us from accepting at this stage amendment no 46 relating to the register .
i would like to highlight that , at the right time , the commission could accept practically all the amendments , such as amendments nos 9 , 18 , 21 in part , 23 , 25 , 26.1 , 28 ( f ) , 35 , 38 , 40.1 , 40.6 , 41.1 , 42 , 43.1 , 47 , 49 and 52 .
furthermore , the commission believes that we will be able to reach agreement , with some modifications , on amendments nos 11 , 12 , 40.4 , 40.7 , 43.2 , 47 , 48.4 , 50.1 and 50.2 .
i would like to highlight the fact that , although the commission is only able today to express certain global and positive approaches in certain respects , and with regard to other amendments we are making no comment or only doing so cautiously , this does not mean that we do not want to go ahead with the debate , the negotiation and the search for common ground between the three institutions .
nobody had time to note down the amendments the commissioner listed .
i am making this comment because as a rule the commissioner present gives the commission ' s voting recommendations orally .
but precisely because the commission - i see the commissioner is nodding - is unable to give a definitive answer as yet , it is in fact a little risky to get everything down in black and white at this early stage , because then we will lose control of the situation .
so what i would actually like to ask now , is whether parliament can pursue its own decision-making process , in a sense independently of the commission ' s position , and then we can explore how the rapporteurs can engage in further consultations with the commission in order to reach a definitive viewpoint .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 12 noon .
the joint parliamentary committee was informed about the most recent developments by the european commission , the incumbent president of the council of the european union , and by the government of the republic of malta .
we make a number of political demands in our report from the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
the rules should be as easy as possible for these institutions to use .
lastly , and most controversially , the committee strongly called for the use of a fast-track procedure to implement this legislation .
that was not only three years when eu banks were at a severe competitive disadvantage - and there is evidence that they suffered severely - but also three years when european consumers were denied a modern , state-of-the-art regulatory framework .
that is what we will be doing unless we review our procedures .
these amendments replace various other proposals in the report that will probably be rejected in the vote and which will then be replaced by the new amendments arising from this consensus ( parliament adopted the legislative resolution ) mr president , we have just voted , in the absence of a number of members , on a declaration on bse .
mr bourlanges , i am afraid that this is a serious illness .
we are dealing with a very important piece of legislation and with important articles .
it so happens that the report has not yet been debated , and will not be until after the voting this evening .
not only does it raise the financial services issue , it could have far-reaching implications in terms of our procedure , in terms of the codecision procedure and in terms of our relationship with the commission .
mr president , a vote has just been taken in favour of postponing my report .
i will go along with this , but had you gone down the list in the right order and not had the vote on the cashman report first , because a number of people are absent this evening - for that is the reason - then there would still have been time to vote on the smet report .
mr president , i find , somewhat to my consternation , that the vote on the report i was to present in plenary and which is on this morning ' s agenda has been postponed inadvertently without anyone noticing .
resolution on bse ( b5-0880 / 2000 ) mr president , i should like to give an explanation of vote on the bse feed resolution .
i also voted against amendment no 7 because i do not believe it is possible , but i did vote for the resolution as a whole , especially the ban on the mammalian meat-and-bone meal feed for all farm animals , as we have had in the uk since 1996 .
mr president , i voted for the report on our great parliament 's initiative on the serious crisis in we which find ourselves due to the spread of this epidemic amongst cattle .
i would like to point out that my intention in voting for the motion was , inter alia , to support point 7 of the report .
cases of bse have been identified in france because it was the only country in the european union which took the initiative to apply a system of extensive controls .
yesterday ' s debate in this chamber on mad cow disease and the safety of animal feed displayed , above all , the extreme confusion in regard to the allocation of responsibilities and in people ' s minds .
that is why we want to learn four major lessons which should be borne in mind for the future .
moreover , the ambiguous wording of paragraph 4 is bound to raise questions about the resolve of the authorities to oppose , by all possible means , the fraud and swindling of the agri-food trusts , when it would have been so much simpler to say in a few words that the production and use of meat-and-bone meal are totally forbidden . - ( fr ) we voted in favour of this joint resolution .
the european parliament must exert pressure on the commission , which was overly cautious in the proposals it made during the debate .
finally , this unprecedented crisis emphasises the limitations of the common agricultural policy , which we have seen for many years now .
it is therefore necessary to establish as soon as possible the procedures to prevent the use of anatomical parts liable to lead to the transmission of the virus .
the commission 's proposals contained in the white paper on food safety and , in particular , the establishment of the authority which is to guarantee this safety , must be implemented as soon as possible - over a year has passed and the authority is not yet operative - in order to avoid the confusion of actions carried out by the governments on the subject causing damage such as that which we are witnessing now .
above all , yesterday ' s debate highlighted the differences of opinion on how to deal with the crisis : differences between member states , differences of political approach , differences between the community institutions .
so we are now facing an absolutely fundamental safety problem affecting the public health of our peoples and the very future of an entire industry that plays a decisive role in the social balance in some of our member states .
the debate has shown that the council presidency and the commission are very much at sea on this issue .
it decided it was a good idea to pour derision on the protective measures adopted by some member states , in particular with its reference to ' magic ' in regard to the total ban on meat-and-bone meal .
the commission is clearly envisaging no more than half-way measures , which will take away from and not add to the countries with the most stringent safety , whereas , in line with the principle of subsidiarity , it should be giving member states back the freedom of action they need to protect their people effectively , to ensure their safety , taking account of public opinion in their country , the political resolve there , the scale of the epidemic in their country and the place of the sectors involved in that country ' s economy and their society .
the commission proposal goes back to 1998 , but , because of the many points of disagreement between parliament and the council , the conciliation committee had to be convened on 11 october .
these two treatment methods must form part of a global strategy that covers the prevention , re-use and recycling of waste , a strategy that is coordinated at european level .
in the course of the debates that marked the two readings by the european parliament , i expressed my doubts and fears about lumping hazardous and non-hazardous waste together in the same directive .
it managed to get this point through during the conciliation procedure .
the european parliament has been to the forefront in devising new waste management strategies in recent years .
all these measures reflect changing public opinions on the issue of waste management .
figueiredo report ( a5-0307 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the figuereido report on the eradication of social exclusion and poverty , to quote the actual text of the report .
the main reason we did not vote against it is because its author set out a few good intentions .
this figure of 65 million poor is not the effect of some misfortune that has come out of the blue ; it is the result of the greed of a privileged capitalist class intent on boosting company profits and stock exchange rates , which therefore makes people redundant , closes down factories , reducing 15 million women and men to unemployment , and puts such pressure on all wages that the lowest wages are not enough to live on .
the report proposes a budget of eur 100 million over five years to combat poverty .
we realise that no report and no vote , even by the european parliament , can alter this situation .
let me remind you that lisbon defined a common strategy of social inclusion .
social exclusion is a very real phenomenon , as the eurostat statistics show : some 18 % of the population of the european union lives on less than 60 % of the average national income - this is the low-income threshold taken to measure relative poverty - which means that 65 million people live on low incomes .
even though the unemployment rate has fallen , there are still 16 million unemployed in the european union .
i unreservedly support the proposal to implement a second luxembourg process to deal with social exclusion , containing guidelines and national action programmes .
the lisbon european council set the european union the objective of becoming a knowledge-based , competitive and inclusive society .
universal service has a prime role to play in this regard .
the primary purpose of the report is to support a programme of community action to encourage cooperation between member states of the eu to combat social exclusion .
the fact of the matter is that long-term unemployment and youth unemployment are quite concentrated in particular areas within the european union .
devising initiatives to defeat the problems of social exclusion and to give hope and opportunities to the disadvantaged in our society must be a central core policy of all governments within the eu at this time .
i believe that the rapporteur is right when he calls for greater participation of public authorities , social partners and civil society in measures to defeat poverty and social exclusion at this time .
since europe cannot be economically strong without social justice , we can only welcome this progress .
that is why i have no option but to vote in favour of this report by our colleague , which not only endorses the commission ' s proposal but also enhances its content .
moreover , the report calls on the member states to be more proactive and set precise objectives when they draw up their national action plans .
in conclusion , our committee on social affairs , is proposing a budget of eur 100 million instead of the eur 70 proposed by the commission .
that is why we will vote in favour of the report on combating exclusion .
yet the members who will be endorsing this text today did not show the same surge of solidarity when they voted for a charter without social rights which , in reducing measures to combat exclusion to the level of measures of assistance , constitutes a step backward in relation to much of the legislation now in force .
in submitting its proposal for a programme to combat social exclusion , the commission is complying with the council ' s call to present " by june 2000 " an " initiative for cooperation in this field . "
according to eurostat figures , some 18 % of the population of the eu live on less than 60 % of the average national income ( taking the low-income threshold as a measure of relative poverty ) .
cooperation between member states is crucial for tackling these deep rooted problems that exist all across the eu , but particularly in my own constituency in the north-west of england .
moss side and salford are amongst the most deprived inner city areas in the whole of europe .
the british labour government has been leading the fight against poverty and social exclusion .
this is a great example of the labour government delivering concrete benefits to ordinary people .
rothe report ( a5-0320 / 2000 ) mr president , i abstained from the vote for one specific reason : in my opinion , this report has not made the environmental progress that i hoped and called for .
what the report seeks is precisely the opposite .
mr president , i voted for the report on the promotion of electricity from renewable energy sources .
these projections , which are dramatic in the very short term , should convince us of the need to adopt clear , proactive measures at european level targeted at checking this process of degradation in the quality of the environment .
the commission proposal and the rothe report we voted for today follow that line in calling for the promotion of renewable energy sources , which are alternative sources that respect the environment in the production of electricity .
the member states must now pursue the same line and respect the environmental objectives they endorsed both at european level and at international level , but they must also ensure their independence as regards energy and security of supplies .
at present , the union is dependent on outside supplies for about 50 % of its energy , and that figure may well rise to 70 % by the year 2020 unless we develop renewable energy sources .
it is the european commission ' s aim to double the share of renewable energy sources in the total consumption of energy by the year 2010 .
in finland peat is an important renewable energy source , and accounts for 6 % of all fuel used .
the importance of nuclear energy is increasing constantly , for this very reason .
obviously we have to observe more progressive and effective safety and security rules when using nuclear energy and when storing nuclear waste .
yesterday , 15 november , the finnish energy company , teollisuuden voima , requested the finnish council of state to give a decision , in principle , on the construction of a fifth nuclear reactor .
i hope our government and parliament will take a positive view of this request .
a first step here is consistently to break down all obstacles to the use of renewables .
everyone wants a method of electricity production that is as environmentally-friendly as possible , but they also want it as cheaply as possible .
if clean energy remains an expensive option then it will also remain an elite form of energy for some time to come .
clean energy must be available to all and affordable to all .
asem iii resolution ( b5-0811 / 2000 ) - ( fr ) in seoul we saw the blatant contrast between the official summit of the heads of state and government and the citizens ' and popular movements in which i took part .
the alternative forum also encouraged interparliamentary contacts , punctuated by a meeting at the south korean national assembly on 18 october .
mr president , as we all know , the european union has , through the commission , the council and , particularly , the european parliament , for a long time maintained excellent relations with central america , its institutions and , specifically , the countries that comprise it .
in central america , there is already a secretariat for regional integration , a central american bank , a central american upper house and a central american parliament .
we received a delegation from that parliament and made a commitment to improving the political profile not only of its role in that part of the world but also of relations between our parliament and the central american parliament .
this resolution , therefore , means giving political support to the central american parliament , to the democratic stage par excellence , which must strive to be the focus of pluralist debate in that part of the world , and , at the same time , it means sending the message that europe is in favour of regional integration in that part of the world .
mr president , commissioner , the resolution being tabled in this house today on the situation in central america is timely given the recent visit of a delegation from the central american parliament to brussels .
it is timely for three important reasons that affect this special american region , not to mention the importance and political appropriateness of strengthening the dialogue between the european parliament and the central american parliament .
thirdly , because it also coincides with the current philosophy of the european commission in favour of redirecting union external action towards the countries of latin america with the potential impact that this may have .
in this regard , we hope and trust that the necessary amounts will be allocated to provide impetus for the process of regional integration in central america , where dialogue is becoming necessary and essential as a permanent political exercise .
we are therefore pleased with this political declaration by our parliament in relation to the central american parliament , because it recognises the role that this institution plays in the process of integrating the countries of this area , situated between the north and south of america .
i remember very well that throughout these years this delegation has maintained extraordinary relations with parlacen and with the other latin american parliaments .
we believe that , not only now but since parlacen was born , there are people who wish it to have fewer competences and less of a presence , because a parliament always creates discomfort , but i believe that the vocation of parlacen , and of this and other parliaments , is to be of benefit to the people it represents , even if this may make the established powers feel uncomfortable .
mr president , in this debate , we wish to express - as many previous speakers have done very effectively - this parliament ' s solidarity with , and support for , the central american parliament at a time when we are fighting to continue to prioritise the european union ' s external relations with the countries of latin america .
mr president , parliaments - as you and all of us in parliament know very well - have today , more than ever , the difficult task , amongst others , of showing leadership in the development of our societies , of leading the quest for solutions to the many problems facing us by strengthening the values of democracy and social justice which we stand for .
in the case of the central american parliament , this task is , if possible , even more important given the enormous challenge of the integration and structural development of these societies on the basis of peace , dialogue and reconciliation .
i believe that the european parliament is capable of demonstrating , through its actions , that it has a very positive view of the work of parlacen by offering it its support and experience .
within the framework of our respective integration processes , it is clear that both the european parliament and the central american parliament are required to play an increasingly important role .
the central american parliament will continue on its own course and will take a political path in a central america which , i believe , wishes to and must regain possession of itself in a full union of diversity .
the central american parliament , like the european parliament , must gain prestige , credibility and legitimacy on the basis of the activity of its political groups , because the life of the parties is , or at least should be , a faithful reflection of the societies they represent .
mr president , through this resolution we therefore wish to express our support for , and solidarity with , the central american parliament and also to ask the commission to decisively support the multiannual programme which parlacen has presented to the commission , since we believe that , as an institution , it legitimises the process of integration in central america and serves as a symbol of a new era of dialogue and peace .
i agree with the words of the honourable member from the canary islands coalition insofar as we show our support for parlacen because of its importance in terms of the consolidation of democratic structures and , therefore , we , as the european parliament , must stand united with an institution such as that .
i believe that on these issues we have to continue to preach at home what we want to happen throughout the world , without averting our eyes when human rights are trampled underfoot in other parts of the world .
mr president , the commission takes note of the proposals for resolutions tabled by parliament on respect for human rights in central america , the process of democratisation and regional integration , and on the special importance which you attach to the role of the central american parliament .
the commission follows the situation in the region with great interest and our priority objectives in our relations with the region focus on the three points which you have highlighted : respect for human rights , the consolidation of the democratic process and the strengthening of regional integration .
with regard to human rights , we have , since 1990 , been supporting the cooperation programmes in favour of respect for human rights by means of education and raising awareness in this area .
you are well aware that between 1990 and 2000 eur 65 million has been spent on this activity , which we continue to support with a view to the future .
for the next multiannual programme , which will begin soon , we are considering an additional contribution of more than eur 10 million in order to continue this activity .
within our framework of cooperation with the area , we have paid special attention to all those institutions which support regional integration , the general secretariat of the central american integration system , the court of justice and especially parlacen , which is one of our priority objectives .
finally , in the dialogue with the central american authorities , the commission is also reiterating the importance which must be attached to the process of regional integration as an instrument to consolidate democratisation and development in the region .
on this issue , we are also working on the definition of a new cooperation programme which should allow us to concentrate on these three fundamental elements : economic integration - the implementation of common policies - the strengthening of the institutions and the strengthening of civil society .
these points seem to us to be essential and should be the key elements of our multiannual programme between 2000 and 2006 .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m .
mr president , for a long time cote d 'ivoire stood out as a pillar of stability and relative prosperity in the tormented life of west africa .
in this way he has brought cote d 'ivoire to the brink of civil and ethnic war .
now this process needs to be confirmed rapidly by the organisation of free , transparent and pluralist legislative elections in which all the political forces can take part .
we must take note of this return to a democratic process that may indeed be incomplete , but that we must continue to support .
the extreme confusion that has characterised the electoral process over recent weeks in cote d 'ivoire , which had looked like a model economy until now , is symptomatic of a country in crisis , reflected by an economy in crisis , social despair and , consequently , political chaos .
similarly , this democratic process can only become more credible if a national reconciliation committee is created , together with a national electoral committee to prepare and guarantee future elections , especially the elections of 10 december .
we as a european union , must be prepared to continue to provide assistance , but this will only be possible if the country is run properly and democratisation really takes shape .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i believe the first question that arises in cote d ' ivoire is that of democracy .
for almost a year now , a few of us in this house , in particular most of my colleagues , have been alerted to the situation in cote d ' ivoire , which i really believe offers a perfect example of how not to do things .
everybody just let it happen , as though they had not learned any lessons from rwanda or former yugoslavia .
and now they are surprised to see general guei end up rigging the elections .
first of all , i believe the european union should welcome the fact that the new president , laurent gbagbo , is setting up a national reconciliation committee .
and indeed that is why president gbagbo must not dismiss the possibility of holding presidential elections , as the direct follow-up to these legislative elections .
but above all , we must , in my view , insist much more firmly on this racist constitution being declared null and void .
in the same way , i believe that the 14 parties that have been excluded must be reintegrated and play a full part in these elections .
the european union must also make sure that none of its members establishes relations with its former colonies - and let me emphasise this - that are based solely on economic interests or geostrategic location .
it was on the basis of such considerations that hubert vedrine , the head of the french diplomatic service , actually went so far as to explain that from a certain point of view these elections were legal because they were founded on a constitution .
the european union , and also this parliament , made an important contribution to this by demanding that democratic elections take place and instituting the suspension procedure .
at least 170 people died and 350 were wounded .
it would not be illogical for the european union to immediately demand new presidential elections , in which all candidates would be able to participate this time round .
but i recognise that there are a number of reasons for not doing so .
after all , against this background , he offered his opponents various ministerial posts and declared 9 november a national day of mourning .
as some delegates have already said , this must inevitably lead to the parliamentary elections on 10 december , which all parties must be able to take part in .
but the real test for gbagdo will be on 10 december .
but we must also say that the day of reconciliation on 9 november will send out new signals in regard to establishing democracy and the rule of law and taking seriously the demand for national reconciliation .
the european union has been asked , and has declared itself prepared , to help ensure that the elections in december , as well as the local elections in january , are conducted in a peaceful , fair , free and transparent manner .
we know that millions of people living in cote d 'ivoire come from one of its neighbouring countries .
conversely , we refuse to associate ourselves with the representatives of political parties who were or are involved in france ' s africa policy .
mr president , by means of various recent declarations , the european union has condemned the abuses of general guei ' s regime ; it has also expressed its regret at the outright exclusion of the main opposition candidates from the election of 22 october , which has to a large extent limited the credibility of that very electoral process .
the union has condemned general guei ' s attempt to confiscate the election results and subsequently the army ' s violent repression of the demonstrations in favour of laurent gbagbo and , above all , the bloody inter-ethnic massacres which have been perpetrated on the native people of the north of cote d ' ivoire .
the commission believes that in the current circumstances the priority should be for the legislative elections that are scheduled to be held on 10 december to be open and transparent .
these elections must enable the political parties that were excluded from the presidential election to be represented at national level and thereby compensate , though only partially , for the defects of that first election .
these elections should make up one of the key elements of the national reconciliation that we all wish to see and are calling for .
the european community will provide financial support for these elections to be held , and we will also cooperate by providing some one hundred observers .
once these elections have taken place and depending on the way they are carried out , we will be able to consider holding in-depth discussions with the new ivoirian authorities in order to determine the conditions in which we can re-establish our cooperation .
the commission recognises other priorities with regard to emergencies , which are closely related to issues such as health or education , especially in rural areas , and this is fundamental to this process being carried out in an open and democratic manner .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m .
burma / myanmar : mr president , i am very glad that there has been such strong support across the house for the powerful statement we have in this resolution condemning the military junta in burma .
the forthcoming eu / asean meeting in laos in december offers us a crucial opportunity to demonstrate our condemnation of this regime in the strongest terms .
we are calling for the council and the commission to postpone that meeting , to call it off , until the burmese junta releases all political prisoners without conditions and allows freedom of movement for aung san suu kyi and her party members and until the burmese junta enters into a meaningful dialogue with the election-winning nld and the ethnic minorities .
the opportunity to call off and to postpone this meeting that is due next month in laos offers us the opportunity to make the statement in the strongest terms , to send the strongest possible signal that we condemn this illegal regime .
aung san suu kyi must be released and allowed to travel freely and a troika must be allowed to go to burma and to go anywhere and meet anyone they like .
aung san suu kyi has reiterated recently that constructive engagement with rangoon is not working and she and the nld have asked for the meeting to be postponed .
if the eu goes ahead , the junta would be encouraged and heartened by the decision to sit our foreign ministers from democratic european governments around a table which includes the military junta of burma .
mr president , there are several reasons as to why we are once again discussing burma - in fact this is the second time since the summer - and nor is this the first time this year that this country has been on the agenda .
it is true that james mawdsley , the activist we talked about two months ago , has been released since then .
the military regime in burma claims to be able to maintain order and stability in a country where ethnic rivalries are never far away .
its sad inheritance of colonialism and neo-colonialism obliges the european union to take a firm , very brave and decisive stance , in order to aid the re-establishment of democracy in various parts of the world , such as latin america , which currently faces the problem of guatemala with its fight against the impunity of military figures , africa or , in this case , burma .
we therefore reaffirm the importance of this resolution and the firm commitment of the commission and the council in this direction .
as we sit here in our climate-controlled comfort , the democratically elected parliamentarians of burma are under house arrest , in hiding and under the gravest possible threat .
twice since last september we have passed resolutions deploring the administration in burma and despite our clear and heartfelt views on this matter , we know that the eu countries will be sending foreign ministers to meet their asean counterparts in laos next month .
yesterday mr james mawdsley , who was released from burma , sent me a message which i want to read out to you .
the regime also boasts that they will kill all karen and they are committing genocide among the karen , karenni and shan ethnic groups of burma .
the regime 's hatred of the ethnic groups and for the nld cannot be checked by appeals to reason or morality .
mr president , for many years i have had a poster on the wall of my office of aung san suu kyi when she was awarded the sakharov prize by this parliament .
but , as has been said by many of the excellent speeches this afternoon , there remains still nothing but despair about this wonderful , gentle , charming and immensely brave woman and her attempts to keep the flag of freedom flying in her own country .
asean has become , in every sense of the word , a paper tiger in its failure to deal with the awful events in burma .
however , i do believe that the international community needs to move on from rhetoric to real action and , as a member of parliament 's delegation for relations with the member states of asean , south-east asia and the republic of korea , i am disappointed and concerned like others before me that the eu has decided to enter into dialogue with asean in laos next month at ministerial level .
i know the arguments that the asean member states have put to our delegation about including burma in this group .
burma has been a member of asean for a number of years and there is absolutely no evidence to date that shows any improvement or an end to forced labour or executions or suppression of free speech and free movement .
the list of human rights violations by this regime continues to get longer and longer each year .
the junta should also enter into dialogue with the nld and the ethnic nationalities .
mr president , the human rights situation in burma continues to deteriorate under the not-so-gentle control of the military junta .
but it not just aung san suu kyi , it is not just the military , it is not just the nld - there are almost 3 000 political prisoners who are suffering from hard labour and torture .
vietnam mr president , i am delighted that vietnam is on the agenda at last .
so i believe this is an important resolution .
mr president , i agree in many important respects with the previous speakers , because much of what is happening in vietnam today is unacceptable .
i myself once travelled in this country and came to know its vitality , beauty and wealth of resources .
if you are now more or less announcing that you will vote against these amendments , then unfortunately i must announce that we will probably abstain from the vote on this resolution .
the war between these two countries has not led to lasting bitterness .
contrary to amendment no 1 tabled by the pse group , i noted in a document published on 10 november , that human rights watch regards the human rights situation as being grave on quite a number of counts .
the most recent edition of the asian weekly ' far east and economic review ' today refers to the existence of top secret documents originating from vietnam .
president clinton would do well to raise this matter during his present visit to hanoi .
firstly , with regard to myanmar , my colleague chris patten has already condemned before this house the constant violations of human rights by the military regime in burma : executions without trial , the widespread imposition of forced labour , the enforced uprooting of local populations , hundreds of political prisoners in the country ' s prisons and the clear hindering of the free functioning of political parties .
he also expressed his concern about the detention and harassment of aung san suu kyi and the members of the national league for democracy .
however , the commission remains convinced that a lasting solution to the current situation can only be found by means of dialogue between the military regime , the democratically elected opposition and the representatives of the ethnic minorities .
the general affairs council has tried to persuade the military regime of the value of this argument in favour of political dialogue and to exert pressure so that there might be changes and it will continue to do so .
despite everything , we are convinced that we must not allow the situation prevailing in myanmar to hijack the dialogue between the european union and asean .
three years have passed since we held a ministerial meeting with our asean partners , which is far too long a time in our relations with a region that is important for the european union from the political and economic points of view .
however , that does not mean that , either now or in december , we should behave as if the accession of myanmar to asean had not affected our relations , because it has .
our asean partners know this very well and are concerned to repair this damage ; on the other hand , they know that encouraging burma to make a genuine effort and to put an end to its appalling behaviour in the field of human rights is the best way to revive relations between the union and asean .
i believe that the european union-asean ministerial meeting should be taken as a new opportunity to clearly and firmly express our opinions on the situation prevailing in burma , both to the regime itself as well as to the members of asean .
we will therefore exert pressure on the military regime to put an end to the violations of human rights and begin a dialogue with the democratically elected opposition and the representatives of the ethnic minorities .
with regard to the issue of vietnam and the human rights situation , i would like to point out the following : we must remember that vietnam is a country in transition , that its government initiated a process which led to the adoption in 1986 of a reform programme that embraced external relations and political and economic change .
furthermore , the process has led to the signing of a cooperation agreement between the commission and vietnam in 1995 .
during this time , vietnam has made advances towards a market economy , which has , in particular , led to its presentation of a request to join the world trade organisation .
furthermore - and i think this should be highlighted today - within the framework of the new constitution adopted in 1992 , vietnam has an elected national parliament , which has the duty of adopting legislation and to which the government must answer in relation to its policies .
the circumstances surrounding the execution at the beginning of this year of a vietnamese-canadian citizen undoubtedly support our convictions in this regard .
along with the member states , the commission participates in all the initiatives adopted by the european union directed at the vietnamese government in relation to human rights and i can assure you that , within this process , we will continue to raise specific problems and cases and to promote a steady improvement in the human rights situation in vietnam .
mr president , i just want to ask commissioner solbes mira whether he can give a few details of this revolutionary development , namely the elections of a democratic parliament in vietnam , to which he referred in his statement .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
the eu has a wonderful opportunity to really take a lead in this change to an ecologically sustainable society where we will not have to deal with floods partly caused by our own inability to face up to the consequences of our own actions .
two major roads were cut for a number of days : the a38 north of gloucester and the a417 west of gloucester .
in devon , the river taw had the highest level since records began .
in somerset , we had tidal flooding across the coastline .
in dorchester , the river frome was so high that a major-incident plan was invoked to deal with the possible consequences .
the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to waste no time in expressing their support in practical ways by marshalling workers and equipment under the five-year plan establishing a community action programme in the field of civil protection which was adopted on 9 december 1999 .
however , this resolution tabled right across parliament , including by my colleagues from england , deals with a very real and short-term problem faced by thousands and thousands of people in britain and across europe .
there is a question as to whether some of these people who have been flooded will be able to be reinsured and whether the insurance companies will take this on again .
i ask you all to support our resolution .
in my own constituency the towns of clonmel , fermoy and mallow were the worst affected .
it is very regrettable that we , the european union , do not have a budget line to assist those who face these particular difficulties , despite my attempts and attempts by others over many years to get such a budget line instated .
mr president , commissioner , the floods which have affected various areas of northern italy and other european countries such as the united kingdom , spain , ireland and france in recent weeks once again raise the issue for parliament both of an extraordinary , urgent intervention to alleviate the distress of the people , communities and companies affected , and a longer term policy to prevent the repetition of natural disasters of this scale .
certain regions of italy have suffered particularly badly for the second time in less than a month .
the damage is considerable this time as well , people have died and the material damage has been enormous .
and given the remarkable scale of the disaster , the request made in the resolution which we tabled together with other groups is totally justified , despite the fact that these issues have been debated recently in this house - on 26 october to be precise - and that a parliamentary resolution was adopted on that occasion as well .
mr president , throughout their various interventions , meps have concentrated on two quite different points : in the first place , the problem of climate change and , in the second place , what the commission or the european union can do in a situation like the present one , with the extremely serious floods that have occurred .
with regard to the first subject , i should like to point out that , as parliament also does , we attach great importance to the problem of climate change and to the conference that is at this moment taking place in the hague .
the energy and transport sectors produce 85 % of the total emissions of greenhouse gases in the european union .
on this basis , the commission is shortly going to be proposing two strategic documents : a combination of policies and measures designed to provide a response to the kyoto commitments and to the objectives regarding transport and energy .
the commission has taken two initiatives along these lines .
the commission ' s proposal , which commissioner wallstrom explained in detail in this parliament , is therefore to use the currently existing eaggf funds , or the structural funds of the interreg funds .
as we said just now , we are entirely sympathetic to these practical projects , and i want to insist upon this point today , but it is absolutely essential to be able to rely on these proposals if we are to be able to take action .
the article does not relate to community aid , but relates to the compatibility of national aid with community legislation .
what this article says is that , in the case of natural catastrophes , national aid may be compatible .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
mr president , i regard this a relatively important report , because it concerns a policy that accounts for a significant share of public expenditure , both at european union level and at the level of its component member states .
so we should now be voting on this highly important text in the presence of only 171 meps , which is the number just counted .
postponing the vote would mean postponing the task we entrust to the commission .
but if you would permit me please , i should like to say that , whatever the view of the house on this issue , i do not appreciate the fact that almost constantly today various colleagues , in various groups , for various reasons - which may be sound - have removed our right to vote here in strasbourg on thursday , let alone friday .
as a general principle , this is a very bad way to proceed .
i would urge caution on all colleagues in all of the committees and groups who choose now progressively to undermine the dignity and substance of the work of this house . ( applause ) thank you mr cox .
amendment 1 : mr president , on behalf of rapporteur rocard , i would like , in any case , to table an oral amendment to amendment no 1 .
there was a large crowd of pensioners and elderly people and they said to me : " mr fatuzzo , we were not able to vote for your pensioners ' party because , as you see , we are here in the afterlife .
the economic and social policy of the au , which has resulted in the reduced purchasing power of and facilities available to workers , as regards the payment of contributions , the emergence of new diseases and the unaccountability of pharmaceutical companies , have caused health costs to spiral .
differences between insurance systems in individual member states and obstacles to the free movement of people and freedom of residence in another member state cannot be used as a pretext for privatising a large part - and later all - of the health care system .
this is a serious problem if it means that people are to be treated differently on the basis of their financial circumstances and health situation .
michel rocard ' s report emphasises that health insurance is primarily a concern for the member states and that the proximity principle should apply .
because that is so , i think it is premature to incorporate in this resolution a long and very detailed list of points to be included in a proposal for a commission directive .
instead of regarding health insurance as part of remuneration for work or as part of payments replacing wages , increasingly , this provision is being made dependent on savings and investments .
these national provisions are life-saving measures .
however , if we are to have an effective system that can cope with increasing pressure on existing national services , and that makes europe a healthier place for our citizens , then we should also recognise the importance of supplementary insurance providers .
the health of our citizens is extremely precious .
in effect , we are having a first reading before the proposals have been tabled .
some people in this house think that it fatally undermines parliament 's powers .
we are here to use our powers in the interests of european businesses and our constituents , and we shall not be forgiven if we fail to do so .
i appeal to all colleagues and particularly to the socialist group , to re-examine their views on this matter and look at what safeguards they would like to see in primary legislation to enable the delegation of powers .
the report refers to a growing consensus that the present framework fails adequately to capture the changes in the financial sector over the past ten years .
given that the phrase " growing consensus " - i am quoting from the report - in fact implies that there is no consensus on the subject as yet , we are justified in asking whether the institution promoting this reform , the chosen instrument and the chosen time are really appropriate .
one cannot help feeling that parliament , following the commission , feels obliged to align its activities with those of the basel committee , which , let me remind you , has no legitimate right to impose its views on the member states .
yet this report does have some merits , ladies and gentlemen , including the fact that it represents real progress in relation both to the first basel text and to the commission text .
our rapporteur , mrs villiers , who has been responsible for some excellent work , mentioned in her report the possibility of applying a fast track method .
let me briefly address the problem that in basel we are creating a framework for systems that are not necessarily compatible , systems in the usa and systems in europe , and here we must ensure that we do not ride roughshod over a particular area .
we know that the large banks are no longer interested in them .
during the procedure we must not think about whether we are surrendering rights , but about the degree of detail to which we regulate matters in europe in future , or where we should simply establish the framework and pass on certain instruments of adjustment to other institutions , such as the commission , but also basel .
today we in the european parliament must also send out the signal that we will not allow our established systems to be put at risk and that the large banks will also face problems if a legal framework is created in europe .
we also think that this report makes an important and satisfactory contribution to the whole process .
the reaction to the two consultation documents on this subject - that of the european commission and that of the basel committee on banking supervision - has been positive , and i should like to comment on the latter document .
it has no legislative power , but nor should it be forgotten that it is a matter of actual fact that the basel committee on banking supervision belongs to the group of the ten and that , even though it is not a legislative body , its standards apply in 130 countries and are used by a multiplicity of international organisations , including the world bank , the international monetary fund and , obviously , third countries .
the report coincides , to a large degree , with the ideas of the commission and the objectives we are trying to achieve .
the commission will continue to be especially vigilant in ensuring that the potentially most vulnerable sectors are taken into account .
we all know that , on this point , mr lamfalussy has prepared a very clear and enormously useful report which may help us produce legislation that is more effective , more efficient and , so to speak , better adjusted to the changes occurring in the market .
it is at present far too soon to speak of the commission ' s adopting a formal position on these subjects , but perhaps we can define a number of outline features of the possible approach .
a first level would include the basic principles , or codes principals , to be included in certain norms such as directives .
in the second place , there would be a level of technical detail covering that area which will be most subject to change if we want the regulations to reflect best practice .
we would be talking about a second level of decision-making .
turning to the points in the specific amendments which are to be made and which have been included in the report , i should like to make two comments .
with regard to amendment no 12 on the supervisory review system , i should like to point out that it is already within the powers of the supervisors to request or establish levels in excess of the minimum capital requirements .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m .
mr president , we are here today to debate the first of two reports on modifying the statute and general conditions governing the performance of the ombudsman ' s duties .
we therefore now need to adapt its statute to the financial regulation and propose that two articles be deleted - article 12 and article 16 of parliament ' s 1994 decision - which , as we all know , approved the general conditions of the performance of the european ombudsman ' s duties .
given that we will soon have to apply ourselves in this parliament to fundamental changes to the statute of the european ombudsman , which are still being discussed in the committee on constitutional affairs , to whose report i have been given access and which addresses the issue of extending the ombudsman ' s powers of investigation , we will wait until then for a complete , qualitative revision of the text of that statute .
mr president , i hope the rapporteur will not mind if i say that this is a relatively obscure report that we are taking fairly late on a thursday evening and that it goes right to the very heart of democracy in the european union : how do we protect the rights of european citizens ?
the ombudsman has a distinctive role and position in the framework of the european institution , but it is a role that requires autonomy .
that is why the ombudsman needs to be financially autonomous and as independent as possible so that we in this parliament cannot be accused of calling the tune .
the public need to have the utmost confidence that the ombudsman is completely impartial in his investigations .
it is perhaps also worth pointing out to european citizens that the ombudsman 's office - not him personally - costs something like eur 3.9 million a year or less than one cent per person in the european union .
as a result of this , the petitions committee , in the gonzalez alvarez report , said that the procedure to amend the ombudsman 's statute should be seen in the light of article 195 of the european communities treaty .
let us never forget that the role of the ombudsman is one that is enshrined in the european treaties .
the epp / ed group supports the view of the committee on constitutional affairs that the ombudsman 's competences should be enlarged and the sooner the better , especially in the fields of the ombudsman 's investigative powers laid down in article 3 of the 1994 decision .
we in my group appreciate the ombudsman 's support for the petitions committee , the committee that is responsible for relations between the ombudsman and parliament .
in this respect the epp / ed group encourages the ombudsman to continue his work through his special reports which we are always ready to consider in a positive spirit of cooperation with the ombudsman .
the epp / ed group supports this report therefore and hopes that this , along with the bosch report on the ombudsman 's report on recruitment procedures , is a sign of the european parliament 's continued commitment to increasing transparency and accountability .
we do not need extra work and we do not want to see examples of maladministration , but it is important that we remind european citizens that the office of ombudsman is there to help them if problems of maladministration arise .
mr president , the commission can be very brief on this matter .
the commission has already signalled its agreement on this matter in the past , both for technical budgetary reasons and for reasons to do with the independence of the ombudsman ' s duties .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i believe that the report we are debating this evening fits very well into today 's agenda , because around midday today we already adopted an important report on access to documents , and i believe what we are discussing now and will have to decide tomorrow is very closely related to that .
in relation to the ombudsman , a matter we have just been discussing , there were several complaints in the past about the lack of transparency in regard to recruitment , and that is a very crucial point , because we entirely agree with the ombudsman 's view that recruitment procedures are many young eu citizens ' first contact with the european institutions .
mr president , speaking both as a member of the committee on legal affairs and on behalf of my own group , i , too , very much welcome this .
we particularly welcome the reforms and changes which we believe ought to be and , commission-willing , will be introduced as a result of this report .
after all , access to documentation is a fundamental civil right and no documentation is more important to a candidate than documentation in relation to examinations .
not only the commission but the other institutions and bodies of the community ought to comply with the ombudsman 's recommendations , even in the case of recruitment procedures which have already been initiated .
it is regrettable that the commission agreed to apply the ombudsman 's recommendation only for recruitment procedures launched after june 2000 .
we would also like to draw attention to the point about temporary and auxiliary posts in the institutions , offices and bodies of the community and the union .
our group was very satisfied with the vote in the committee on petitions .
we studied them and we can accept three of them , which are in line with the way we voted in committee .
we think the others are difficult to implement , or even rather out of context .
the ombudsman looks after the public interest in the direction of the administration .
in addition , the report urges all the institutions and bodies of the european communities to allow applicants to have access to their corrected examination papers in future recruitment competitions , if they so request .
having good staff and officials is obviously in itself essential for well-functioning institutions and this can only be assured if the recruitment procedure is impartial and as objective as possible .
allowing the candidates to see their marked tests is a simple means of increasing transparency and confidence in the procedure for the recruitment of european civil servants .
the ombudsman 's initiative and recommendations can therefore be warmly welcomed , as can the decision by the commission to follow them .
i therefore thank the ombudsman for his report , which i fully support .
however , between the fine words and noble principles expressed by the european ombudsman and practice , things are not always so cut and dried .
i congratulate the commission on accepting the four recommendations made in the special report on the ombudsman .
the fact that applicants for community institution jobs should see their marked scripts shows that institutions are confident in the way they run their application and selection procedures .
mr president , i too should like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs .
the president of the commission himself has repeatedly assured us that transparency in the administration of european affairs is an absolute priority .
allow me to finish by saying that the commission has a obligation to comply with the recommendations of the european ombudsman and to design a full system of objective examinations for two reasons : first , because it is legally obliged to do so under article 255 of the treaty , as revised by the treaty of amsterdam introducing the principle of transparency .
and the something new in this case is that it must apply best practices and avoid anything which experience tells us will damage its credibility within the member states .
for example , candidates are already allowed to take the examination questions away with them , the general evaluation criteria can be made known to those candidates who request them , the list of passes can be published in the official journal and the composition of the selection board may be published in the official journal ( in the case of general public entrance examinations ) or on the commission ' s web site ( in the case of internal or restricted examinations ) .
the commission endeavours to be as objective as possible , and i should like to make two comments on a couple of questions which have arisen in the debate .
the commission ' s commitment regarding this matter is absolute and we hope that , as soon as these measures have been implemented , they will be applied generally .
finally , the commission can obviously make a commitment on its own behalf .
with regard to other institutions , it is they themselves who will decide whether the procedures proposed in this report or in the requests by the ombudsman are adopted .
that was a very satisfactory finish to a very satisfactory debate .
mr president , this is not a question - clearly the matter does not fall within commissioner solbes ' remit - but i take note of the statement that the examination scripts will be available as of july 2002 .
obviously , i was talking about july 2000 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 7.12 p.m. )
i proposed that we vote on the villiers report in brussels in november , because there are a number of rather sensitive amendments that i should not like to see voted in by random majorities .
i therefore agree that there should be a higher weighting coefficient - 10 % for example - but it must be totally fixed in all cases and all circumstances .
i am especially grateful to commissioner vitorino who has shown his vigorous commitment to a european police college , something which also finds expression in the fact that the portuguese government , which thinks along similar lines to himself , has thankfully seized this initiative .
however , we want this only to be a first step and we want an actual police college to be set up within no more than two or three years .
this police cooperation is crucial if we are to achieve the very important objective of affording european citizens a high degree of security within the european area of freedom , security and justice .
the intention of the portuguese presidency in presenting this initiative , following the tampere conclusions and in order to meet the deadlines laid down in the ' scoreboard ' , was to initiate the preliminary stage of the european police college by creating a network of the national institutes already existent in each member state in order to improve the training of senior police officers .
in all these areas , the police college can play an important role by promoting more effective practices and up-to-date methods , either in the form of a network coordinating national training establishments , or as an actual college with a permanent seat .
the enlargement of the european union , which will extend the space in which citizens are free to move , should be accompanied by supplementary measures ensuring safety and peaceful co-existence among the member states .
social conditions in most member states of the european union are now such that there is indeed a great need for cross-border cooperation between the various police forces .
mr president , if there is one thing i have learnt about constituency problems since i was elected to the house , it is how very variable throughout europe is the interpretation of articles 5 and 6 of the european convention on human rights - the right to brief detention before trial and the right to a speedy trial , the right to be released pending trial if the trial cannot proceed speedily .
these rights are very differently interpreted in different parts of the union .
i come from a country in which the maximum period of detention allowed by law is 110 days .
we can therefore safely say that a lightweight and currently practically non-existent structure such as the european police college will give rise to yet another bureaucratic structure , almost as if it were in the genetic code of the european union to entwine policies in red tape .
however , mr posselt 's work has resulted in provision at last being made for police training to include human rights and the right of defence , and the proposal is also important and appropriate at the moment to create a virtual police college which would take advantage of the potential offered by the internet .
it is not specified in either the council decision or the rapporteur 's report .
it will probably come as an even greater shock for them to learn that the european parliament wants the european police college to be responsible for training police forces and border control forces - that is to say customs and excise - in order to prepare them for the use of community law and the implementation of common and community measures .
clear as day we can see the ambition of the eu naked in tooth and claw ; a common approach - the european approach - to fighting crime and internal security ; one people , one law and one police force .
mr president , listening to the last speaker , i have not heard mention of the common market in almost 20 years in this house .
their capital in those days was moscow or budapest .
the work we do on a friday morning in parliament has the same legitimacy as the work we do on a monday or any other day .
indeed it was commented that on wednesday evening when the commissioner spoke about bse , somebody drew attention to the fact that there were only 17 people in the house .
i come from a state where the police developed out of a chaotic situation - a civil war .
i will welcome a levelling-out of standards in some member states in the european union .
i hope that this academy will help us to have a better understanding of the whole system .
this week , the contribution made by president de gaulle to establishing peace in algeria was held up by mr posselt as a model for the role which mr kostunica will have to play in order to solve the kosovo problem .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the creation of the european police college is , in the commission ' s opinion , a dossier of major importance for the european union , both in terms of cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs and with the prospect of enlargement of the union .
i therefore feel that the efforts made by us all will have made it possible to effectively create the european police college just one year after the decision taken by the tampere european council .
with regard to the future of the college , the commission is - as i am sure you will be aware - of the opinion that conclusion no 47 of the tampere european council laid down , extremely clearly , that the network-style functioning of the college , which is already causing it also to be called a ' virtual ' academy , will be only the first stage .
we are talking about the need to exchange experience and information , to exchange best practices in crime fighting in order to make respect for citizens ' rights and the fight against transnational crime more effective .
the debate is closed .
the establishment of the european police college is one more step towards the creation of a police state at a european level , which the ruling class believes is necessary to protect its interests from the demands of ordinary people .
the establishment of the european police college is in keeping with the decision taken by the feira council to create a mobile ' expeditionary ' force of repression with police , judicial and correctional powers , which the european union will use for ' non-military crisis management ' anywhere on the planet .
it is especially important to stress that the european police college , which is expected to start its operations on 1 january 2001 , is not simply a network of the national training institutes of the member states of the european union ; it also involves the applicant countries of central and eastern europe .
we also think the method adopted for this initiative is perfectly appropriate : we are not going to set up a new european structure liable to be rather divorced from reality at the national level , but rather to create a college in the form of a network made up of the existing national training institutes for senior police officers .
this is a good illustration of what we are starting to call ' network europe ' , a europe which puts nations in contact with each other directly , without the need to maintain pointless superstructures .
in our opinion , the most effective way of working , for the european police college , as for most of the other areas of cooperation , especially in the police , justice and security sector , is to establish networks between the existing national services . - ( sv ) i have voted against the report on the provisional establishment of the european police college .
this role was first developed by president plumb , following a request from many women in france whose children had been abducted and with whom they were no longer in contact .
since then , many other people have also sought the help of the european parliament when their children have been abducted .
the precise scope of it would cover parents , living in a different member state from where the guardianship judgment was made , who were looking for visiting rights .
there are constitutional concerns in some member states , notably germany and austria .
undoubtedly , many of our courts are very slow and ponderous , and there is great difficulty in getting them to act quickly on these issues .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i wish to begin by congratulating mrs banotti on both her excellent report and the efforts she has made over recent years in the cause of defending and guaranteeing the fundamental rights of children , specifically in her capacity as european parliament mediator on issues concerning the international abduction of children , a task in which she has invested her widely-acknowledged qualities and sensitivity .
it is part of the gradual development of judicial cooperation in civil matters and its communitisation .
it is a proposal for a regulation that seeks to make exercising rights of access and accommodation for the children of separated parents easier , in an attempt to prevent children becoming a kind of hostage in the dispute between parents who are resident in different member states .
my mother lived through such a separation and abduction 85 years ago , and she still talks about it .
if we also start applying something similar to other situations , we are undertaking in the future to have centralised unitary legislation such as does not even exist between the 50 states of the united states .
what i therefore wish to tell parliament is that , in the action programme on the mutual recognition of judgments in civil matters - which we hope will be adopted by the end of this year - the commission proposes that the first and utmost priority should be given to extending the scope of the brussels ii regulation and , consequently , of this regulation on rights of access , covering both the children of married couples and those of unmarried couples without discrimination .
it is worth saying , however , that the issue of civil judicial cooperation was communitised by the treaty of amsterdam .
the point about the one day clearly refers to people who often travel right across the world to see a child .
the debate is closed .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the commission ' s position on the relationship between the legal system , community policies and sport is laid out in the report on safeguarding existing sporting structures and maintaining the social function of sport within the community , that the commission presented at the helsinki european council in december 1999 .
the commission feels that the treaty establishing the european community that is currently in force enables account to be taken of the specific nature of sport in general and of its social function in particular .
other equally important sports organisations , however , such as the national olympic committees , for example , or national sports federations , have specifically insisted on the need to develop community actions for the promotion of sport .
this is why the commission did not include in its opinion any request for new rules on community competence , for example in the field of sport .
in order to further highlight the specific nature of sport and even to provide guidance for the community institutions on how to deal with sports-related issues , at the behest of the french presidency , a draft declaration for the nice european council is now being prepared which would complement the conclusions of the santa maria da feira european council on this subject .
as this parliament stressed in the mennea report on the report for the helsinki council , this would be carried out in full respect of the community ' s legislative framework .
as a famous english footballer , jackie charlton , said , it is not just a matter of life and death ; it is more important than that .
i certainly agree with the commission that there is no need to have a mention of sport in the treaty .
although , unfortunately , sport still does not have a legal basis in the european union , it has many special features that must be taken into account in the work of the union .
sport affects all the citizens of europe , in one way or another .
the european parliament has often expressed its concern with regard to drugs and called for more effective action to counter their use .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , what is happening in sport in the european union , in particular in professional sport and , more specifically , in football , is the consequence of having a law without a policy , of having a law that no one really had any choice about .
we are not seeking to meddle with fundamental rules or basic principles of community law in the treaties .
what we want is to be able to construct in a politically free and carefully considered way a balance which is appropriate to the specific needs of a sector which , although it is of primarily cultural value and enormous social relevance , also has other , economic , facets .
i shall end with a reminder of one of the conclusions of the resolution that we voted for in september following the mennea report : " the european parliament invites the intergovernmental conference to include an explicit reference to sport in article 151 of the treaty , so that the european union will , in its actions , acknowledge the cultural , economic and social phenomenon that sport represents " .
in fact , the eu directive governing this field , which was adopted unanimously in 1993 , laid down the conditions under which member states could , if they wanted , apply user charges or motorway tolls .
accordingly , six member states , belgium , denmark , germany , luxembourg , the netherlands and sweden introduced a common user charge system often called the euro-vignette while austria continued to apply its own user charge system and france , italy , spain , portugal and greece maintained their already existing motorway toll system .
this means that by 1995 12 out of the 15 member states had adjusted their levy systems with more emphasis on direct charging and less on taxes .
however , the whole package of measures announced also includes other elements such as a reduction in the fuel taxes , similar to measures recently announced by other member states .
the commission will then have to investigate , as it does in the case of all other member states , whether or not such measures are likely to distort intra-community competition .
depending on the outcome of this analysis , the commission will decide on the next course of action in fulfilling its role of assisting member states in taking the measures which are right for them and while respecting the rights of others .
mr president , i thank the commissioner for his explanation and for the fact that he came in to talk on this subject this morning .
what he said is news to me because my understanding was that the proposal was a special tax on all foreign vehicles , which we assumed was all non-uk vehicles using the roads of the united kingdom .
it may be advantageous at this moment just to say what has actually been proposed by the uk government and also what they are proposing , bearing in mind the crisis in britain and indeed throughout the whole of the european union with regard to the road haulage industry .
in conclusion , we are being premature in the european parliament in holding this debate , but i welcome the fact and the statement from commissioner vitorino which clearly indicates that the uk government has the right to introduce a euro-vignette system provided it keeps within the rules and regulations already in place .
i believe that is what the uk government wishes .
not only is a lot of time lost and high costs incurred through congestion , but it is quite a major problem for the environment in particular , and i therefore believe that , if the british government is actually investing money in solving the problems , then we all have something to gain , particularly all european citizens .
i am sure the british government will be in discussion with the commission in applying this vignette .
that is a point we should be making quite clearly .
we are more or less the only oil producers in the european union and yet we face the highest petrol prices , the highest diesel prices of any country in europe - gbp 1.20 a litre for diesel is paid in the united kingdom .
i drove in austria in the summer and paid the austrian vignette which seemed to me to be perfectly fair and reasonable and a much more agreeable price than one pays on french motorways .
at long last the british government has come up with a reasonable solution .
the local haulier in denmark or in the uk will get his full money 's worth 365 days a year , but the foreign haulier from another member state entering that country - maybe for one or two days or ten days or even 100 days - will not .
the best thing the british could do with this extra money is to improve our system in the hope of improving uk-irish friendship and relations .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday , 17 november 2000 .
ladies and gentlemen , like all of you , i am sure , i would have liked to have been able to open this part-session without having to announce further news of the latest victims of eta terrorism .
unfortunately , our democracies have been sent a new message of violence in the form of the particularly heinous murder of ernest lluch .
known as a key player in the spanish transition to democracy and for his contribution to catalonia ' s autonomous status , loved for his warmth , respected for his qualities as a politician and a great academic , ernest lluch was targeted by his murderers purely because of his dedication to the rule of law .
madam president , i must protest against this decision , on the grounds that procedural motions can be made for very important , very serious reasons .
this has been noted , mr dell ' alba .
on many occasions parliament has expressed itself in favour of a firm stand on the kyoto commitments .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , thank you for inviting me to share with you my impressions of the sixth conference of the parties , the so-called cop6 , to the united nations framework convention on climate change , that took place the past two weeks in the hague .
after intensive negotiations , both at technical and ministerial level , on the basis of draft decisions with approximately 500 square brackets , it was not possible to reach a comprehensive agreement on key political issues .
the european union negotiating position concentrated on safeguarding the environmental integrity of the kyoto protocol in the areas of land-use change and forestry , the " sinks " issue , the relation between the kyoto mechanism and domestic action , known as " supplementarity " , and compliance .
with good technical progress on the rules for the kyoto mechanisms and the development of a compliance system , final negotiations focused mainly on trade-offs between " supplementarity " and " sinks " .
however , there was not enough time to fully evaluate last minute compromise proposals on the use of " sinks " in terms of their impact on the different countries inside and outside the european union .
in order not to let the mandate of the buenos aires plan of action , that ran until the so-called cop6 conference , expire without any concrete result or follow-up , parties have decided to suspend cop6 and resume the conference in may 2001 .
for example , a set of proposals responding to developing countries ' needs and concerns was drawn up , including new funding and new institutions , but also a more focused approach on climate change within the global environment facility - the so-called gef .
also progress was made at the technical level on other issues , such as policies and measures to reduce emissions , capacity building , technology transfer , emissions trading , joint implementation and compliance .
another positive outcome of cop6 is that it helped to obtain a better understanding of other parties ' positions .
mr pronk was a very dedicated president of cop6 .
consequently , there was not enough time to analyse all the impacts of the different proposals relating to sinks that were made in the final hours .
we all knew that , in order to get an agreement with the united states and its allies of the " umbrella group " , the european union would have to make concessions .
as a priority , evaluation and preparation of further discussions should take place within the european union .
the eu must review its positions on the key issues and , where appropriate , make new proposals .
the commission is fully committed to developing a strong common eu line together with the incoming presidency .
an absolute pre-condition for an agreement on " sinks " at the next session is to have one common set of data , instead of every party doing its own calculation .
however , the internal preparation for ratification through the european climate change programme and the development of a european union emissions trading scheme will continue .
thank you for your attention and i am willing to answer any questions you might have .
the european parliament delegation to the talks was equally disappointed at the outcome , although we were not surprised .
the agreement would have placed a ceiling on the use of forest sinks by the united states , japan and canada , a ceiling which europe had been asking for , and strengthen the scientific requirements applied to the domestic sinks .
the question is whether we actually need a global convention before we can start to reduce our own emissions .
madam president , these negotiations were always going to be hard but commission officials believed that a deal would be done at the end of the day because political leaders across the world simply had too much to lose by returning home empty-handed .
it is a matter of huge disappointment that agreement was not reached and i very much regret that the end of the convention was marred by a dispute between britain ' s deputy prime minister and the french presidency over the compromise proposals he put forward .
the disagreement within europe is all the more regrettable because my overriding impression of the convention was of a european union negotiating as a closely-knit team , from a position which crossed party lines and united member states behind shared principles , a shared outlook and a shared sense of anger at the refusal of the americans to face up to their responsibilities as the world ' s largest emitters of greenhouse gases .
therefore , we must give greater priority to bringing in and gaining the support of nations elsewhere , to getting emissions trading up and running , and to taking real action to reduce global warming gases in this union .
money talks in american politics more than it does within our union .
the developing countries are to receive usd 1 billion after 2005 .
if the clean development mechanism starts working then they will receive between usd 5 billion and usd 25 billion in addition , annually .
president pronk acquitted himself well as far as the developing countries are concerned but his compromise was lacking in terms of environmental issues .
of course forests eat up co2 but once they are fully grown this no longer happens .
the solution must be found in energy efficiency and renewable sources of energy .
fortunately , 14 of the 15 ministers for the environment were of the same mind on this issue .
every citizen of the world has an equal right to co2-emission , i.e .
only if equality is incorporated will the developing countries start to participate in the fight against climate change after 2012 .
parliament has recently pronounced itself in favour of a number of steps that will take us in the right direction .
the european position during the climate conference , which ended - and evidently broke down - in the hague last saturday , was characterised by two sharply conflicting views .
one view is that we should stick closely to the 1997 agreements in order to reduce emissions by a generous 5 % , as compared with 1990 .
my group favours the first view .
it is important for europe to stick with a position taken up previously , even though it means that the united states will not be in a position to subscribe to an agreement of this kind for the period of the bush administration .
finally , the third world is only in the very early stages of industrialisation .
the emission of greenhouse gases will increase dramatically as a result .
that is why we need to keep these realities in mind in the follow-up to the climate conference .
madam president , i am extremely disappointed , like the vast majority of the house and the previous speakers , that the un world climate change summit was not a success in the hague .
it is regrettable that the participants did not reach an agreement on how best to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the future .
the kyoto accord of three years ago set out a timetable for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions .
it has already been said that the next meeting to discuss the issue of the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will take place in bonn , which will coincide with a publication by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change .
the european union must take a lead in this matter .
the environment committee and parliament have set a good example in the past as to how we should collectively address the issue of greenhouse gas reductions in the future .
although i do not have a good word to say about the us stance , one thing i do know is that the united states were prepared to achieve an acceptable compromise at the end of the conference .
the intransigence of the european union , led by the french minister for the environment , mrs voynet , stood in the way of a potential agreement .
in reality , the chances of reaching agreement in the future are slimmer , which means that an effective strategy for tackling the climate problem is an even more remote prospect .
in any case , an agreement can only be accepted and acceptable if there is a balance between north and south , between developing countries and industrialised countries .
the conference in the hague is to be resumed , as you have informed us , commissioner , next spring in bonn .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , let us not beat about the bush , the climate conference in the hague was a flop , which is disappointing because it is becoming increasingly apparent that climate change is happening much faster than anticipated .
the european union is going to have to carefully assess its own role .
it is not enough to blame the united states or to complain about the lack of flexibility shown by others .
the climate conference will resume in the spring .
i am bound to regret the fact , however , that the will of some ministers of the 15 member states has been directed more towards racing to attend press conferences than creating a genuine spirit of unity that will guarantee a global policy on climate change .
by may , by bonn , the european union must take action on two fronts : firstly through diplomacy , since the scenario that the united states will ratify the agreement is the least likely , and so diplomatic action must be developed with the other members of the umbrella group .
only if we have this credibility will the european union be able to lead the debate and the action at cop vi " b " in bonn .
madam president , thank you for your support and a special thanks to the european parliamentary delegation who were there in the hague .
however , climate change has already happened , it is already there .
maybe we should not be too worried about taking a little more time , a few months more , to decide on the rules and the framework , the legal framework , that must be put in place in order to operate the huge economic market that will be created .
we had too much left on the table for these negotiations and we will have to try to sort that out .
sometimes these negotiations are extremely chaotic , and i think that you can always go home and look back saying that we made this mistake or that mistake .
however , for the environment ministers present at the hague , and you know we have also set the tone here , the main objectives were to defend the credibility and integrity of the kyoto protocol .
the americans presented us with a proposal that would have reduced their commitment by between 70 and 90 per cent .
we were very constructive and we negotiated until the last minute of these talks in the hague .
we now know what kind of questions we will have on the table for this last part .
of course the follow up of the next cop6 or the continuation of cop6 will be to ratify an agreement inside the union .
the debate is closed .
preparation of nice european council and trade policy the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the nice european council from 7 to 9 december 2000 , including trade policy .
the president of the republic himself is coming here on 12 december to present a report on the presidency .
the major issue facing the members of the european council at nice will clearly be the reform of the institutions and the finalisation of what we all hope will become the treaty of nice .
there was also a beneficial clarification of the issues around the commission and the weighting of votes , allowing each member state to get a better idea of the objectives and difficulties of the others .
pierre moscovici reported to you on that on 24 october .
we have been building on that foundation over the last few weeks taking all the points of view into account with a view to arriving at a compromise , but keeping our sights set on an ambitious agreement at nice .
some countries still have major problems regarding the coordination of social security systems , tax , asylum , visa and immigration matters and trade negotiations on services - a very important issue .
but we will approach nice with a positive attitude , determined to make progress as many aspects of these sensitive issues as possible .
the role of the european parliament is naturally one of the important elements in the debate .
the fifteen are now close to agreement on making enhanced cooperation more flexible .
you discussed this on 24 october , and on several points the intergovernmental conference is reaching solutions close to those advocated by parliament .
the minimum number of participating member states should be set at eight while the clause allowing appeal to the european council , which currently constitutes a real right of veto , would be replaced by a power of retrieval .
parliament has made proposals on its role in triggering enhanced cooperation in the community sphere .
as regards the cfsp , several member states have emphasised its specific nature which , in their view , warrants special mechanisms , and they have been stressing that particularly in the last few days .
on the commission , two options were on the table at biarritz : capping the number of commissioners , or a commission made up of one representative from each member state .
this at least provides a serious avenue to be explored in nice , one that still remains to be defined and clarified but on which a clear majority of the delegations is ready to work .
progress has also been made on increasing the powers of the president of the commission and a possible increase in the number of vice-presidents .
finally on the weighting of votes in the council , there are also two main options on the table since the biarritz declaration : either a double majority or a simple reweighting .
let me add that we have not yet reached agreement on the distribution of seats in the european parliament .
to end this brief report on the negotiations , we have also made good progress on strengthening article 7 of the treaty which should in future provide for an early warning system in the event of a threatened violation of the european union ' s fundamental principles .
on the other hand , the idea of a reference to the charter of fundamental rights in article 6 , championed by the european parliament in its recommendation of 14 november , and placed on the table at the igc by the french presidency , was vigorously rejected by several member states .
all the delegations agree on giving the european parliament the possibility of seeking the court ' s opinion on a draft international agreement .
on the other hand , even though the presidency has also proposed extending to parliament the right of appeal to the court under article 230 , several delegations are against that at this stage .
finding an agreement which will enable the union to operate after the new accessions currently in active preparation is vital for the future of the european union and indeed the enlarged union .
the nice european council will also be tackling other major issues on which the french presidency has worked with a great deal of determination .
the discussion on a possible legal status for this charter will be pursued after nice and could form part of a broader , longer term debate on the future of the european union .
the european council will also discuss the state of progress of the accession negotiations and hence of the enlargement .
you yourselves debated this on 3 october .
at the general affairs council of 20 november we had a very good debate based on the excellent documents the commission had forwarded to the council .
a meeting of that conference has just taken place at ministerial level , at sochaux .
at the nice meeting there will be an exchange of views with all the candidate countries on the reform of the european union ' s institutions , and more generally on the outlook for the future of europe .
the lisbon european council approved guidelines designed to promote an innovative and competitive european economy .
so a report will be passed to the european council which will finalise the definition of performance indicators in spheres such as employment , innovation , economic reform and social cohesion .
as you know , last monday the ecofin council reached a decisive agreement on fiscal harmonisation .
in this sphere , following on from lisbon , the french presidency made the adoption of the social agenda one of its priorities .
the presidency invited all the institutions concerned - this parliament , but equally the economic and social committee , the committee of the regions , european social partners and the intergovernmental organisations - to contribute to drawing up this agenda .
the social agenda draws together the objectives and initiatives which need to be taken over the next five to ten years , particularly in the areas of labour law , social protection , social mobility , lifelong training , and the fight against discrimination and exclusion .
a report on the measures the presidency has taken in this area will be presented to the european council in nice .
the french presidency set itself the objective of improving the definition of the precautionary principle .
the biarritz european council took note of the commission report on the necessary additional measures .
i know that the european parliament is working on the first package .
you know , moreover , the importance which member states attach to adopting texts quickly .
this entire area must be given fresh political impetus in nice with a view to the final transport council on 20 and 21 december , for it is true that the french presidency does not come to an end in nice .
the french presidency wished to support the updating of the commission ' s 1996 communication on the services of general economic interest with some consideration of the place of public services or , to use the accepted term , general interest services in europe .
the presidency wanted to restate the basic principles governing the community ' s approach in this area , including primarily the freedom of member states to define and organise their own public services while respecting the rules of the treaty .
these principles will be highlighted in a statement which the presidency wishes to annex to the nice conclusions .
finally , we have prepared a statement for the european council on the specific economic , social and cultural characteristics of sport and its social functions in europe .
the primary purpose of a new treaty is to ensure that the union will continue to be able to function after enlargement .
i am now pleased to say that the negotiators are close to an agreement on the provisions governing , for example , closer cooperation , the court of justice , the democratic values of article 7 and deepening the involvement of european political parties in the democratic life of our member states and institutions .
i sense that we are approaching a reasonable compromise on the composition of the commission and the weighting of votes in the council .
whatever the number of commissioners , the important thing is to give the president of the commission all the powers needed to run the college effectively .
similarly , any change in the weighting of votes in the council must also guarantee that decisions cannot be taken against the will of the majority of member states .
if the union is to be effective , the conference must make substantial progress on this , and that also means extending the codecision procedure . ( applause ) member states naturally find it politically difficult to give up the right of veto in sensitive areas such as social policy , asylum and immigration , common trade policy , cohesion and taxation , even when this relates only to the technical changes necessary to make the single market work .
indeed , mathematics and 50 years of experience show beyond a doubt that even modest enlargements make it far more difficult to reach unanimous agreements .
in a union of 27 or more member states , the unanimity requirement will , quite simply , paralyse progress in every area where it is maintained .
mark my words : if the member states ' veto on justice and home affairs is maintained , we shall be severely delayed in implementing the programme agreed at tampere or even unable to do so .
under the present rules , certain aspects of negotiations on services are covered by the unanimity requirement , precisely because our treaties were originally commercial treaties governing goods and not services .
the problem currently plaguing our trade policy is that , because negotiations cover a wide range of sectors , including services , any progress whatsoever in goods as well as service sectors is almost inevitably held up by unanimity voting .
the simple and natural solution - and this has , in fact , been a majority view during the conference - would be to change the present rules so that qualified majority voting applies to all aspects of such negotiations , including services .
at the next plenary session in strasbourg , i shall tell this house whether , in my view , the enlarged union we are all determined to achieve will be able to act effectively or not .
when all is said and done , that is the criterion by which nice must be judged . ( applause ) important decisions will be taken in nice to ensure that the european union is able to assume its own responsibilities in the world .
the prevention of conflict and crisis management are traditional areas of community activity .
it is our task to fulfil our commitments against the backdrop of new ambitious objectives which the union has set itself .
i would stress that this in no way detracts from the fact that , for the member states concerned , nato remains the basis of the collective defence of its members and will continue to play an important role in crisis management .
the commission is convinced that only an integrated approach to crises can guarantee the consistency and efficiency necessary for the union to be able to play its full role on the international scene .
crisis management requires the community to show an increased capacity to react , but this must be translated into action in a way that fully respects our institutional framework as established by the treaties .
you spoke of codecision by the european parliament .
the majority of our group take the view that the charter should not only be ceremonially proclaimed but should also become european law .
i would like the council to comment on the fact that the cooperation procedure is being replaced by consultation in relation to economic policy ( article 99 ( 5 ) ) , and yet unanimity is being maintained in article 13 ( anti-discrimination ) .
with regard to enhanced cooperation , we believe that in the first pillar there should be assent from parliament and , in commercial policy , i repeat our concern and our request for a strengthening , not a weakening , of community competence .
with regard to the composition and functioning of the three institutions , my group agrees with the proposal of the joint resolution .
i believe that this would even go back on what was agreed in biarritz .
i think this is completely unacceptable and , of course , it is a good argument in favour of ending the closed door method for the intergovernmental conferences , which has had its day , so that we can hold discussions in public and find out who could say such scandalous things . ( applause ) i also hope that the president will not mind if i repeat that we believe it is important that we can advocate the charter with dignity , regardless of what we do after nice .
two things were said at helsinki to candidate states in europe .
we in this parliament will be required at the end of that process to give or not to give our assent .
my appeal to you , mr president-in-office , is to present us in this parliament a document worthy of this parliament 's assent and a document worthy of the scale of the historic challenge we face in europe .
to do less than that is to fail europe and this house , when it reviews nice , cannot allow europe to fail .
it should not become an issue which traduces the union into a false contest between the interests of the large and the small , when the common european interest should be the central goal .
we support enhanced cooperation but insist that it must be open-ended and open to all and not exclusive and must be based and rooted in a way which respects the ' acquis communautaire ' .
if we proclaim it as something with meaning , it must find roots , and we still commend to you to root it in article 6 .
i believe that we can succeed but , mr president-in-office , we need your presidency to mobilise the council for europe by animating the nice council to achieve something which is genuinely historic .
however , it is important at this stage to discuss what is to happen post-nice .
our group strongly supports constitutionalising the european union treaties , and this also means that the reform of the treaties should be open , with civil society being able to participate in this process .
the nice summit cannot succeed unless the system of qualified majority voting is extended .
madam president , mr president of the council , mr president of the commission , i do not believe that the governments of the 15 member states have covered themselves in glory .
the summit will only be a success if it opts for truly comprehensive reform of the institutions and sends a clear signal that this union is capable of enlargement .
if democracy is to be strengthened , this naturally implies that majority voting must be accompanied by a right of codecision for the european parliament .
but success in nice also means that there must be more than mere proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights .
i find it quite intolerable that several governments have simply brushed aside the question of including a reference to the charter in article 6 of the treaty .
let me say clearly , just as other members before me have done , that in my view a reference to the charter in the treaty is just as indispensable as a broad public debate with the people of the union .
the real success or failure of nice will be measured by whether governments finally begin to take people 's concerns and needs seriously .
the european union must attach foremost political priority to the struggle against unemployment , poverty and social exclusion .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , a week away from the nice european council , we are forced to note that it is still not very clear what institutional measures are going to be adopted .
matters are particularly vague regarding the , to my mind , key issue of the potential extension of majority voting within the council , particular on two truly vital issues .
as much as we think international cooperation is essential , we find it unacceptable to use majority voting to force the hand of one or more member states on such issues of sovereignty .
there is another area of uncertainty involving the extension of the community procedures of article 133 to the negotiation of international agreements on services , intellectual property and investments .
let us not start again tomorrow with a new multilateral agreement on investment or new talks on agriculture post seattle .
over qualified majority voting and weighting , there will , in all probability , be vetos from all sides which will paralyse the demands of parliament and the public for a move towards democratisation of our system , towards making majority voting the general rule .
i therefore appeal to president prodi , who has rightly promised that he will tell us in strasbourg whether or not the commission will be able act effectively , whether or not the union will be able to act effectively after the nice summit .
mr prodi , present your objections to the summit , assume the responsibility , not of establishing a role for us as the post-nice panel of judges , but of playing right to the very last the card of defending first and foremost the european institutions , the commission and parliament in particular .
mr president , the draft nice treaty is more like a constitution for a federal state than an agreement for an association of states .
the powers to be given to the eu by the treaty of nice treaty go beyond those exercised at federal level in many federal states .
decisions on foreign and security policy are also to be adopted on the basis of majority voting .
with enhanced cooperation , the right of veto over treaty changes is also destroyed - not formally , but in practice - because a qualified majority will in future be able to ignore resistance from , for example , denmark , sweden and great britain or other places in which the undemocratic idea might arise of asking the electorate what it thinks .
the federalists can achieve their desire for more integration , and the governments in sweden , great britain and denmark can ease their countries into the new arrangements once the decisions , binding in practice , have been taken .
nice will transfer so much power from the electorate that it ought to be treated as a genuine constitutional change and only come into force once it has been approved in referendums in those countries in which referendums are possible .
mr president , the very title of this item on our agenda indicates the importance of article 133 in the debate on the extension of qualified majority voting .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr prodi , what matters most as far as the ppe-de group is concerned , is for the igc to reach a successful conclusion .
but according to our heads of government , it is also a question of demonstrating that there is no adequate solution to the major issues confronting us in the european union .
mr president , europe needs leadership , clarity , choices and decisiveness .
in view of the extent to which public confidence has been undermined with regard to the euro , people need to see that we are taking steps forward .
it is extremely sad that a situation has developed where large and small countries have come to take opposite sides .
the commission is , and remains , the driving force , and if the commission does not emerge from nice in a stronger position then it will be a black day for europe .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , parliament is required to give its opinion on essential matters .
we understand that not all the elements are on the table yet , but i trust that wisdom will carry the day at the nice summit .
for us members of the european parliament , the essential thing is primarily to make our voice heard where it might be useful .
as practically everyone who has spoken before me here has said , we want a reference to the charter in article 6.2 .
the second point i should like to stress is , obviously , the scope of qualified majority .
in that respect , there are various proposals on the table .
regarding trade policy , the commission has drawn up a proposal which must be carefully examined .
we are in favour of developing democratic responsibility in this area .
however , while we feel that this proposal needs to be examined carefully , it must also enable all parties to conserve the elements that make up their identity , particularly , no doubt , europe ' s cultural identity .
as you know , mr president-in-office of the council , we shall also examine qualified majority voting according to the yardstick of extending the scope of codecision .
in that respect , let me draw your attention to one specific point : the extension of codecision to the common agricultural policy .
if we trust to democracy , then it is not normal for 45 % of the eu budget to lie outside the scope of codecision .
yes , we do think that the nice council conclusions should include a request that the commission should draw up a framework directive in this field .
although the previous treaty made some progress in extending the formula , it also brought in the crazy formula of codecision plus unanimity for citizenship , social security , the rights of the self-employed and also cultural policy .
those who are in nice , out on the streets and in the dozens of forums and meetings scheduled will , in my opinion , at least be able to push for one result , namely that this will be the last igc , that the hazy reflection on the future of europe mr vedrine spoke of will translate into the launch at nice of a process which will establish the time frames and methods for drawing up and adopting a democratic european constitution .
mr president , i was involved in securing denmark ' s positive vote against the treaty of maastricht in 1992 .
a decision in nice to the effect that , for example , the applicant states must have the opportunity to participate in the next elections to the european parliament could help put the necessary pressure on the eu itself , so that enlargement can become a reality .
with regard to the conclusion of the igc , what must take place in nice is that an agreement must be reached which whilst correcting the deficit in the functioning of the european institutions , does not affect the existing balance between member states and , of course , between these states and the union .
the very fact that this issue is being debated now is in itself a clear sign of the failure of a policy to strengthen ties of mutual trust between the countries that comprise the union .
we are not the only ones to say this ; the french presidency has also said as much through its minister , mr moscovici , who acknowledged in a recent interview that the positions that have been adopted during the course of this year , particularly by president chirac and by the german minister for foreign affairs , joschka fischer , on the future organisation of the union have had the direct effect of heightening a climate of mistrust between small and large member states , which will inevitably be reflected in the results of the nice european council .
furthermore , the text of the proposal for a compromise resolution that we will be voting on reflects this unease to a certain extent , because its generic nature is clear to see .
it is also , however , a text in which its authors , even in the knowledge that they risk predictable political failure , reveal a vision that is focused above all on the powers and competences of the european parliament itself , and call for ever greater resources for parliamentary intervention without dedicating a single word to the crucial role of national parliaments .
we all know that the purpose of the nice summit is to finalise the work of a conference held between governments , who are accountable not to the european parliament but to their own national parliaments , which categorically demonstrates the sovereign nature of this process of revising the treaties .
mr president , mr president of the council , mr president of the commission , today at talks in the house , the president of latvia directed this reproachful remark at us : " we have been doing our homework ! " the question is whether the heads of state and government of the european union have been doing their homework too .
it is now the eve of its conclusion and we are aware of the progress which has been made , the partial results which have been achieved , but frankly , over almost ten months of a major intergovernmental conference , there has been no rapprochement of the positions , mr vedrine , and no definition of agreements , not to mention the fact that some of the topics indicated by parliament in its resolution of 13 april , ranging from the regulation of the economy to the institutional implications of the common defence policy , have not even been debated .
the experience of this year has convinced us that , looking beyond nice towards the future of europe , the process of constitutionalising the union must not be carried out by means of the - now dysfunctional - method of negotiations between government representatives .
the committee on constitutional affairs has made its contribution in the form of the resolution adopted on 21 november , which draws attention to certain points which are truly vitally important if the outcome of the conference is to be successful , and i will not go back over them .
if this contradiction is responsible for the negative outcome of the conference , it will mean a crisis for european integration .
mr president , even paris is divided over nice .
the french president and the first minister seem to be more obsessed with their own political future than with that of europe .
it seems as if some governments are already reconciling themselves to a new igc for enlargement .
the governments have lost sight of the urgent need for reforms because they are concentrating too much on their own position of power in the new set-up .
the weighting of votes in the council must do justice to the population numbers in the member states , which means that it is quite acceptable for there to be some corresponding differences between the larger and smaller countries .
the charter does not deserve to be left in a vacuum , with no clear status .
mr president i would like to remind the council and commission , and indeed the house , of a resolution that we carried on 26 october in relation to better law-making .
it bears also in a most important way on the question of the size of this parliament .
the nations and regions which the parties of the european free alliance represent are deeply concerned that if we apply together the maximum of 700 and the current idea of digressive proportionality , the people whom we are able to represent here at the present time will effectively cease to be represented in this house .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , for a youngster like me , nice certainly represents a great hope for a new europe , in political as well as institutional terms .
on the other hand , i would stress the considerable importance of providing our europe with strong institutions to fill the institutional void being created by progress on the economic front with the euro .
having said this , in my opinion , nice needs to be an historic council , for ourselves , our nations and the very future of europe .
mr president , in this parliament , which is a pluralist parliament , we have today achieved an unusual degree of unanimity amongst the members who have spoken .
i believe that all the speakers are very concerned about the results of the nice european council .
this is not a question - despite what my friend , elmar brok , has said - of two exams that we have to pass ; amsterdam and nice .
i remember the enlargement of 1995 , when the question of institutional issues was already being raised , and i remember a letter from chancellor kohl in which he told us to approve enlargement and then the rest would be resolved immediately .
this is what worries us and it worries all this afternoon ' s speakers .
and with this extension , when the decisions are legislative , will there always be codecision with parliament ?
the second one , mr president , is the charter of fundamental rights .
mr president-in-office of the council , that is the great political task of this european council .
the stated aim of this review is to design more efficient institutions which will be able to cope with an enlarged europe and , at the same time , to reduce the democratic deficit which certainly exists .
in the case of enhanced cooperation , no agreement has yet been reached on making provision for assent by the european parliament in order to start the procedure .
finally , not only has the charter of fundamental rights not yet been incorporated into the text of the treaty ; it has barely even been agreed to mention it in article 6 .
of course , i am delighted about the positive aspects , such as the issue of european political parties and article 7 , which have already been commented on .
the national parliaments are waiting for our opinion .
mr president , the debate on article 133 and commercial policy needs to be part of a much wider effort to bring transparency and democracy to the eu ' s decision-making on trade .
that means it is not only a question of the parliament having a much greater role in decision-making on trade .
but it also means restructuring the committee 133 itself : making it far more accountable ; ensuring that its agenda and conclusions are accessible and that its composition is broad and inclusive .
mr president , the eu summit at nice will hopefully be a further positive step on the road to european integration .
the recent commission report on the progress of the countries from central and eastern europe who have made application for membership is encouraging i must say .
we must not forget that our ultimate goal is to create the economic and social environment to enable the eu to become a dominant player in world trade with the countries of central and eastern europe playing their full part and benefiting from a peaceful and stable european economy .
however enlargement of the european union must not dilute or dissipate the influence of smaller member states with key national interests which must be protected .
mr president , i am addressing the commission president and the president-in-office of the council in french in order to get my message across as clearly as possible .
we must instigate a major debate among the citizens of europe , getting them involved in our debates .
in conclusion , i urge you , mr president-in-office of the council and mr president of the commission to give some thought to the provisions which would have to be incorporated into the treaty of nice in order for us to have this major debate and to avoid the utterly kremlin-style approach of agreeing matters behind closed doors , in order to instigate debate with a view to a new european framework , whether or not it be constitutional , so that we may have direct contact with our electorate and may make a major success of the european union in the future .
mr president , i am speaking not just to the president-in-office of the council but also to all the governments of the member states when i say that if agreement is not reached in nice on these difficult issues those issues will not go away .
so a final major effort is necessary over the next two weeks .
this is no more so than on the issue of qualified majority voting .
the problem is if you put the lists of exceptions next to each other you will find there are very few areas of substance where it is agreed to switch to qualified majority voting .
of course some governments will be attacked in their member states by opposition parties , by euro-sceptics , saying , " you are giving up the national right of veto " .
so in a union of 27 member states for every veto you trade in , 26 other vetoes are being given up at the same time .
everyone can gain from a system of qualified majority voting .
if we are to have more qualified majority voting on legislation it must go hand in hand with codecision , not only for the new areas which will come to qualified majority voting but also for the existing areas that already come under qualified majority voting .
this is essential for democracy at union level .
to adopt european legislation you must pass two tests : acceptability to the elected governments meeting in the council , and acceptability to the directly-elected meps in the european parliament .
in more than three quarters of the cases we do not even need the conciliation committee ; the two readings each in council and parliament are enough to reach agreement .
finally , there is the question of the number of seats in the european parliament .
but a first transition will also have to be made for the parliament to be elected in 2004 because at least some new member states will come in before or during the parliament to be elected in 2004 which will last until 2009 .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen .
as far as voting in the council is concerned , i think that the double majority is the best system because it is more representative and more objective .
as far as extending qualified majority voting is concerned , we are agreed that , unless we make some sort of move in this direction , we shall encounter a great many problems .
as far as foreign policy is concerned , we now live in mr solana 's bright and beautiful world and let me tell you - if we leave the common foreign policy solely within the framework of intergovernmental cooperation , then we shall be making a big mistake .
the common foreign policy needs to be fully integrated into community procedure because only then shall we have the necessary safety valves .
finally , mr president-in-office of the council , i must , of course , mention the charter , which affects millions of european citizens .
mr president i wish to focus my speech on three basic points .
the president-in-office of the council addressed the issue of closer cooperation and said that we are on the way to reaching consensus on this matter .
the second issue concerns the overall agreement already considered here by my colleague and chairman of the socialist group , enrique baron crespo , which is , fortunately , part of the resolution that the european parliament will surely adopt tomorrow .
according to how one sees the matter , however , what is being prepared now is a change to this balance and an increase in the representation of the larger countries , both in the council and in parliament .
in other words , we are sending them the message that in europe we treat consumers better than we treat the citizens of the european union themselves .
we therefore encourage and urge the presidency once again to make every effort to ensure that there is at least one reference to the treaties in nice because this would be the best tribute we could pay to the work of the members of the european parliament , the commission and even the representatives of the governments involved in the convention on drafting the charter .
our public in the eu and the public in the candidate countries will not accept the prospect of nice leftovers , of a second igc in 2004 .
i hope that we are in a position to congratulate the french presidency for its success ; but if you fail , we shall be harsh in our condemnation .
mr president , on the face of it , the nice summit is all about making the necessary adaptations and dealing with the leftovers in the light of enlargement .
that is why qualified majority voting must always go hand in hand with parliament ' s right of codecision .
so we evidently make an enormous contribution in qualitative terms .
as mrs beres said , it is of course untenable to draw a distinction and give us codecision rights in consumer affairs on the one hand , but at the same time , only give us consultation rights in agricultural matters .
mr mendez de vigo has just made reference to the charter , and rightly so .
i venture to doubt whether consensus will be easier to achieve in the new extended family than it is now .
president prodi , it will not be easy for you , just as it will not be easy for the heads of state and government together with whom you will have to find a solution to the many issues under debate , including the vital enlargement , the reform of the institutions and the replacement of outdated mechanisms , and the proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights , which is the first real step towards the european constitution in which we believe .
with regard to freedoms , individual rights and scientific research , the peoples and their representatives who are present in this and the national parliaments must have the final say .
in short , we must all aim high , and , in order to do this , we must believe implicitly in what we are doing .
i think it was first mentioned in 1989 actually .
some member states were even against mentioning social affairs or new rights .
we proposed that during the discussions and several countries opposed it , threatening to withdraw their agreement to the very principle of the charter if we insisted on article 6 .
the presidency must be democratic .
i would also say that i do not think there is a problem between ' larger and ' smaller ' countries .
in the matter of the intergovernmental conference , the only issue where people said there was a disagreement between larger and smaller countries lay with the commission .
that is inaccurate too , because the proposals made were not proposals by the larger countries to penalise the smaller ones .
as regards what has been said on qualified majority voting , mr poettering will forgive me , but i thought it was a little bit facile to name just one country and act as if that country ' s shift in its position relating to its own problems was sufficient to bring about a large shift in the others .
in developing the idea that it would be advantageous in the future to have a commission that was not too large to be effective and retained its full capabilities , especially its power of initiative , we demonstrated that we too were ready to make that sacrifice .
the same applies to qualified majority voting issues .
if one country has an internal problem , that does not make another country ' s internal problem disappear .
we have done a great deal of work , but we have run up against the same old problem and i do not think a shift in a single country can start the ball rolling , because yet again we are faced with very tough national , political and democratic situations in twelve of the fifteen countries .
i am quite aware that it will not become a constitution overnight , but i also know full well that it will be a constant reference point for us from nice onwards with regard to the principles according to which the european institutions are to proceed and the principles which the european peoples are to follow to unite in preparation for future cooperation .
to sum up , mr vedrine , you mentioned that the situation here appears to be too tense , and you also spoke of a certain pessimism .
well then , i would like to reply to your appeal with an appeal of my own .
i am well aware that 15 countries will make the decisions at nice and that the role of the presidency is not to be a one-man-band , but i have also learned through experience what the role of the presidency and the responsibility of the french presidency are .
in recent weeks , we have with great confidence and responsibility presented the french presidency with a series of major decisions to be taken , aware of the role that france has consistently played in advancing the progress of the european institutions .
although , as you rightly said , we cannot place all the responsibility upon france , we do know that france must demonstrate its great leadership abilities as a driving force by example .
but we also expect something else from france .
however , in my opinion , the presidency 's role is of fundamental importance in this case as well , because i am quite aware that , if france is able to interpret the general interest with regard to the decisions on article 133 , none of the other countries will be able to resist the change .
we are all awaiting this step forward for it is not a step forward just for france but for the whole of europe . ( applause ) this minister , is what we expect from france , inspired precisely by the great confidence which we have in your country and in the leadership ability that we know france can display at difficult times in europe 's progress . ( applause ) thank you very much mr president of the commission .
to conclude these statements , i have received nine motions for resolutions from eight groups , in accordance with rule 37 , paragraph 2 of the rules of procedure ..
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow .
i wish to refer to the disgraceful demonstration that took place in the foreign affairs committee of this parliament yesterday morning when the turkish minister of foreign affairs was involved in discussions with us .
to that end , we must put the requisite organisational and security structure in place , which also means our guests being directly protected by people who are trained for that purpose , because we naturally cannot employ foreign security staff to escort our guests .
please take this very seriously , so that we can continue to receive guests in future and so that we can treat them as guests ought to be treated .
i would say to mr wurtz that it is a part of the process of trying to open up the prospect of european integration for turkey that we show them the sanctity and power of parliamentary democracy .
mr president , i should like to draw both your and the house 's attention to the incident which mr wurtz referred to , i.e .
the fact that the turkish government refused a visa to the cypriot member of parliament and parliamentary representative of akel , andreas christou , who was due to attend a meeting of turkish , greek and cypriot parties in istanbul .
it goes without saying that we in this house of european democracy must guarantee the safety of all our guests and anyone who spends time within these four walls .
mr president , i am just taking the floor to inform you that a delegation of workers from telecom italia is present in parliament today .
telecom italia is a leading company in the telecommunications sector .
pino arlacchi , under secretary-general of the united nations and executive director of the un office for drug control and crime prevention , condemned the italian minister for health 's speech , for the minister was clearly ignorant of the good news on prevention recorded in the united states , spain and even bolivia and peru , and mr arlacchi called upon the italian government ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) at the beginning of today 's sitting , madame president paid homage to the memory of ernest lluch .
in 1966 , ernest lluch , his brother and myself , with more than 60 other members of the teaching staff were expelled by the francoist regime from the university of barcelona .
from that time on , in spite of our different political opinions , i recognised the sincere commitment of ernest lluch in the struggle for dialogue and understanding , even facing the authoritarian position of the present government .
mr president , last year the council took an excellent initiative to create the first european union forum on human rights .
this excellent initiative was repeated this year and the second forum will be held on 12 and 13 december in paris , which is to say at the same time as the european parliament ' s part-session in strasbourg .
i would therefore urge that , in response , our official representatives are not sent to this forum , and that , next year , a date should be agreed when members of parliament may attend , which means the dates of the strasbourg sittings should be avoided when scheduling this important meeting .
mr gorostiaga , i have profound contempt for the terrorists of eta , but the people who use this democratic parliament in a cowardly fashion to justify the murders they commit deserve the same contempt .
mr gorostiaga , you are a disgrace to this parliament .
