the situation in colombia is that of a latent civil war in which , over several decades , the violence has taken on a structural nature .
in that situation , there are various groups who use violence .
i am referring not only to the paramilitary organisations and the guerrillas , but also to the drug trafficking organisations .
at times , even military units use violence and violate human rights .
in a situation of this kind , the attempt to establish peace zones , for example through the peace communities established in the rural region of uraba , has faced great difficulties .
but the fact is that , since 1997 , there have been three murders , the most recent on 8 july of this year , and the peace community of la union and the intercongregational committee for justice and peace , including the irish franciscan priest brendan forde , have had repeated death threats , despite their position of remaining neutral and contributing to bringing peace to the area .
we think that this situation again requires the strongest possible action on the part of the european institutions .
we urge the commission , obviously in cooperation with parliament , to provide the colombian government with all our political force and capacity for pressure so that finally the desired peace can come to colombia and these tragic situations of assassinations , deaths and murders do not happen again .
this year we have heard in ireland , as is obvious from the concern expressed by irish colleagues here today , of the danger facing father brendan forde , a franciscan working in the small village of la union who has chosen to remain with his parishioners at considerable danger to his own life .
they do not cover a number of serious issues like plan colombia and the grave human rights abuses that are taking place in the country .
it has been stated by many human rights organisations that human rights abuses by paramilitaries have the support of the armed forces and that the murder of the poor people in rural areas is as a result of this .
the only group that wanted to address plan colombia and the whole human rights situation in colombia was our own group .
mr president , when president pastrana appeared before this parliament he committed himself to working for peace in his country , but he forgot to mention three quite important issues .
secondly , that such serious problems as cocaine growing and violence can only be solved through peace talks with the far and the eln .
and thirdly , that he was preparing plan colombia for military intervention in the area with the united states , going behind the backs of european and world opinion .
secondly , that the european union must condemn plan colombia and demand that the solution to the conflict be a negotiated and peaceful one , in order to avoid this escalation of military action .
and thirdly , the european union must demand that president pastrana puts an end to all violations of human rights by paramilitary groups in his country , and that the sad world records of thousands of victims that are reached each year should come to an end .
therefore , allow me to also add - as has already been said , but i think that it is worth saying it specifically - that the european union should establish a human rights observatory in latin america , associated with the united nations observatory that already exists .
because there are so many countries , but above all colombia , that fail to guarantee respect for democracy and human rights , it is our responsibility to give adequate help to the region , which has such importance for us and for the world .
mr president , could i say directly to commissioner nielson that i wrote to you on 18 august expressing my concern about the life and the plight of father brendan forde , the irish priest whose life is currently under threat in the complex political circumstances that pertain in colombia .
could i add to that the name of one young man born and raised in ireland , tristan james murray , whose mother comes from my part of ireland in wexford , and his colombian colleague , javier nova , young environmentalists missing since july .
we all have concerns that plan colombia might escalate the conflict and increase the influence of the guerrillas out there .
we have to raise the international profile of all the people , including the communities whose lives are under threat and we trust commissioner nielsen you will do all you can for us .
in my opinion , parliament must now find the courage to make its voice heard , for , to make reference to amnesty international once again , all the parties taking part in the conflict are responsible for the violations of human rights in columbia , but one of them - the paramilitaries - has a greater responsibility .
as has been pointed out , president pastrana appeared before this house and offered to make a substantial effort to bring all the parties to dialogue .
mr president , as manolo medina said , once again we are talking about colombia .
however , the last time a human rights defender was assassinated in colombia was in may .
luis guillermo perez , also a human rights defender , insists that there is a plan , called the hundred plan , to assassinate up to one hundred human rights defenders .
the european union , mr president , should , in my opinion , do something more than expressing its concern , demanding the safety of its citizens and reiterating its support for the peace negotiation efforts initiated by president pastrana with the paramilitary groups .
i would like to recall the words of president pastrana in this parliament : " i believe that a decent and democratic future is not possible without a culture of respect for fundamental rights .
that is why we cannot just stop at words of condemnation , but we must move on to action and also demand that the lome peace agreements are complied with and that all the militias are disarmed .
however , as long as poverty continues to rule in sierra leone , until the trafficking of diamonds is put to an end once and for all and the arms trade is ended , there will be no chance of peace for this tortured country .
the european union must therefore use every means within its power , not only in order to help fund the peace process , but also , above all , in order to make it possible to establish living conditions that make peace irreversible .
but , above all , we need decisive action on the part of the european union , the member states and the whole of the international community in order to put an end to diamond trafficking in the area .
as long as a country ' s natural wealth is only benefiting warlords , that is , as long as diamonds enable the paramilitaries to have sufficient capital to provide themselves with arms and continue their activities , peace will be nothing more than an impossible dream .
on 5 july , the security council instituted an embargo on diamonds from sierra leone .
i believe that , for this reason , it is not sufficient to curb the diamond trade in sierra leone .
we should also continue to support the government , but i also believe that support for the war tribunal is absolutely necessary .
these armed gangs , including the ruf , certainly do not represent the interests of the people of sierra leone , in terms either of their methods or their objectives .
mr president , the situation in sierra leone has been the subject of our urgent debates on several occasions , and we have always dealt with it by encouraging peace talks , national reconciliation and aid for the displaced population , and by calling for an international criminal justice system that can try those responsible for the genocide that is being committed in that country .
we are talking about a kidnapping carried out by criminals who have no political links , either with the members of the former military junta or with any of the groups that signed the peace agreement in july 1999 .
the international presence in sierra leone is a good example of the perseverance on the part of the international community in seeking world peace .
therefore , taking on that responsibility , we are in support of the european parliament addressing the government of sierra leone today and calling for the immediate and unconditional release of the british soldiers who have been taken hostage .
possibly the most important founding principle of the european union was peace and those who seek to join the union must try to conduct their domestic and their foreign affairs in as peaceable a fashion as possible .
turkey 's membership of nato presents many of our member states with a special responsibility in this respect .
the development of a common european security and defence policy should be seen as a pretext , and also as a bridge , for us to reach common positions on ways to combat terrorism while respecting fundamental rights .
over 32 people were killed and 40 were injured in the bombing of kurdish villages by the turkish military in kendakor on 15 august .
it is a sign of the turkish government 's attitude towards peace and towards the kurds at a time when the kurds had made a peaceful gesture .
i welcome the meda programme , which states that all state , legal , political , cultural and social discrimination against the kurdish population by the turkish government should cease .
this will have given me an opportunity to address a number of points that i will be taking up in the report this assembly has asked me to draw up on enlargement to turkey and its accession to the eu .
if it turns out that the bombardment of kendakor on 15 august was carried out by the turkish army , we will have to encourage the turkish government gradually to reduce the role its armed forces continue to play , on the pretext of combating terrorism , in areas likely to cast serious doubt on the credibility of turkey ' s wish to join the european union .
mr president , as my colleague mrs uca said , it is unacceptable for a country that wishes to become a member of the european union to bombard defenceless people , kill more than 30 civilians and injure more than 40 people .
and of course , we also must condemn the hypocrisy of some member states which , breaking the code of conduct for exporting arms to countries that could use them in the way that turkey did in this particular case , export arms there .
we also feel that the european union should monitor each of the candidate countries primarily with regard to human rights .
they also seem determined to find a solution .
the ec is a major donor of humanitarian aid to the refugees and to date has spent more than eur 11 million .
the commission has used every opportunity to urge both sides to achieve tangible results .
a number of eu member states have made the same commitment .
we also condemned the restrictions on the freedom of movement of aung san suu kyi and other members of the national league for democracy and the routine practice of arbitrary arrests .
at the same time , the commission expressed its support for the common eu position on burma and for the decision of the april 2000 general affairs council to strengthen this common position .
the aim must be to arrive at a mutually agreed solution to the present situation , re-establishing respect for international standards of human rights in burma .
the eu has already clearly expressed its support for aung san suu kyi 's call on people from all civilised countries to refrain from tourist visits to burma .
this was a simple exercise in thuggery by an administration acting in panic .
the commission deeply deplores and condemns this situation and calls all parties in the conflict to respect humanitarian law and principles .
the commission fully shares parliament 's concerns over the recent kidnapping of eleven british soldiers in sierra leone .
we would like to express our solidarity with the soldiers and their families .
we would welcome any decision by the united nations security council to strengthen the un force in sierra leone .
the security council 's resolution of 5 july this year banning the illicit trade in diamonds from sierra leone has now been transposed into community law .
the commission remains supportive of the government 's attempts to restore peace to the country and to implement programmes of economic recovery .
economic recovery is being assisted through a eur 8.2 million programme of budgetary support and a technical assistance programme supporting improved public financial management .
as regards humanitarian assistance , the commission , through echo , is continuing to finance programmes in support of displaced and refugee communities through international ngos and the un .
this is especially important , given the terrible situation for child soldiers and children in general in sierra leone .
what is needed for a return to normal life in the area is stability , peace and support for economic development .
i realise that this is perhaps not the time to discuss this , but i would like the commission to answer us , even if it is in writing .
the european union with the support of this parliament has already done much to raise the technical and operational safety of soviet-type nuclear reactors and to create independent regulators .
mr president , many eu member states have a very friendly relationship with the czech republic , and even one based on family ties .
nuclear power stations in the european union have the highest safety standards in the world , and a candidate country that wants to commission a new nuclear power station must , of course , comply with those standards .
now , all of a sudden , trial operation is to start at temelin , with undue haste and in a few days ' time , before germany and austria , which are neighbouring countries , have received the information requested and before the deeply concerned population of the neighbouring countries has had an opportunity to consider the position and make their objections known to the czech authorities .
i call on the czech government , indeed i implore it , to take seriously the fears not only of people in neighbouring countries , but also within its own borders .
i appeal once again to the czech government to act voluntarily now in just the same way as they would have to act if they already belonged to the european union and were a member of our great european family .
mr president , i would first like to thank my colleagues for their constructive and objective cooperation , which has resulted in this joint motion for a resolution .
in the course of 13 project modifications , environmental impact assessment has been simply disregarded .
during the last bilateral meetings between czech , austrian and german experts on 2 and 5 september this year , it was once again stated that temelin does not meet german safety standards and would not , therefore , receive an operating licence in germany .
the safety of europe 's citizens and , thus , confidence in the community should be a priority for us all .
although i signed the joint motion as instructed by my political group , i intend to vote against this resolution .
my group is supporting this motion for a resolution on temelin for reasons of principle , because we take the people 's concerns seriously and because many of us have , for a long time , been actively fighting against nuclear energy in the east and in the west .
mr president , i shall also be voting for this resolution , which i consider to be reasonable .
the responsibility for licensing nuclear installations lies with the czech nuclear regulatory authority .
the czech authorities have ensured that the operating licence for unit 1 of the temelin nuclear power plant will not be issued until all outstanding problems are solved to the satisfaction of the nuclear regulatory authority .
the commission expects this provision to be enforced by the czech authorities .
the answer is ' yes ' .
southern europe has been set alight more and more frequently over recent years .
in my country , greece , more than 500 fires broke out this year , most of which were dealt with minimal disruption .
they could use the interreg community initiative , for example .
mr president , indeed , like a chronic recurrent disease , the summer of 2000 will once again have suffered the ravages of fires raging through millions of hectares in our country and our continent and even causing the tragic death of a number of firemen and local residents .
mr president , this year , the fires in the mediterranean , and in greece in particular , broke all previous records .
mr president , portugal has also been affected by these tragic forest fires which have been the result either of natural causes or of criminal acts motivated by base economic interests .
we know that this matter is primarily the responsibility of the member states , which need to organise themselves and build up their own control and prevention resources .
it is also necessary , however , to back a european forest strategy with technical and financial resources in order to strengthen and complement national resources .
this will aim to improve the mutual assistance between member states .
the commission is also encouraging member states to reinforce their intervention capacities .
the national authorities should provide for the necessary financial resources to consolidate this action for the period 2000-06 .
thank you very much , mr morillon , we will pass on that request .
i would like to emphasise - and i am now speaking on behalf of my group also - that we consider the council declaration on this subject to be very important , and i request you to forward it to the conference of presidents .
situation in fiji following the coup d 'etat the next item is the commission statement on the situation in fiji following the coup d 'etat .
first and foremost , the use of violence by certain ethnic groupings to impose their rule on other communities is unacceptable .
secondly , a democratic government must be re-established .
the time-frame currently being proposed , two or three years , is far too long .
the international community and the donors of aid to fiji agree on these principles .
as far as the eu is concerned , the council has informed the fijians of its request to begin consultations under article 366 of the lome convention , which calls for a thorough examination of the situation on the basis of information to be supplied by the fijians .
but the fiji story is more complicated than that .
be that as it may , speight ' s undemocratic behaviour has plunged a whole country into a deep political and economic crisis .
i do hope that the commission will stick to its principles and will not succumb to political or economic pressure .
i had the opportunity last week , along with a number of colleagues from various parties and groups here , to meet with prime minister mahendra chaudhry who reported to us that violence against the indo-fijians is still continuing in fiji .
i welcome the fact that article 366 of the lome convention has been invoked .
the police and the military singularly failed to protect and defend the government .
alongside george speight and his gang , when the people 's coalition government were taken hostage on 19 may , were members of the armed forces ' counter-revolutionary warfare unit .
third , there should be a denial of all economic and military assistance to and through the present government .
what concerns me more than anything is that this conflict could spread to other islands with similar problems and similar tensions .
this is , in fact , the opposite of what we have in mind and to which reference has already been made : the establishment of a great pacific regional trade agreement between 14 nations .
if we are not careful , this will be the first major conflict in the pacific and this may well affect the situation in the region for a few decades to come .
the kotonu conventions provide for a partnership for development and peace , and the lome conventions also provide for procedures , especially article 366 , which has already been referred to .
we invite the commission to come back before the end of the year to report on the developments in fiji and the region as a whole and on the efforts which the european union has made .
the original fijian population has never had a say in the matter but has meanwhile been faced with the reality that the composition of the population has changed beyond recognition .
in these countries , there have often been harsh clashes between these peoples .
in south africa , this situation even led to an atrocious system of inequality and oppression , referred to as apartheid .
those who use racism to their advantage must be punished and at least be excluded from political power , the refugees must be able to return home , and violence must come to an end .
the multi-racial constitution of 1997 , which came about following a previous coup d ' etat after lengthy negotiations , must be restored without delay .
the australian government wants them banned .
it is a very useful exercise in analysing the extent of our principles and whether or not there are human activities that should be quite independent .
we are actively drawing into this debate the regional acp partners and giving the authorities in the country in question a say in the discussion .
it is not easy to find out what the right thing to do is but we are doing everything to mobilise pressure for a rapid , irreversible return to democracy .
we have partners in the acp group who are part of the process of convincing and putting pressure on fiji to do the right thing .
i prefer to have my partners in the south well on board in the process , also taking into consideration the risk of the negative spill-over in the region .
the debate is closed .
mr luttge became an mep in 1989 and was mainly involved in transport policy .
secondly , the european year of lifelong learning highlighted the commission 's difficulty in providing information and responses and being transparent .
i would like to draw attention to this situation , and i believe that we must rethink our attitude towards education , as we are talking about people and our future .
these are all achievements , but also signs of the time and of the society in which we live : the information age , the information society , the age of knowledge , technology and globalisation , to mention but a few designations .
in order to help these insights come to the fore throughout europe , 1996 was designated the european year of lifelong learning .
with relatively modest financial resources of ecu 8.4 million from the european union , a much welcomed ecu 34 million was raised for the project with the help of partner countries from the european economic area : liechtenstein , switzerland and norway .
this coincides with the ideas expressed a few months ago at the lisbon and feira european councils , when all the member states pledged to develop a series of measures at european union level so that , during this decade , the european union can become a leading society at international level and achieve the levels of competence that north america has today , particularly in technological areas .
finally , i therefore recommend that you pay particular attention to points 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 23 and 24 , which constitute a good guide for the achievement of these higher levels of education at european union level .
mr president , first of all , i should like to congratulate our rapporteur on her excellent work and also on the commendable way in which she cooperated in the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport .
this joiner is between 40 and 50 years of age , speaks four languages and is known as something of a philosopher .
my constituency has just come through a serious crisis in its educational assessment , partly due to a lack of proper consultation with classroom teachers .
it is obviously important to do that as well , but the bulk of people are elderly - elderly people who have to overcome decades of dictatorship but who are , today , able to make a fresh start .
i should also like to say that , in my view , elderly people in particular , who nowadays still have twenty or thirty productive years in front of them after they retire , must be able to play an increased part in our society .
training and education are being seen more and more clearly as european resources .
parliament , however , did its best to establish a legal basis in time for the measures to be effected .
i also noted , in the commission report , in your report , that the initiative engaged the interests of many schools , universities , businesses and associations , not only in the world of education , but also organisations involved in the economy , in combating social exclusion or concerned with rural life .
to a great extent , the commission services based this report on an external assessment conducted by a company which , by virtue of its network covering all the participant countries , seemed to me to be able to make an objective analysis of the way this year was perceived by operators in our various countries .
it was taken up by the g8 ministers who last year in cologne adopted a charter on the subject , inspired to a great extent by the debates which took place within the fifteen member states in the course of this european year of lifelong learning .
the commission will continue the debate on lifelong education and training with you , with this house , in that context .
i am entirely prepared to make room for the question of lifelong education and training and , in general , educational matters , in structural fund programmes .
the people in his party , the pds , are clearly determined not to learn anything new for the rest of their lives .
mr president , lifelong learning must be a responsibility not only of the european commission and the european institutions but also , and especially , of the member states .
mr president , the communist party of greece is in favour of a state lifelong learning system , since it will give workers the chance to improve their knowledge and professional skills as well as their contribution to society as a whole and their standard of living .
this fundamental fact has fuelled debates at the european council meetings in lisbon and feira .
they should also speedily implement action programmes and specific measures in the context of a lifelong education and training strategy .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday , 8 september 2000 .
thank you , mr tajani .
i would like to urge you , madam president and the bureau members - i understand this is coming on your agenda very soon - to think very carefully before taking this decision because constituency weeks are a very good idea .
there is a desperate need for meps to communicate with the electorate in a much more effective way .
the fact that we had such a poor turnout in the european elections proves that this is the case and , if we allow people to sign in during constituency weeks , we are undermining the whole point of them .
i wish to draw our fellow meps ' attention to a demonstration which is leaving brussels today for paris and to ask them to exercise the utmost vigilance where this is concerned .
they are weeks without meetings but they are weeks when the commission , the council and all other agents of this parliament , including the political groups , are hard at work .
consequently , we believe that those members - and there are many of them - who are writing reports , chairing committees , running groups and have legitimate reasons to be here should , on declaration of those objectives , be able to come and do their work in the place that they were elected to do it .
on 13 september , a homeless person was found dead .
thirdly , on 4 september , right-wing extremists beat up a person whose parents are of tunisian origin .
with regard to the joint discussion on racism , i must inform you that the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left has also tabled an oral question to the commission on right-wing extremist violence in germany .
if i am to believe the relevant committee in my own country , they amount to approximately thirty per year out of a total of almost four million crimes and offences , including a million committed by foreigners against native europeans .
i suggest that the two issues be examined concurrently .
in the course of tomorrow ' s debate , i should like us , on the basis of what many of our fellow meps have said today , to be able to agree upon at least one amendment , namely that , within the confines of this parliament , no mep may make racist remarks .
measures to be taken following the fuel crisis and the rise in oil prices the next item is the commission statement on the measures to be taken following the oil crisis and the increase in the price of oil .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i am grateful for the opportunity to speak to the whole house after having spoken yesterday for two hours with the energy committee .
recent times have been marked by the fact that oil prices have been rising for the last 18 months , and the european public is feeling the full effect .
clearly , the people who will suffer most as a result of this rise will be the least-favoured social groups and also certain specific sectors which are particularly affected .
at the beginning of 1999 , the price of a barrel of crude oil stood at around 10 dollars , whereas today it stands at around 33 to 35 dollars .
the reason for this rise is very clear : the restriction on production on the part of the opec countries which coincides with a world economic recovery and the resulting increase in demand .
the impact of this rise has been particularly great in the european union and especially in the euro zone , owing to the euro ' s value against the dollar .
we cannot ignore the consequences of this rise on europe ' s economic development .
we would all benefit from prices being established in a market of free competition and not , as is happening now , in accordance with a monopolistic situation in a market which to be honest is less than transparent .
furthermore , the european union ' s level of dependency currently stands at around 50 % .
however , unless we introduce new measures , we will reach more or less 70 % by 2020 .
in the specific case of oil , our dependency on external sources stands at between 85 % and 90 % .
this must clearly lead us to a debate on the increase in our energy dependency on external sources and , therefore , on our vulnerability in this respect .
that is why ensuring a sufficient level of independence and , above all , of availability in the european union ' s energy supplies , must be a priority policy and furthermore a policy on a community scale .
little more than a year ago , when i first came into contact with this house as future commissioner with responsibility for energy , i indicated very clearly that , from the commission ' s point of view , there were two crucial elements which needed to be considered in the coming years .
on the one hand , the need to strategically promote dialogue on energy policy in international fora , and especially with the large producing and consumer countries , and , on the other , the need to adapt our priorities so that we can better focus our changes in the face of adverse energy situations such as the current one .
the commission intends to fulfil these fundamental objectives and has been working on them for several months .
i hope it will serve as a starting point for a broad debate amongst the interested parties to examine the role and place of each of our energy sources over the next twenty or thirty years .
furthermore , we must promote international dialogue in the short term and step up this dialogue with the producing countries in order to convince them of our common interest in price stability - an issue which they themselves have raised - putting forward the objective of a price band .
at the same time , we have to take account of the geopolitical context in which we are moving , especially of the peace process in the middle east and the complex political situation in the whole area .
the european union must send a clear and forceful message to all the opec countries and highlight the need for appropriate measures to be taken in order to fulfil what they have indicated to be their objective , that is to say , for oil prices to return to a reasonable band .
we must say that we are the main net importer and the second largest consumer of oil in the world .
the european union therefore has the means and reasons justifying its voice to be heard but perhaps political means are not sufficient .
as for the fiscal aspect , an issue that has been much discussed in recent times , the commission understands the concerns of the professional sectors most affected by the sudden increase in oil prices .
in this respect we encourage the member states to enter into and maintain social dialogue with all the interested parties in order to find solutions which are suitable and conform to community law .
one of the lessons we can learn from the blockades which have paralysed economic activity in various states , is the need to raise the level of coordination between member states and , of course , with the support of the commission .
to this end , madam president , ladies and gentlemen , in a few minutes i will leave this meeting to depart for luxembourg , where a special council of transport ministers is taking place .
for both environmental and economic reasons , member states must not give in to pressure and change their overall medium-term policy on oil .
however , the very difficult situation we are in at the moment probably requires , in the short term , the adoption of aid measures by the competent public authorities .
the commission intends to continue the contacts established with member states in order to detect any practices which contravene competition rules .
any agreements between companies or abuses of dominant positions must be severely penalised .
it is probable that the barrel price , in normal economic circumstances , will not in the long term return to below 20 dollars - and , of course , in no event to what it was 18 months ago , that is to say , 10 dollars .
we must tackle this dependency and this situation through two fundamental fields of action : diversifying our sources and saving energy .
the management of demand and energy saving is the other area on which we must focus for the long term .
with regard to oil , we are today 50 % more efficient that 25 years ago , but it must be said that the transport sector still has to make a special effort in this area .
more than 90 % of the increase in oil consumption in the union from now until 2020 will be absorbed in principle by the transport sector .
measures must also be adopted for construction and savings in this sector , which is one of the fields that consumes most energy , not to mention the promotion of competition in the gas sector and the emergence of gas as a competitor and alternative to oil .
nothing would now be easier than calling on all member states of the union to substantially decrease taxation on oil products up until the price of a barrel of crude hopefully returns to the 22 - 25 us dollar mark , or thereabouts .
the member states now have to find a common approach in both the short and the long term .
measures taken separately by individual countries under pressure from the protests will only make the situation more problematic and will distort competition .
the responsibility for action clearly lies with national governments .
that is to say , we need a virtuous policy , but at the same time we are now facing a particularly complex situation in that there are a series of professions who are in a very difficult position and which , as forms of community-scale protests are developing in europe , has lead to blockades and disorder and disparate reactions from our governments .
i would like very briefly to point out that , in recent times , thanks to more rigorous budgetary management , there has been talk of lightening the tax burden .
we must be able to understand this reaction and , at the same time , we must explain to our citizens the reasons for our decisions .
above all , we must try to see to it that our governments react jointly and that , finally , we create a european energy policy that is in keeping with the common economic and social area .
there is a lack of internal coherence , both in the reactions to the protests - protests which i can often understand very well - and in defending the currency , as well as a lack of external coherence in our attitude to opec .
this is why i believe that a cut in the general tax burden , as proposed by my party in belgium , is to be preferred to a specific tax burden on fuel .
the end result would surely be that there would be more drug addicts than before and a greater crisis .
our group has today proposed an integrated programme such as this to serve as the european union ' s new energy policy programme .
we need to establish a genuine long-term partnership between these countries and ourselves .
and then , all the other root causes of the current situation need to be looked at : cases of speculation , the inadequate stocks in the united states and the fall in the value of the euro .
the second problem revealed , in my view , by this crisis is the lack of coherence between our strategy choices within the union .
the third fundamental problem illustrated spectacularly by this crisis is the extreme difficulty many european leaders have in making an accurate assessment of grass-root demands .
they have not seen , or have not wanted to see , the serious problems which this rise in fuel costs presented for people obliged to use their cars or dependent upon domestic fuel oil .
mr president , the excessive rise in the price of oil is not without its causes , but there is a risk that , because of its own large share of responsibility for these causes , europe will not take account of them .
you really would have thought you were back in 1973 after the first oil crisis .
many of these solutions are perfectly rational and obvious and , occasionally , ideological such as restrictions on vehicles or the eco-tax but , as you reminded us , none of these is a panacea that will in itself sort out the situation .
for , if this crisis affects people in their working lives , it also affects people in their private lives , especially in rural areas where the car is still too often the main means of transport and communication and the one to which people resort .
whether the price drops again in the short term is of no consequence because there will be a steady upward trend in the long term .
in other words , the price of oil will rise to between usd 40 and 60 in the future .
nevertheless , the price increases and the tax protests are timely , to remind us both about our dependence in europe on imported energy and about the difficulties we face in achieving environmental objectives such as co2 emission reduction .
mr president , the explosion in the prices of oil products illustrates the need to make the euro into a genuinely international currency .
the socialists are asking the commission to encourage european oil importers to sign contracts in euros .
according to the ecb , monetary policy cannot remedy this situation in the short term .
economic policy cannot offer a solution to the rise in oil prices either , and must , in addition , be subject to a rise in the cost of capital .
they get the same prices in the same market but their costs are different .
this is an intolerable state of affairs for the transport sector .
british conservatives still are but it is time to wake up .
we have two choices .
we must adopt alternative fuels - biodiesel , fuel cells , gas and electric cars .
let us put more money in the budget , change the decision on programmes like save and altener .
we do not need a new budget heading .
let us negotiate - but as the european union - because stability is in the interests not only of oil - importing countries but also of oil - exporting countries .
ten dollars per barrel of oil was far too low a price and , furthermore , it had negative effects on our economies , although this seems more complicated to explain .
on the other hand , 35 dollars is too high a price for us to bear .
much of our energy is destined for this specific sector in particular .
i would like us to try to communitise this , but , in the mean time , we must coordinate the energy policy of the member states .
it is also necessary to continue making progress on transport policies and we must avoid , as a result of a crisis such as this , suddenly changing our transport policy and energy policy which has been established over recent years .
we must not therefore use the method of lowering taxes as a solution to this circumstantial rise in oil prices .
perhaps , in a very limited way , some countries may resort to that method , above all because there may be an exception in the directive on hydrocarbons .
energy and transport policies are medium- and long-term policies , which cannot be modified under pressure from very specific circumstances , which i am sure are going to change within a year and a half or two years although , no doubt , we will not return to prices of 10 dollars per barrel .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
mr president , i have no doubt that in the age of new communications technologies , in the age of the internet , which is well under way at the beginning of this new century , we legislators are faced with a very exciting challenge : to protect people from intrusion and from attacks on their private life , their dignity or their reputation .
the protection of these rights is recognised in numerous legislative texts of a universal nature , such as the universal declaration of human rights , of a transnational nature , such as the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental liberties , or of a national nature , such as the constitutions of the member states , but the legislative diversity in this area requires that efforts be made in terms of the harmonisation and unification of criteria .
the council ' s proposal for a decision is correct but is , in my view , timid and does not go far enough .
in this delicate field of data protection we must achieve two fundamental objectives : transparency in the future functioning of the secretariat and the independence of its work .
i therefore believe that the final objective should be the establishment of a single body corresponding to a single legal framework within the european union and that that body be provided with its own budget and staff , even exceeding the normal distribution between pillars , taking advantage of the option provided for in article 42 of the treaty of the european union .
i therefore believe that this parliament must go further than the council ' s decision , which , as i have said , falls short on aspects such as the election and appointment of the secretariat , its dismissal or the guarantee of professional secrecy in its functioning .
ladies and gentlemen , we are legislating in a field which is fundamental to the future of our interpersonal , economic and commercial relations .
in order to combat this duplication of supervisory bodies , which leads to inefficiency , the portuguese have drawn up an initiative for a proposal with a view to the adoption of a council decision to create a single secretariat for the three joint data protection supervisory bodies .
in the current circumstances , it is generally accepted that this is a viable solution which would reduce the problems caused by the existence of three data protection supervisory bodies within the union .
the rapporteur recognises that it is not feasible to set up this single body in the european union in the short term , and refers in his report to establishing it in the medium term , under the third pillar .
it might have been wiser for the report to have set a fixed and reasonable deadline for this body to be established , which would give more force to the proposal put forward by the rapporteur and the european parliament .
mr president , rapporteur , i welcome any initiative that aims to improve data protection for the people of the european union .
fundamental human rights such as the right to freedom of movement , the right to asylum , or in many cases , even the simple right to human dignity , will be compromised , and these institutions will support and control this .
a new supervisory authority must be able to cover all the relevant registers , including the eurodac register which has a major role to play in the eu ' s asylum policy .
moreover , the sirene organisation established under the schengen agreement must be covered by a new supervisory authority .
the whole of the sirene organisation suffers from a palpable lack of public and parliamentary control .
public and parliamentary control must be reinforced , especially when it comes to sirene and schengen .
in matters of data protection we have to make the difficult compromise between the protection of privacy , the safety of our citizens , and the stability of the single market .
the level of data protection in today ' s bit streams is still not adequate in the european union .
the rapid growth in ecommerce in particular is posing new threats to the protection of data concerning our citizens .
the workload is increasing at a ferocious rate .
we must recognise that this is not an easy task , not only because of the sophistication of the technology , but also because it is particularly important for us to find a solution that strikes a balance between safeguarding citizens ' rights and freedoms on the one hand and on the other , having the instruments needed to ensure that the democratic rule of law is respected and that we can effectively fight transnational and organised crime .
this approach also involves - as various speakers have already pointed out - introducing , either under the europol convention or under new laws based on the schengen convention , clear and transparent principles of democratic and judicial supervision , which will guarantee the fundamental values on which a union governed by the rule of law must be based .
perhaps the most difficult issue that this report raises is the problem of deciding whether a separate budget heading should be created for the joint secretariat .
the idea that we are therefore advocating , even if this issue can potentially only be resolved in the long term , is to create a separate budget heading .
so in practical terms the commission understands the council ' s desire to use existing financial structures , but only as a provisional measure .
to conclude , i am delighted that this report and its underlying principles have received such widespread support in the european parliament .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
the object of the exercise was simply to deal with articles 22 and 23 .
firstly , the council ' s move is contrary to article 202 of the ec treaty , which establishes the principle that the implementation of the rules which the council lays down shall be conferred on the commission .
this is particularly important in this case .
for these two highly convincing reasons , we are in favour of the proposal submitted by the commission and commissioner vitorino , to the effect that implementing powers should be bestowed on the commission , and i would urge you all to attend tomorrow ' s vote .
the dublin convention in itself has always been important but it is the flaws in the dublin convention and our failure to administer the dublin convention properly , which has caused issues to arise which could even threaten the human rights of some of the applicants and individuals concerned .
all the countries that are signatories to the united nations convention of 1951 are well aware of the criteria for determining whether someone should be granted the extremely valuable and significant status of a refugee and i hope that nothing we ever do here would affect the right to make an application within those criteria .
last time it expressed its opinion on the proposal as a whole and i believe that the position parliament adopted was very close to what the socialist group wanted .
i wish to defend parliament ' s position , which this house voted for a few months ago in relation to the eurodac agreement .
i therefore believe that we are now being consulted on an amendment which the council is introducing in this communication , and that it affects the allocation of competences for this action by the council .
the treaty established that the commission must have responsibility for implementation - for eurodac also , we believe - and also established that parliament can supervise what the commission does .
for this reason , my group is tomorrow going to abstain in the vote on all the amendments which do not relate to this change to the council ' s communication .
we are going to abstain on those amendments which we feel have already been approved by parliament and which are already included in this parliament ' s previous report .
i hope that it does so taking account of parliament ' s decision and it is important that tomorrow ' s vote shows parliament ' s strong support for the previous proposal .
and when - rather than if - we achieve codecision in this area , this will enable parliament to require the commission to re-examine the measures if the implementing measures are exceeded .
my group supported these amendments when the focus was on the substance but at this stage it is better to concentrate on the issue of whether the commission or council has implementing powers so that we in parliament state loudly and in unison that our interests lie in backing the commission .
last november , the majority of the european parliament adopted a report on the creation of the eurodac system .
following this vote , the council modified its proposal for a regulation , stating that the eurodac system for comparing fingerprints should be established and administered by the council rather than the commission .
this important change is the reason why this report is being re-examined by this chamber .
however , the new proposal being examined today has not taken any account whatsoever of the amendments parliament has voted in favour of .
whether it be about specifying 18 years as the minimum age at which an applicant for asylum can be registered on the eurodac database , about erasing personal data once legally recognised status has been acquired or about substituting the expression ' third-country national ' for ' alien ' , the council has not seen fit to take account of parliament ' s opinion and has been supported in this by the commission , which has also declined to take account of it .
this means voting on the text adopted by the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , which includes the amendments relating to the lower age limit of 18 years , the erasing of personal data in the case of any applicant who has achieved legal status and the use of the expression ' third-country national ' rather than ' alien ' .
once the applicant concerned has obtained legal status , there is in fact no justification for retaining the personal data and fingerprints of someone whose situation has been regularised in law .
it is not solely in the future charter that the protection of fundamental rights , close to our hearts as it is , becomes an issue , but also in every european text , where we must be vigilant in their defence .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i am not going to speak about the issues underlying the proposal for a regulation , which have been so thoroughly studied and discussed in committee and in this chamber , a process that culminated in the vote on parliament ' s opinion last november .
we are unhappy with this , firstly because parliament , as has already been pointed out , is seeing its rights diminished , specifically its right to remain informed .
in fact , the commission is , in general terms , obliged , under the terms of article 7 of the decision on comitology , to keep parliament informed of committee proceedings and whenever the commission transmits relevant measures or proposals to the council .
secondly , there is a lack of legal coherence and above all a lack of legal justification in these transfers of competence .
article 1 of the decision on comitology has not been respected and therefore this course of action breaches article 202 of the treaty , since this article contains no provisions that would justify this procedure being adopted in this specific case .
mr president , i am grateful to commissioner vitorino for his work .
i speak for some members on this side of the house in saying that there are concerns about this report .
what is under discussion today is merely a new consultation on the specific issue of comitology .
therefore , on the only issue which is still under discussion - comitology - the commission wishes to remind parliament of the position it adopted towards the council : we disagree with the council ' s decision to reserve to itself the power to lay down most of the implementing rules here .
this factor was crucial in the commitments that the commission made to you , the european parliament , with regard to our reasons for being prepared to participate in a eurodac system .
lastly , i should like once more to make it clear to parliament that we have not used these doubts or this quarrel about interpretation in relation to eurodac as an excuse for inaction : the commission has already submitted a working paper on revising the dublin convention , which it has in fact sent to the european parliament .
i am particularly pleased to be able to tell you that the commission has today given substance to a key aspect of the tampere mandate on asylum by approving a proposal for a directive on minimum rules for a common procedure for requests for asylum .
once again , i would like to thank you - even the honourable members who have criticised the commission - for the support expressed by various political groups for the commission to manage and implement the eurodac system .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
it is very interesting when you look at the statistics because the exact reasons become clear .
many of these accidents - many of which can be avoided - come about because of the poor use of scaffolding or ladders .
figures published recently by the european agency for health and safety in bilbao suggest enormous variations between member states in the incidence of falls from heights .
the current cost , both in personal terms and those of the workers and families affected and in terms of economic costs to industry and the social and health protection systems , warrants legislation in this area .
this is an amendment to an existing directive on the general minimum requirements for work equipment at work .
the directive finally adopted covered only two specific types of work equipment : mobile equipment and equipment for lifting loads which are very important areas in their own right .
this directive will rectify this serious omission .
also it is important to stress as some seem mildly confused about this , that this proposal is based on article 138 , previously article 118a , which laid down the minimum requirements for ensuring a better level of protection for workers health and safety .
what it does is provide for safe use of ladders and other equipment .
i wonder whether they would accept that there are many people who know exactly what this legislation can bring about .
finally , concerning the amendments tabled , which i have only just seen today , i welcome amendments nos 22 and 25 : amendment no 22 as a second choice if amendment no 5 falls and amendment no 25 as a recital as it hits the tone of my report very well .
inform us of any situation of risk .
unfortunately , every day we hear news of accidents at work .
or perhaps it may fall to the worker , because they ignore the risks , or because of a lack of caution , or because adequate measures or precautions have not been taken , mainly in activities such as construction , in which the temporary nature of works and of the sector itself - a bridging sector , between primary activity , mainly agricultural , and the industrial and service sectors - require even more precautionary measures .
health and safety at work , especially where the risk is very high , is the responsibility of society and of all the sectors concerned , and the whole of society must assume its fair share of responsibility and commitment .
in this way , european citizens will see europe as being closer to them , a europe that addresses their problems , concerns and interests .
the risk assessment has been carried out at a snail ' s pace in the european union , and this second revision is a positive sign that we really want to support and encourage .
although fatal accidents have decreased by 13 % , which is to some extent linked to community action between 1994 and 1996 , there were still 5 549 deaths in 1996 .
it is estimated that the damage caused to the european economy in that year was around 146 million working days lost .
it is particularly relevant to the debate on the directive that i mentioned earlier that , although the construction industry does not have the highest number of accidents , it does have the greatest number of fatal accidents , comparable only with the road haulage sector .
since the famous survey conducted in 1907 in the united states , when identification , compulsory registration , cause of death , the employer ' s age , the worker ' s age , name , circumstances and the accident itself were studied to establish costs and duties enabling workers to be better protected ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , as a number of speakers have already mentioned , falls from heights are among the most serious categories of industrial accident and , by means of this report which is a stage in the elaboration of the directive on minimum safety and health requirements for the use of work equipment , we are setting to work on doing something about the problem .
i believe that the work begun with the european agency for health and safety in bilbao will make a positive contribution to a reduction in the accident figures as we find the answers to these questions and use them constructively .
mobile scaffolds must be prevented from moving about , but this cannot always be legislated for sufficiently .
mr president , i think it outrageous that the problem of accidents due to falls at work can give rise to some much opposition and cannot be sorted out more quickly .
as the rapporteur is careful to point out , however , building firms are opposed to regulation of any kind and , as a result , the report carefully avoids implicating them .
mr president , we support and value mr skinner ' s work , although we do feel that , given the premises and , above all , the implications of the issue , he could have been a little more incisive , in view , moreover , of the fact that eleven years have passed since the first directive on the subject was produced and of the shortcomings of its amending directive which entered into force five years ago .
in effect , occupational accidents continue to be the scourge of the world of employment in all the countries of the european union , although there is a higher incidence in certain sectors .
safety measures are not the only things that cost .
preventive action is also better , cheaper and more humane than a social policy that deals with the consequences .
it cannot be the answer to deal with social policy at a purely regional , or even provincial , level .
mr president , as the rapporteur ' s fine report points out , the figures recently published by the european agency for health and safety at work , whose headquarters are in bilbao , indicate very differing results in relation to work accidents between the various member states , owing to the fact that the states are not applying uniform statistical criteria .
the commission has proposed an amended directive on health and safety at work .
it is not a question of whether or not the recommendations in the report are sound .
or we can answer that the eu , through the commission and parliament , is about deciding whether or not it should be legal for one person to stand at the bottom of a ladder holding on to it while another person climbs up it .
i am very grateful to be able to follow my colleague , philip bushill-matthews , because i share many of the concerns he has expressed .
there can be no reason why member states , acting in a uniform way , would necessarily be able to tackle this problem more effectively than individual member states and , above all , there can be no reason for taking such a close interest in ordinary aspects of people ' s working lives .
a common and uniform and centralised standard on how you climb a ladder is not necessary and it is an undesirable interference with the way people run their work environment .
i believe that it is not necessary to conduct a risk assessment every time it is proposed to use a ladder .
as anyone working in the home can tell you , ladders are used very commonly and very frequently and , yes , there are accidents but i do not believe this kind of directive will ever eliminate those accidents .
it is a very important issue and survey after survey , including those in eurobarometer , and surveys of smes including by the last british government have shown that smes themselves recognise the importance of good health and safety legislation .
it really is absolutely deplorable and we should all - right across the political spectrum - make it clear that we will not tolerate that sort of behaviour from that minority .
mr president , first of all i would like to say that my delegation intends to back the skinner report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending for the second time the directive concerning minimum health and safety requirements .
i certainly cannot see why mature adults should be dictated to on how they should climb ladders , or get down them , or why a risk assessment should have to be completed before a ladder is used ; or why there should be an instruction to the effect that , two people should not climb a ladder at the same time , if at all possible , or even one stating that time spent up a ladder should not exceed half an hour , or - a peculiar refinement - 25 % of total working hours .
the skinner report will go down in parliamentary lore as ' the ladder report ' , and the people of the european union will justifiably ask themselves whether we do not have anything better to do than produce legislation on things they take for granted , which should in fact be a matter for in-house experts and have no place either in an eu directive or an associated report produced by the codecision-making parliament !
we need more europe where internal and external security is concerned , more europe when it comes to looking after our interests in the global competition , in currency policy and in the completion of the single market .
let us make it clear that no one in this parliament wants anything other than that the number of accidents , especially fatal accidents , should fall in all workplaces around our splendid continent and in our member states .
what is it , then , which leads us to believe that it is at the level of the european parliament , representing countries with more than 15 national parliaments , that the right forum for decision-making is to be found ?
using the enterprises ' language , i should like to say that this directive is based not only on social solidarity and social justice , but on competition issues as well .
it aims to prevent falls from heights by setting minimum requirements for the use of the relevant work equipment such as ladders and scaffolding .
falls from heights account for more than 10 % of occupational accidents and one in ten of such falls results in permanent invalidity or death .
on your amendments and the ideas behind the amendments , we are happy to accept amendments nos 2 , 3 , 4 , 9 , 11 , 15 , 20 and 22 as they stand .
on the text of amendments nos 10 , 13 , 14 , 18 , the commission agrees with the principles behind the changes proposed and can agree with most of the texts put forward .
however , we do propose a few changes or additions , mainly to be sure that we take account of all possible situations and do not create any unintended holes in the safety net we intend to provide with this initiative .
we agree with the main idea behind amendment no 18 and the references to the securing of the decks and the prevention of unintentional movement .
finally , we cannot accept amendments nos 1 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 21 , 23 , 24 , 25 and 26 .
this is not a question of a political disagreement but simply that amendments nos 6 and 7 change accepted standard texts while the other amendments repeat what is stated elsewhere .
we must endeavour to keep community legislation as straightforward as possible and avoid any inconsistencies in the overall framework .
in the same way , the definition of " collective fall protection safeguards " given in amendment no 8 is not necessary .
these safeguards have already been mentioned in the basic directive and there is no risk of confusion .
amendment no 5 is covered by amendment no 22 , which is accepted as it stands .
amendment no 6 covers training , which is already incorporated in recital 7 , and research , which is beyond the scope of this directive .
furthermore , recital 7 uses a standard form of words .
there are thus several reasons for not accepting amendment no 6 .
amendment no 7 advocates a change in article 2 ( 3 ) .
amendment no 23 cannot be supported by the commission as the issue of health and safety committees in enterprises has been appropriately addressed in the framework directive and according to it , detailed regulation is a matter of subsidiarity for all member states .
amendments nos 24 and 25 must be rejected because training is already adequately covered , especially following amendments nos 16 , 19 and 22 .
the basis is article 138 , which was previously article 118a - and if i am right , we must look into the costs - administrative and otherwise - for small-to-medium-sized businesses , as laid down in the treaty already .
if only mr bushill-matthews had been here when i first started , he would have heard some of the arguments which i wish to place before this house as to why it is important to have eu legislation .
the debate is closed .
we are awaiting the outcome of the commissioner ' s review of over 100 responses to his white paper on the reform of restrictive trade practices and the abuse of market power .
competition is not an end in itself , as far as we are concerned , it is a means of achieving growth and employment , and if , like the commissioner and ourselves , you champion a functioning single market organised along the lines of the social market economy , you do not favour unlimited competition , but competition governed by the necessary principles of political organisation , keeping in mind that we have a responsibility towards the future and our fellow human beings .
the rapporteur touched on some of them , and i would like to explore them again .
i therefore ask myself whether treating horizontal restraints and vertical restraints differently will really lead to greater legal certainty , or whether it would not be better for both , to have a block exemption regulation .
i have said in other interventions that , in my opinion , it is not only necessary but also takes us in the right direction .
having been in force for 40 years , community competition law had begun to show signs of exhaustion .
there is no doubt whatsoever that the competition rules included in the treaty , and in the law derived from it , have contributed significantly to the growth of a culture of competition , and have been fundamental to the creation of the single market .
the european legal tradition , especially the continental tradition , concentrated more on aspects relating to unfair competition ; the free competition elements were imported from the united states .
it is no longer possible to apply competition rules which do not take account of the economic analysis and a consideration of the market ' s power .
in the field of vertical restrictions , the new regulations on exemption by category and the guidelines for their application have been approved .
in this area , the commission is now presenting us with two proposals for regulations , one on research and development agreements , and the other on the regulation of specialisation agreements , accompanied by guidelines .
with regard to horizontal restrictions , however , there are guidelines which are , to a large extent , broader than the two specific aspects regulated by the two proposals for regulations .
the group of the party of european socialists has presented parliament with five amendments which express some of our concerns .
i would therefore ask you to vote in favour of these amendments .
finally , ladies and gentlemen , as a result of the reform , the commission will be able to focus on tackling the conduct of those who hold power in the market , because it is that conduct which is genuinely anti-competitive and damaging to the market .
on the one hand , the commission has drawn up a revised version of the block exemption regulations on research and development and specialisation agreements , and , on the other hand , it has prepared draft guidelines on the applicability of article 81 to horizontal cooperation agreements .
in this way , it is the commission ' s intention to codify the relevant case law and working practice as they have developed on the basis the evaluation of individual cases over all these years , without making any major changes to the criteria for evaluating horizontal cooperation agreements on the basis of community law .
however , in the absence of basic restrictions , it is necessary for the agreements to be examined in their economic context , so that it can be ascertained whether they would have a negative effect on the market .
consumers will benefit from these economic advantages , but only if effective competition is maintained on the market .
the line taken is similar to that recently adopted on vertical agreements , and primarily responds to two objectives : preventing the directorate-general for competition having to examine cases which have no bearing on competition policy , and enabling the businesses themselves to establish whether or not an agreement would restrict competition and whether it would be eligible for an exemption .
however , a compromise does need to be reached between the businesses ' interests in exploiting the results of their own research and the public interest , in guaranteeing competition on the new markets .
i do not have the time to comment on all of them , but i would just like to make a couple of observations .
mr theonas , you raised the question of mergers .
we have already done so for distribution - vertical agreements - and we are now doing it for horizontal agreements .
our block exemption regulations and notices will give companies more certainty on the contents of our rules and in self-assessing their agreements in the spirit of an overall modernisation effort .
the debate is closed .
that is important in our own countries , but we still have a long way to go throughout the european union .
it is also important , of course , in the developing countries , especially in connection with the development cooperation initiated by the european union .
we have achieved what we were aiming for in a number of important areas .
we have gone from eur 50 million to eur 93 million .
secondly , the degree to which the member states were to be involved in the implementation itself was a major issue .
mr president , this draft regulation is one of the first regulations in the sphere of development policy to be adopted by means of the codecision procedure .
many people felt that this regulation should be passed as quickly as possible , which has meant parliament having to distance itself from many of its proposed amendments .
mr president , eight years after the rio conference , where the countries of the united nations acknowledged that development and the environment were inextricably linked , the european union is finally adopting regulations to ensure that the environment is integrated into the development projects of developing countries .
although we have cause to congratulate ourselves on the financial contribution agreed in the course of the conciliation - and i should like to thank the rapporteur on behalf of my group - the budget in question is still modest , given the considerable needs and still greater expectations of the populations concerned .
are we not merely salving our consciences by granting just a little more than eur 15 million over a period of six years to developing countries in africa , the caribbean and south america when we are aware of the social , economic and ecological conditions in these underprivileged lands ?
this budget line , designed to promote the full integration of the environmental dimension in the development process , will be of no significance whatsoever if the environmental dimension is neglected in the case of other projects .
the commission supports the proposed regulation currently before you .
fortunately , our activities in the field of environment and development are not limited to actions funded under this regulation .
hence , we intend to use it in a strategic fashion focusing , in particular , on support for the various international environmental conventions .
however , time will be against us since we are fast approaching the end of the financial year .
once more , i wish to thank parliament for their work in ensuring the passage of this regulation and the interest that many members have shown .
i am confident that the regulation will provide us with a useful tool for ensuring that the environmental dimension is fully taken into account in our development cooperation .
sustainable management of forests in developing countries the next item is the report ( a5-0216 / 2000 ) by mr fernandez martin , on behalf of the parliamentary delegation to the conciliation committee , on a joint text , approved by the conciliation committee , for a european parliament and council regulation on measures designed to promote the conservation and sustainable management of forests in developing countries [ c5 0284 / 2000 - 1999 / 0015 ( cos ) ] .
it has taken the procedure a long time to come to an end , since we have spent almost three years on the first and second readings and on the debate in conciliation .
the tropical forests and their various functions and usefulness to humanity can contribute to a large extent to the achievement of the union ' s aims , not only in terms of development and the environment , but also with regard to its objectives of fighting poverty and sustainable economic and social development .
with the regulation , the european union provides appropriate financial and technical aid with a view to promoting conservation and the sustainable management of tropical forests and other types of forest in developing countries , so that the forests may play their role as generators of wealth and social development with the sustainable environmental criteria which is expected of them at local , national and international levels .
to this end , it is necessary to improve coordination and the flow of information between commission projects - those that the commission will present in the coming years - and those of the member states , in order to achieve more coherent actions and therefore a more efficient use of resources .
in terms of the budget , we should be pleased that , after the restrictions which , in general , have resulted from the plans for reconstruction in kosovo , we now have a contribution of eur 249 million , having started with an initial council proposal of eur 9 million , for a period of 6 years , from now until 2006 .
nevertheless , in the field of commitology the differing positions of parliament , especially the committee on development and cooperation , and the council are well known .
our position is more inclined towards giving greater competences to the commission in this area .
the active participation of the local communities and those who are directly affected , in the development of the national forestry policy and development planning , is now one of the objectives of the regulation , and this represents a major step forwards in terms of content , to my mind .
the council ' s proposal earmarked a ridiculously low sum of eur 63 million for the period between 2000 and 2006 .
parliament demanded eur 249 million for the same period and achieved it , making the point very clearly in so doing that it is unacceptable as far as we are concerned to play the reconstruction in the balkans - as important as it is - off against eu development policy and development cooperation .
together with article 11 of this regulation , which lays down an annual reporting obligation in respect of financed projects and measures , this provides us with the basic tools we will need to draw attention , in good time , to disturbing trends .
now , this rich biodiversity - which , moreover , is not confined to plant species - has a financial consequence which is in itself truly impressive .
i congratulate mr fernandez martin and the other members of the conciliation delegation for their efforts to achieve a satisfactory conclusion on the tropical forests regulation .
as with the environment budget heading we intend to use the tropical forests budget heading strategically and in coordination with actions funded under the other instruments at the disposal of the commission .
once more , i offer my congratulations to parliament for this successful conclusion and i also wish to express my appreciation for the input it has made during the first and second readings of the regulation .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the increase in poverty , despite the gradual growth of world gdp over recent decades , the current tendency of member states to reduce the funds intended for official aid to development in favour of direct investment , of which only 1 % goes to the least-developed countries - which increases the gulf which separates those countries from the rich or developing countries - and the conviction that the globalisation process may increase the difficulties of the poor countries , are all factors which demonstrate the urgent need to improve the effectiveness of policies on development cooperation .
in this context , it is essential to strengthen the complementarity of policies on development cooperation implemented by the community and the member states .
firstly , because complementarity enables us to take advantage of the synergy resulting from a coordinated approach in the actions to be implemented , not only by the european union but also by all the international donors , which will improve the impact of those actions .
thirdly , because it would improve the visibility of the european union and make its development policy more credible , which will allow it to exert the political influence it deserves as the main provider of funds - let us remember that between half and two thirds of development aid comes from the european union - and both the ngos and the recipient countries would like this influence to be greater given that nobody is more sensitive than the european union in the field of social justice and human development .
lastly , improving complementarity is important because the treaty on european union clearly establishes that the member states and the community must coordinate their policies on development cooperation and harmonise their aid programmes .
that is why we must take a positive view of the commission ' s presentation of the communication on the complementarity of community and member states ' policies on development cooperation , since the measures it proposes may contribute to removing the obstacles which hinder significant advances in this area .
therefore , i believe that , in order to really improve the impact of european development policies and safeguard the credibility of the union , it would have been much more appropriate and would have made things much clearer if these aspects had been tackled jointly within the framework of the communication on development policy , since that would have better highlighted the essential and inseparable nature of these elements in relation to the formulation of a development policy in accordance with the union ' s objectives .
my second point relates to the very concept of complementarity , which must not be viewed as a protective principle for preserving the competences of the member states in this field , but as a manifestation of a political will to unite our efforts to improve and contribute more effectively to implementing the objectives of our policies on development cooperation .
the commission should therefore take the initiative and make a qualitative leap in that direction in order to allow the european union to establish its strategic priorities in the field of development aid .
for that , the political will of the council must , as a precondition , make progress towards greater integration in the field of cooperation , because what has hindered the progress of complementarity has been above all the fact that the member states define their development cooperation policies more in accordance with their geo-strategic economic interests and their colonial pasts than with the objectives of the union in relation to development .
in any event , and to sum up , i would like to reiterate the timeliness of this communication - even though we would have liked it to have been part of a global package - and say how fitting the measures are and that , together with the measures also proposed by the committee on development and cooperation in my report , we hope that they will help to guide our action , providing better operational management .
i would similarly like to say how satisfied i am that the importance of the work of ngos , which work independently of governments , is being acknowledged and taken into account in development cooperation with the express purpose of strengthening civil society as a result of such cooperation .
at eu level , we must also see to it that our values are reflected in our policy on development cooperation .
thus , we cannot aid countries that show no interest in their citizens ' human rights or democracy .
at eu level we must really be aware of the political effects of aid , as we already know from experience that aid can be damaging .
in fact the risk is considerable .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , before this debate we would have liked to ask the council a question on the policy of complementarity .
as well as being a requirement of the treaty , complementarity between community aid policy and that of the member states , is an invaluable instrument for helping the union and the member states to progress along a common path in the field of aid .
complementarity is currently expressed in operational coordination on the ground and in the commitology procedure in brussels .
some of the programmes approved by this committee , such as the regional programme for the reconstruction of central america in relation to hurricane mitch , are still to be implemented .
there is a clear lack of political will to implement the measures which we decide on in parliament , and that leads to inefficiency in the achievement of our political objectives , to a gradual paralysis of the functioning of the european institutions and to a bad image which , as the previous speaker said , is sometimes projected to the public .
complementarity with the member states , coherence between community policies and coordination between departments must form the basis of development aid policy if this policy is to fulfil this parliament ' s minimum requirements in terms of efficiency .
there are problems with the diversity of instruments and the duplication of procedures , but the real problem is the lack of political will .
as has been said before , the states must overcome their individual tendencies - which often reflect their concerns about former colonial relationships or other factors - and commit themselves to a common european project .
the commission now has the opportunity to include these elements in its reform and the council has the historic responsibility to involve itself in the definition and implementation of community policies .
both institutions can rely on the strong support of the socialist group in parliament in relation to development aid policy .
the policy of complementarity between national and community policies has a total of 16 players ( 15 + 1 ) .
the lack of efficient community development cooperation therefore serve the member states as an excellent alibi for not having to attain complementarity , and certainly not coordination and cohesion .
this , in my opinion , is a sine qua non .
we do not want to be an extension of the bretton woods institutions .
the reason why the council and member states suffer from a lack of ' political will ' , as highlighted by the rapporteur and commission , can therefore be found in this fundamental difference in approach to development cooperation .
long-term programmes , on the other hand , fare better within bilateral , often historical relations between developing countries and member states .
the european union could , however , help coordinate member state aid and intervene if the member states fail to take any action .
the problem i am referring to is the notable lack of harmony and coordination in development cooperation action and policy between the european union and its member states , on the one hand , and between some of the member states themselves , on the other .
what has been described and condemned by many authoritative voices and , in particular , by organisations that work in this area - and also by our own parliament - is that over the years the different member states have been acting independently in the field of cooperation , often according to individual national views and interests , sometimes honourable and sometimes less so , but in any event without any significant effort to be coherent and fairly distribute roles , not even in terms of providing mutual information and even less in terms of coordination .
furthermore , until very recently , the required effort has not been made to reasonably coordinate community policy in this field with the policies that at the same time were being carried out by the 15 member states , although this is certainly not exclusive to the area which we are dealing with .
it was truly regrettable to see how community actions were being implemented , sometimes without even an awareness of what each of the member states was doing in relation to the relevant countries or sectors .
this is not the first time we have discussed this issue in parliament , of course .
nevertheless , by taking account of a situation which is particularly pressing , but also particularly favourable , we are taking an important step forward and we are doing so at a time when both the commission and the council seem convinced that we have to adopt specific measures in order to leave behind the previous situation and produce the coherence which will enable the resources which europe intends for development cooperation to be more substantial , in both qualitative and quantitative terms .
furthermore , in this way , we will achieve for europe a much more decisive role in the challenge , which is of such concern to us , of creating a fairer , more balanced and therefore more stable world .
complementarity , coherence and coordination are the notorious three c ' s at the centre of the debate on european development cooperation .
since then , a further eur 9.65 million have been made available as emergency aid , and eur 21 million are to be provided in addition , to deal with the consequences in the medium-term .
the european union and its member states have provided a total of eur 85 million in aid , whereas the un contribution brought the overall international package to only eur 115 million , including the european funds .
the political leaders and the civil society of the partner states must have their decision-making powers strengthened , as must the eu delegation posts in situ , which is already happening with the elaboration of national indicative programmes within the scope of acp cooperation .
we need to redouble our efforts , in order , not only to further coordination between the eu and the member states in this sphere , but also with the international bodies .
i therefore welcome mrs ferrer ' s report .
we need to increase internal eu coordination , country by country and sector by sector , following the 1998 guidelines on operational coordination .
we should help partner countries in their efforts and reinforce the role of eu coordination as regards wider global coordination between donors , whether they be the world bank , united nations organisations or bilateral governmental or non-governmental organisations .
the commission has already taken the first step .
the country strategy papers will guide us when reviewing our assistance programmes .
these country strategy papers are the first practical tool , not only for improved donor coordination and complementarity , but also for overall coherence of development cooperation policy with other eu policies .
the country strategy papers should also steer us in the right direction for achieving an optimum division of labour between the commission and member states .
however , if we are to succeed in this , our member states must join forces and participate in this exercise .
the quantitative aspect of how much each and every member state is mobilising and putting into this effort is also part of our collective success or collective failure .
firstly , i note that at several points in the resolution , the issue of complementarity is placed within a broader framework connected with a need for greater consistency between the various policies of the eu .
on coherence - which we have often discussed - we have now established the coherence focal point in the directorate general for development .
next may we are organising a conference with unctad , in this chamber , on the least developed countries and we are also organising a conference with who and unaids on 28 september concerning malaria , hiv-aids and tuberculosis , the three major communicable diseases .
thirdly , specifically relating to the recommendations of the motion for a resolution , i welcome your support especially on two essential issues : firstly , human resources and , secondly , the role of management committees in development cooperation .
the lack of human resources is a serious and real problem that for too long has been ignored .
as regards the member state committees that work in parallel with the commission in the management and implementation of the development programmes , we believe that their key role should be to discuss political priorities and overall strategy with us .
the support of parliament is also vital .
in any case , member states warmly welcomed the overall policy statement which is the basis for what we do .
in conclusion , i should like to thank the rapporteur again for her excellent work .
this is a very useful report and i am determined to move forward on complementarity and will use the new tools available : the country strategy papers , the new and improved programming systems and a more effective management of external assistance , which also includes greater responsibility for our delegations in third countries .
i am confident that the european parliament will provide us with the necessary support in these endeavours .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
annex 1 of the treaty defines the list of products eligible for a com under the cap .
non-annex 1 products are those that have been processed a second time .
for these products , additional access to agricultural product refunds at least constitutes a partial , quick fix solution which , in the absence of alternative proposals , makes it possible immediately to guarantee the competitiveness of non-annex 1 products .
that said , agricultural product refunds present a range of risks and disadvantages .
this implies that , despite the extension proposed to us , the agricultural product refunds ought definitely not to become a structural tool but ought to remain a residual scheme and a last resort solution , to be implemented only when there is a real shortage of refunds .
we believe that any extension to the agricultural product refunds should be subject to very strict supervision and follow-up .
in that way , we shall have a tool of superintendence and control with which to ensure that agricultural product refunds are of limited availability , that the amounts concerned are no more than are really needed , that they do not have an adverse effect upon our own producers of raw materials and that they are not concentrated upon a limited number of coms at the risk of destabilising these .
the latter ought to be given easier access to these refunds , which remain more straightforward to administer , and , in this context , they ought to be exempted from presentation of certificates up to an adjustable ceiling of eur 50 000 per year .
in the longer term , however , there will only be a lasting solution to the issue we are to deal with today as a matter of urgency if , when the wto agreements next come up for renewal , community negotiators receive clear instructions to the effect that adequate account must be taken of the interests of our non-annex 1 products and that the close links forged by our processing industries with our producers of agricultural raw materials and their countries must be maintained and consolidated .
mr president , the commission ' s plans to slash export refunds will cost the eu ' s food and drink processors an estimated eur 145 million per year .
other sectors , such as pasta , confectionery and some dairy products that also receive export refunds , have escaped relatively unscathed .
those food and drink exporters who through adding value to their products , constitute a vitally important part of the eu agricultural economy must receive alternative compensation exactly equivalent to the value of the export refunds they have lost .
export refunds are essential to ensure the international competitiveness of non-annex - i processed food .
in addition , the food and drink processors in the eu purchase around two-thirds of all their agricultural produce within the 15 member states .
this deliberate attack on non-annex - i export refunds further undermines our farmers who are suffering their worst recession in decades .
however , these cuts should not be targeted in such an arbitrary manner on a small number of industries , as the commission has chosen to do .
there is no doubt that the whole system now needs to be dismantled and rebuilt in a much more sensible and less complex manner , in line with our wto and gatt requirements .
this is a very delicate area and , furthermore , the system of inward processing , in its application , is extremely complex and slow and therefore harms numerous small- and medium-sized businesses .
in this delicate area , our decisions , as politicians , should be directed towards maintaining the competitiveness of the european food industry in the world and towards strengthening the close links between the processing industry and the producers of raw materials .
the greatest responsibility in this area falls to the commission .
he has been correct , specifically in his proposals to limit and rationalise the use of the system of inward processing by adapting it to the situation of the markets , the regulatory framework and the budgetary framework .
many thanks , therefore , to the rapporteur and the european parliament , and i hope that the commission will improve its work in this area .
it may be necessary to act in this way , but certain principles have to be adhered to in this issue .
for that reason , the wording of amendment no 8 is justified .
then they have a brainwave to the effect that industry will no longer buy agricultural raw materials on the eu market but on the world market instead , which the eu , for its part , will export its raw materials onto , and in dumping its goods will also be partly responsible for world market prices .
but what we in fact need to discuss , is whether the sale prices on the world market call for a price discussion , because no one in the world can produce goods in an environmentally and socially responsible manner under these conditions .
that is why , despite the fact that we agree with many of the rapporteur ' s findings , we disagree with his conclusion on the opening of inward processing arrangements , even on a provisional basis , precisely because we believe that , under present circumstances , provisional measures will turn into permanent measures and will exacerbate the situation .
mr president , according to this regulation , the commission is stuck with a limited budget , and this is due to a complex of three reasons : firstly , the guaranteed prices for agricultural products of european origin ; secondly , export refunds to companies which sell these agricultural raw materials in processed form on the world market ; and thirdly , the agreements within the wto .
in the case of shortages of raw materials on the internal european market , the food industry can import these from the world market without any import duty and under inward processing arrangements , as has been the case to date .
we back the amendments which have their interests in mind .
together with the rapporteur , we would call on the commission to keep a close eye on the balance between agriculture and the food industry in europe during the forthcoming negotiations within the framework of the wto .
the first is that this proposal is not driven so much by the restrictions imposed by the wto , but particularly by the well-known budget restrictions currently being applied in the european union , specifically due to the need to reallocate means and resources to commitments that the union has given in the field of external affairs , notably kosovo .
what is not acceptable is that little more than a year ago , the financial perspectives up to 2007 were approved , and now , a few months later , resources that had been earmarked for agriculture are being withdrawn .
the second risk is that the increasing use of inward processing could put us in the extremely dangerous situation of no longer producing many agricultural products within the european union , since it would be more profitable to import them in their raw state , process them and re-export them .
the third risk relates to our negotiating strategy for the millennium round .
this week , the commission has approved a document on the competitiveness of our exports , which reveals its fundamental position on the various types of export aid .
the commission ' s position is quite clear : the european union will not in future accept reductions , within the wto , only in support for export refunds - there will also have to be reductions in all types of support provided by our main competitors in the international markets , ranging from export credits to food aid and state-run businesses .
the european union ' s stance on this issue is totally correct : all types of aid which have a similar effect must come under the wto rules , not only the refund system used by the european union .
mr president , in complimenting mr souchet on his work , i express my disappointment and concern with regard to the commission proposal to reduce subsidies worth eur 145 million per year to the food and drink industry .
i fully support the rapporteur in his proposals that the measure should only be introduced on a temporary basis and that aid should be introduced to cushion the effects on the sectors which are most affected .
it is only right and proper that we negotiate a new regulatory framework for exports or products not covered by annex i as part of the wto millennium round .
with the proposed enlargement of the european union to central and eastern europe , we must take a strong hand in safeguarding our european objective which , of course , is to develop agriculture as a major and competitive player in world trade .
already our competitors have demonstrated their negotiating skills in this crucial area of international policy .
in this sense , an interim regulation is essential .
i hope that your deliberations will lead to a consensus that opens the way for a rapid implementation early in the new budgetary year .
export refunds are an important instrument in sustaining the industry ' s competitiveness by compensating for high prices of basic agricultural products in the union .
it is for this reason that the commission has proposed , within a balanced package of specific measures , an additional facility of inward processing relief - ipr - that will help compensate for the industry ' s loss of international competitiveness .
the commission can agree with your proposed amendments nos 2 , 6 , 10 , 13 and 15 .
the commission can broadly agree with the purpose of amendments nos 1 , 3 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 11 , 14 but does not consider them entirely appropriate for a number of reasons .
the remaining flexibility under the 2000 budget has already been used , which relates to amendment no 9 .
finally , the commission is not ready to accept amendments nos 4 , 5 , 12 , 16 and part of amendment no 1 .
this relates to part of amendments nos 1 , 4 , 12 and 16 .
moreover , the use of c-sugar in processed products for export is not possible under current market organisation : this concerns amendment no 12 .
operators importing products under the ipr do not receive any refund for the export of processed goods , so the assumption in amendment no 5 is incorrect .
mr president , permit me to address two comments to the commission .
firstly , the commissioner said : in view of the " high prices of basic agricultural products in the union " .
the debate is closed .
enforcement of civil and commercial judgments the next item is the debate on the report ( a5-0253 / 2000 ) by mrs wallis , on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , on the proposal for a council regulation ( ec ) on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters [ com ( 1999 ) 348 - c5-0169 / 1999 - 1999 / 0154 ( cns ) ] .
i hope she would approve of where we have got to today , and how the european union is now able to allow lawyers to move and practise in other member states by choice rather than force of circumstance and that by this regulation our committee will further assist a step forward in giving greater access to justice to our citizens across europe .
i want to use this occasion to say something about the importance of what we are doing here .
the original ec convention on jurisdiction and judgments of 1968 was an important landmark in this field of international private law , marking a departure from a previous patchwork of mainly bilateral treaties between various countries .
the committee has been at pains throughout this process to point out and highlight the importance of the internal market dimension of this proposal which gives us a chance to ensure even more strongly than before that our businesses and citizens can have confidence that contracts and obligations they enter into across the union will be upheld by a common framework of procedural law on jurisdiction and enforcement .
the issue that has , of course , taken most of the committee ' s time and attention has been the fact that this proposal for a regulation has coincided with the growth of e-commerce which in itself offers enormous opportunities to business and consumers within the internal market .
the committee has , as the commission will be well aware , grappled long and hard with the issues raised in articles 15 and 17 of the proposed regulation .
these two articles , in whatever combination , have to be read together .
the commission proposal in line with previous consumer protection legislation took the view in dealing with article 15 that all such disputes should go to the consumer ' s court whilst willing to defer to a general proposition that contracts concluded at a distance should fall under this category .
there can be no doubt that the brussels convention made enormous strides in simplifying the jurisdiction rules applicable to cross-border disputes but they are still a lawyer ' s dream and a litigant ' s nightmare .
the opening up of a simple effective system of cross-border disputes is the committee ' s goal in introducing the concept of adr and we welcome the way in which this has already been picked up and worked on by the commission .
there was also agreement in committee that in this evolving area we remain deeply concerned as to the impact of legislation on europe ' s e-business .
i wish to conclude with a note of thanks to my colleague on the committee , especially to our chairman who i know feels as passionately as i do about this area of law , whatever our differences , but my biggest set of thanks must go to the committee secretariat and to mr robert bray for all his help and advice throughout this process .
mr president , firstly , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur of her presentation for what is a very fair and balanced report .
my committee considers it important to give a positive response to this commission proposal , which strives to make the recognition and enforcement of judgments between member states almost automatic .
my committee also considers that the provision of the regulation which seeks to protect the weaker parties in a contract should be approved .
to differentiate between the rights of those buying on line and those shopping in the high street would go against the valuable work that the european parliament and the eu in general has already done in championing the rights of the citizens .
e-consumers , in common with all weaker parties to a contract and indeed european citizens in general , deserve and should be given the right to a fair hearing .
finally , my committee welcomes the introduction of alternative dispute resolution procedures and hopes that this regulation can enter into force as soon as possible .
rarely have i felt as proud of my position as i am today in relation to this report , due to the work that has been carried out in committee over the last year .
we have had disagreements , mr president , but i am sure that whatever the result achieved in this house tomorrow , the work of the committee on legal affairs will have moved this issue forward significantly .
i shall now continue , mr president , on behalf of the ppe .
the internal market must be a genuine domestic market , both for businesses and for consumers .
as for the consumer , it is proposed that the scope of the special system be extended to those who sign contracts at a distance within the internal market with no distinction whatsoever between directed and undirected activities and , as the rapporteur has highlighted , it incorporates the extrajudicial resolution of disputes into the regulation .
with regard to the promotion of cross-border electronic commerce , it is proposed to allow businesses , under certain very specific and very restricted circumstances , to insert jurisdiction clauses which the consumer could accept .
furthermore , mr president , that committee worked alone , with no transparency , with no interministerial consultations and without consulting the interested parties .
it is clear that the justice and home affairs council expected that , given the weak institutional powers of this parliament in this field , even after amsterdam , the final adoption of the regulation by the council would be a mere formality .
after more than one year of discussion in the committee on legal affairs , i can say simply that the arguments levelled against its report lack foundation and are more the result of intimidation and demagoguery than of basic reasoning .
in conclusion , mr president , it seems to me that in this field of judicial cooperation parliament must send a clear signal to the council and the commission that it will not accept being sidelined or manipulated by dogmatic arguments that represent purely nationalist interests .
instead , by dint of its thorough work , parliament has here a great opportunity to demonstrate that pragmatic and reasonable solutions can be found to rebalance this proposal whatever the result tomorrow in this house .
both business and industry can gain from a common sense approach to this .
the way to persuade those consumers to take the plunge is to ensure that their rights are intact and this has to include , in my group ' s view , the right to take action in their own national court .
in reality we know that regulating the e-commerce world in the interests of both business and consumers requires a more innovative approach .
america online , for example , runs its own merchant business programme where it guarantees to support the consumer in getting legal redress from any of the businesses that use them as a provider .
even in the us , where only 8 % of websites have trustmarks , there are still considerable problems gaining legal redress .
the consumer cannot be bound to lose his right to go to court by contracts , as inserted in the report that is before us from the legal affairs committee .
more work needs to be done in the area .
i cannot deprive my constituents of their right to sue in their own courts .
i am very pleased that in my country the cbi has backed mrs wallis ' approach .
i appeal , therefore , for some common sense in this debate .
we are all struggling in the e-commerce world to get legislation that is right , to get the right balance between self-regulation and a regulatory framework which gives minimum guarantees .
this cannot be at the expense of consumers .
the shared aim of all of us is to try to find a balanced way of protecting consumers and shielding smes from differing member state jurisdictions .
in these circumstances it is not unreasonable to build on the previous content of article 15 , use the concept of " directed at " , acknowledge that this is a concept also found in american jurisprudence and utilised by wipo .
we are merely signalling a political direction but it is important that we should signal a legally certain and workable solution , not one that will create as many problems as it seeks to solve .
it has been a long and hard road .
the european commission has made a proposal which would ensure that consumers would have the right to take action in their own national courts and legal disputes arising from cross-border e-commerce transactions .
the amendments shift the balance in the report towards traders and away from consumers .
the main problem with this approach is that it assumes that consumers first read the small print in such contracts and , even if they do , that they fully understand the implications of agreeing to forego the right to sue in their own courts and the differences in relation to costs incurred , legal systems , the choice of language used and so on .
such a system will also promote the convergence and coordination of the different national legal systems and enable parties to check on the status of trading partners and suppliers , especially in an age of on-line trading .
i broadly welcome this report and i want to focus in particular on amendment no 20 , recital 26 ( new ) , which states that the commission will consider proposals for the establishment of a centralised electronic european union causebook and judgment registry database .
but we have yet to establish an infrastructure to enable the brussels convention , as amended and extended , to benefit our eu consumer citizens and to attract inward investment .
it is necessary to establish the causebook which has been inspired by a proposal from an irish lawyer , twinkle egan who has worked diligently on this initiative for some years .
any of us , while we are here in brussels , could buy something from hong kong over the internet and have it delivered to buenos aires .
however , in our opinion , the market requires the rapid settling of potential disputes by the transferral of these disputes to alternative systems of justice where experts are called upon to find solutions .
it is they who introduce new rules and new ways of settling disputes .
the globalisation of markets is producing a plurality of legal systems created by the same social groups which they are intended to serve .
what is more , we would be holding back the economic development and increase in employment which should , apparently , come with the new economy .
we do not support this approach , considering also that , in the directive on electronic commerce adopted a few months ago , we laid down rules governing the signing of on-line contracts and confirmed the validity of the principles of the internal market , rule of origin and on country control .
therefore , my group fully supports the position of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market - which tends precisely towards greater flexibility - and throws down one final challenge : legal solutions for the markets now require global responses , especially in the context of the regulation of the new economy itself .
mr president , commissioner , unlike many other meps , i am not in the habit of routinely thanking the rapporteur .
i would like to join my colleagues in thanking mrs wallis for her tremendous effort and work on this very difficult brief and i also want to support the call by my colleague , pat the cope gallagher , and my other irish colleague , nuala ahern , with regard to the establishment of a centralised european union electronic database on case-law , put forward by twinkle egan , a barrister from ireland .
however , when we look at the difficulties which have arisen with regard to this report , when we look at the disparate views - the so-called purists on behalf of the consumers or the other so-called purists on behalf of business and e-commerce - we sometimes forget that a lot of small- and medium-sized enterprises are consumers themselves , who will be trading with larger companies or larger suppliers and who deserve the same protection that i , " as an individual " or anybody else , as an individual consumer , would have .
we need to enable europe , which is lagging behind in e-commerce and internet business worldwide , to put in place new arrangements with regard to creation of on-line business and the protection of consumer rights and also to ensure that europe takes its rightful place at the top of the world trading system of internet and on-line businesses .
no consumer , " as an individual " or as a company , can be denied the ultimate right to take legal action but that does not mean that this should be the first course of action .
finally , i would once again like to thank the rapporteur and the commission representatives for their work and remind all members that there is another way under the brussels i convention and we can put other mechanisms in place .
let us agree on this report and then make changes in other areas as they come before us .
in the world of networks traditional jurisdiction-based disputes-resolution procedures are of no real help to consumers and traders when things go wrong .
we have an opportunity tomorrow to vote for the 21st century , its consumers , traders and citizens by voting for the committee ' s report or we can look at the future and then turn our back on it and find superficial comfort in the last century by voting for the amendments .
we , in my delegation and in this group , shall be voting for the 21st century ' s solutions to 21st problems and supporting the committee ' s report .
mr president , i respect your tenureship of the chair and i yield to no one in that , but i wonder how you can justify the fact that you indicate a time and then in the case of several speakers absolutely ignore it .
in general , members have respected the time limits for their interventions and , in any event , they have expressed their points of view .
the report , as it was approved within the committee , is in my view a fine example of a document which has struck a fine balance between the interests of all parties , both small- and medium-sized businesses and consumers .
we talk about ' contracts concluded at a distance ' , terminology which , even to a lay person , is far more transparent than ' directed activities ' , as is currently used in the amendment .
secondly , it is crucial in my opinion that the report offers parties themselves the opportunity of building a competence clause into their contracts .
if we deny a party contractual freedom and , with it , the constitutional right to go to court , i can foresee various procedures needing to be instituted on account of denial of justice .
in my view , the brussels convention is of major strategic importance for the development of e-commerce within the internal market and it will also have a major impact on the success or failure of small- and medium-sized businesses .
i therefore hope that this report , as approved in the committee , will be adopted in its unamended form in the plenary tomorrow .
mr president , as i have said in this chamber on previous occasions , i have the privilege of working in a very interesting legal affairs committee and being one of the few non-lawyers on the committee .
diana wallis as a distinguished international lawyer has been the ideal person to work on this very complex file .
i want to pick up on what is a central point for me : we are , as my colleague lord inglewood said , trying to reflect a new world in which we want small businesses to take advantage of the most powerful , international marketing tool that they have ever been offered .
there are many business that we want to use the network , the internet , to sell to consumers all over europe .
large businesses , even medium-sized businesses , will have offices all over europe , they will have lawyers , they will be able to deal with consumers in that respect .
what we have done is offer small companies the alternative of doing something else .
they can offer consumers alternative jurisdiction but only under very specific conditions .
it gives them choices and it reflects their enhanced status in a new internet world , which gives them more power and more choices than ever before .
even more importantly , it will also threaten the new economy and the e-economy in the european union .
we have uncertainty and legal risk for business without genuine consumer protection , because in many cases the right to sue in your own home court may be illusory if you cannot enforce the judgment without going overseas and incurring the same inconvenience as if you had to go overseas in any event to litigate this issue .
the scope of this regulation is therefore very broad .
to achieve greater flexibility and to adapt more efficiently to the specific needs of the parties in a given dispute , the proposal for a regulation lays down alternative rules for jurisdiction , essentially the jurisdiction of the courts in the member state of the place where the contract was concluded or of the place where the damage was done in the event that an offence has been committed .
as long as certain conditions are met , these parties have the right to bring a case before a court in the member state in which they reside .
it is therefore worth bearing in mind that in the field of contracts , we are dealing with legal rules on general contracts between companies , between companies and consumers , and even contracts between private individuals .
there is an enormous and immediate advantage in moving towards adopting a regulation on this matter on the basis of civil judicial cooperation .
furthermore , we are convinced that it is possible to make use of new communication technologies , such as the internet , the new network concept and flows to facilitate extrajudicial dispute resolution .
there must therefore be rules on the jurisdiction of the courts in those cases - which the commission hopes will be rare - where an alternative form of resolution is not possible or does not produce a satisfactory result .
accordingly , with regard to consumer contracts the commission found the discussion in the committee on legal affairs extremely useful and takes the view that the second part of amendment no 23 contains a principle which is considerably clearer and more reliable than that contained in our original proposal .
this action would , however , have two consequences for article 15 .
first of all , its wording needs to be adapted so that it does not limit the scope of article 15 to contracts concluded in the consumer ' s home , which is an impossible condition to establish for contracts concluded electronically .
we are therefore not inclined to retain the first part of amendment no 23 .
the same thing applies to the amendment seeking to open up the system laid down in the brussels convention on jurisdiction clauses in consumer contracts .
i am referring here to article 17 .
the new article 17 ( a ) that has been proposed seeks to replace the guarantees provided by the courts by an extrajudicial and binding system of dispute resolution .
such a solution would , in fact , raise constitutional issues in some member states , in which it is not possible to prohibit access to the courts , even if only as a last resort , and would open the way for an interpretation of what is a question of law and what is a question of fact in this type of contract which , in my opinion , would vitiate the efficiency and speed of the system .
the commission ' s view is that this regulation should not depend on the adoption of a package of legislative and non-legislative measures on e-commerce between companies and consumers .
i would remind you of the revision of the commission ' s 1998 recommendation on the principles applying to alternative dispute resolution bodies , which in fact form the basis of what is known as the eej-net - the european extrajudicial network - which has already been launched .
we therefore think that , in order to allow this process some time in which to develop , it would be appropriate if the entry into force of this regulation were postponed for a few months .
the debate is closed .
this debate is opened on behalf of the council and commission .
the commission believes that the solidarity shown by the other member states can and must support the spanish authorities ' fight against terrorism .
the commission therefore welcomes the step forward represented by the enshrinement in the treaty of amsterdam of the principle of solidarity in the fight against terrorism .
article 29 of the treaty on european union specifically mentions terrorism as one of the forms of crime to be prevented and fought at european level and one of the areas in which the european union can bring added value to this fight .
we must go further in terms of european cooperation .
the treaty of amsterdam , as i have already stated , enables the european union to make this contribution .
europol , whose mandate expressly covers terrorism , must also give its support to this joint action and participate in these joint investigation teams .
the greater operational capacity europol has , the more effective its support will be .
although it is true that in many cases bilateral cooperation between police forces is an essential instrument for combating terrorism , it is no less true that the need to establish the link between some terrorist acts and other forms of organised crime , in its methods , in its networks of activity and even in its sources of financing , requires a multilateral , not just a bilateral vision of the phenomenon of terrorism .
in democratic societies such as ours , terrorism cannot take shelter behind any supposedly political justification .
hence , all terrorist attacks are not just attacks on democracy and the rule of law but they also prevent europe ' s citizens from enjoying the freedom that we all desire .
mr president , i am convinced that the vast majority of basque people , given the opportunity , would thank the french presidency of the council and the european parliament for echoing their deep desire for peace and democratic coexistence .
ladies and gentlemen , since the first democratic elections took place in spain in 1977 , the basque country has emerged as the european region with the highest degree of self-government .
however , since our constitution was approved , enshrining the democratic rights of the people of spain , eta has killed 804 people in my country and left over 2000 widows and orphans all over spain , mainly in the basque country .
today , thanks to this debate , they are a little less alone .
mr president , last thursday while we were presenting a written declaration to the parliament register through which we sought a direct and active commitment from the european parliament in the fight against eta terrorism , this criminal organisation attempted to kill jose ramon recalde .
recalde , a 70-year-old socialist , has dedicated his life to defending democracy and freedom .
this is something he pursued as a teacher in san sebastian in the turbulent 1960s , when he became , in the eyes of his students , an example of intellectual rigour and human decency .
what is more , ladies and gentlemen , the damage inflicted on us by eta goes beyond damage to our coexistence , to the attacks on our freedom and on our lives .
but before that , in 1977 , there was a general amnesty in spain and all political prisoners , among them all members of eta that had been imprisoned during the franco years , were freed .
everything is subject to change , but we shall never accept terrorism as an instrument for changing our will .
democracy and human rights are the very raison d ' etre of the european union .
this is why whenever fascist and totalitarian acts committed by eta in one part of europe strip us of our freedom , people elsewhere in europe must feel that our freedom , everyone ' s freedom - whatever a person ' s nationality , language , culture or religion - is under threat . ( the president asked the speaker to conclude ) ladies and gentlemen , i simply wanted to say that the people of the basque country are normal , ordinary people , who are anxious to find a way out of this impasse , and be free to walk around our towns without watching our backs .
we simply want to live in peace and defend our freedom .
i should like to point out that at the summit of the heads of state and government which was held on 19 and 20 june this year in santa maria da feira , in portugal , the council expressed its outrage at the tragic events related to terrorism in europe and vigorously reaffirmed its commitment to continuing to fight terrorism at european level and to stepping up and intensifying cooperation between member states in this area .
since france currently holds the council presidency , at this point i would particularly like to express our solidarity in the face of the terrorism in spain , which is the most deadly in europe at the present time .
in no instance can violent nationalism be compatible with the ideals of the european union .
it is the role and the responsibility of the european union in combating terrorism in general , and therefore also terrorism in spain , which i wished to discuss this morning in my capacity as co-chairman , together with elisabeth guigou , the french minister of justice , of the justice and home affairs council .
the implementation of this network , undoubtedly the most effective cooperative network , was the result of the action programme adopted in dublin in june 1990 by the ministers of justice and home affairs of the twelve member states at that time .
i should also at this point mention the role played by the european police office , europol , in combating terrorism .
the initial wording of the convention stipulated that europol ' s mandate would be extended to terrorism within two years at the latest of the convention ' s entry into force , which was on 1 october 1998 .
as you know , there is a europol department dedicated to combating terrorism .
in view of the criminal activity undertaken at that time by some terrorist groups , the justice and home affairs council , which met on 28 and 29 may 1998 , took the decision to authorise europol to bring forward its counter-terrorism activities and have them begin on 1 january 1999 .
in particular , the french presidency wishes to improve and intensify the cooperation between member states , but also to extend this cooperation yet further to include the candidate countries .
among the priorities of the french presidency i should particularly like to mention the initiative to establish a programme of information and measures to be undertaken in order to prepare for the accession of the candidate countries to the european union .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it is this system , with a combination of bilateral and multilateral cooperation , which very recently , in fact just a few days ago , made it possible to achieve some remarkable successes in the fight against terrorism in spain .
mr president , while we have been here discussing these issues , jose luis ruiz , a town councillor of the governing partido popular party in a town in catalonia , has been murdered by eta .
some are trying to confuse us and seem intent on creating confusion between the people of good will in parliament .
it is important for a parliament to speak out in public on this kind of matter .
this is why i strongly urge those that presented the declaration - as i have done so in private and do so now publicly - to do all they can to enable us to sign it , because any position that is adopted on terrorism requires universal backing .
on the other hand , if this declaration is supposed to stem from the 1997 declaration adopted by parliament , which spoke of dialogue in positive terms , it would seem strange not to have recourse to it , and in particular , to the eighth paragraph in which parliament considers dialogue in positive terms .
a few days ago in strasbourg , president nicole fontaine herself made reference to all of the democrats of europe , men and women alike , and especially the basque country in spain , which , in her view , continues to believe in political dialogue , despite the climate of terror that exists .
i shall not quote from the text , but the commissioner ' s report on terrorism presented to parliament in 1997 is there for consultation .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , although all groups , including ours , must be self-critical , it is now time we set to work and , above all , attempted to combat such a serious problem as terrorism from solid foundations , the maximum consensus possible and , of course , in the knowledge that dialogue has been , is and will always be the most valued method for achieving peace and reconciliation .
we could have presented an alternative text here , but this would have been a serious mistake because in our view , resolving a matter as serious and important as this requires us to do everything that we can , except to put forward proposals that divide parliament .
thirty years ago at the height of the franco dictatorship in 1970 , i was in prison for championing freedoms and at that time i was against eta .
i shall end , mr president , by recalling the words of jorge luis borges when he wrote " around 500 years before the christian era , the greatest thing to happen in the history of the world occurred in greece - the discovery of dialogue .
today is pointless already , after all that we have heard about the significance of eta terrorism , its devastating effects on the population , its outright assault on the democratic values enshrined in the spanish constitution of 1978 and in the statute of guernica , that cost the countless efforts and sacrifices of the basque and spanish people as a whole to achieve .
political dialogue should take place between democratic parties , whether they be nationalist or not , with convergencia democratica de catalunya , with convergencia i unio , with the pnv , with eusko alkartasuna , with izquierda unida , with the psoe , with the governing partido popular , and within the institutions , transparently and clearly , on behalf of the people and answering to all spanish citizens .
they are not tolerant , they have spoken for more than three-quarters of an hour , they cannot stand just one minute by me , that is their democracy . ( continuing protests ) the day when the european union will stand for a political solution , i will assure you that for 100 % of the basque inhabitants , including pp and socialists , will be the happiest day in our lives .
mr president , on behalf of the british conservatives , i should like to offer our strong support to the spanish authorities in their fight against terrorism .
we support the spanish government and security forces in their tough stance against eta terrorism and express solidarity with the spanish people and in particular , those that have suffered directly as victims of terrorism . ( applause ) mr president , let us send out a very clear and unequivocal message from this parliament today that violence has no role of any description in solving the problems of a divided people .
organisations which use violence , should be told very clearly that their claim to be acting to achieve human and civil rights for people is completely false , because their method undermines the most fundamental human right of all , the right to life .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i of course support the unreserved condemnation and outrage that everyone within this chamber feels at the news that the blindest and most cowardly form of terrorism has struck once again in spain , at 7.40 this morning , making a victim of jose ruiz , a municipal councillor in sant adria de besos , in catalonia .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of the commission , i would just like to add my own deepest sympathy with regard to the victim of the attack which occurred in catalonia this morning , and also to stress my concern at the events in london .
in particular , i want to state that , outside this debate on the legal instruments - police cooperation , legal cooperation , the questions of how to make the extradition system more effective and how to ensure a european mandate for investigation , which we are looking into - there is an added value which europe is providing in the fight for freedom and democracy .
we must never lose faith in the fact that freedom and democracy are values for all time .
parliament needs to facilitate dialogue between the democrats .
mr president , i am now in a position to provide parliament with more details .
the debate is closed .
getting effective sanctions means firstly exploiting eu powers for anti-discrimination laws and agreeing the article 13 race directive in record time sent the right signal of determination .
effectiveness also means stepping up intergovernmental police and judicial cooperation under article 29 of the eu treaty and ways to do that are explored here .
firstly , i regret that the opportunity has been taken to identify specific countries and parties as especially bad e.g .
mr president , in response to an inquiry from the pds group in the bundestag , the german government revealed that in 1999 , a total of 2031 right-wing extremist and anti-semitic criminal offences were committed in germany .
the well-known german newspaper ' der tagesspiegel ' records that there have been 93 murders with a right-wing extremist background over the past ten years .
but there are just as many reasons that have to do with the developments that have taken place over the last ten years , for example the dissociation of economic and social development in eastern germany from that in the former bundeslander , the lack of respect for east germans ' curriculum vitaes and their experience , and the lack of rigour in the debate on right-wing extremism past and present .
the council and the presidency attach great importance to the european conference against racism " all different , all equal " which will be held in strasbourg between 11 and 13 october 2000 , in preparation for the 2001 un world conference against racism .
the council does intend , and i must stress this , to present a common position at the world conference which is due to be held next year in south africa , and work on finalising this common position has already been set in motion .
in order to coordinate their positions ready for the european conference , the member sates will , of course , take account of the very useful recommendations given in the document provided by the commission departments on 17 april .
i should , further , like to point out that on 21 june 2000 , the council directive was adopted , implementing the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin .
because of the duplication that now exists between this directive and the proposal for a directive on the creation of a general framework promoting equal treatment in employment and work - the directive on discrimination - racial discrimination was withdrawn from its scope , but let me remind you that the scope of this proposal for a directive is a great deal more limited than that of the directive previously adopted , which covers not only the sectors of employment and work but also social protection , welfare benefits and education , as well as access to goods and services and the provision of goods and services .
next , work on the community action programme to combat discrimination is well underway within the council and i can safely state today that , if the european parliament issues its opinion during its first part-session in october , the council will be in a position to adopt a political agreement on this text on 17 october , so that the text could be adopted before the end of the french presidency , enabling the programme to be launched , as anticipated , on 1 january 2001 .
finally , on the subject of the 1996 joint action concerning action to combat racism and xenophobia , in may 1998 the council examined a report on member states ' compliance with the obligations upon them under the joint action and decided that the implementation of this joint action should be re-examined in 2000 .
the two monsters in europe today are terrorism and racism .
in 1996 , the council approved a joint action on judicial cooperation between member states on questions of racism .
articles 29 and 13 allow us to adopt quite specific policies .
secondly , two directives have been proposed on the basis of article 13 ; the directive on racial discrimination was voted through by the european parliament and the council in record time , a mere six months , and is now part of european legislation .
we have already submitted two documents incorporating all the experience and proposals on how to combat racism at community level , together with our experience in matters of education , training , research and policy for young people in order to address these matters .
there is financial support for the conference as regards non-governmental organisations because we believe that they can play an important role , over and above the role of governments and , of course , we are negotiating for support for the involvement of non-governmental organisations in the regional conferences to be held in chile , senegal and iran .
we can , moreover , even see the revival of racism in some european union countries .
in this , as the commission , the council of ministers and parliament , we have a shared responsibility and we want to be very scrupulous about this common approach , as europe ' s credibility , at this world conference against racism , will depend , above all , on our assessment of the situation and on how credible we are on our own territory .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i think that this debate serves as a timely continuation of the debate we held in parliament first thing this morning on the issue of terrorism in spain .
i say that this debate is a timely continuation of this morning ' s debate because , as john hume has so often reminded us in parliament , all conflicts are linked to the notion of difference , all conflicts focus on what we do not accept in others .
john hume has also reminded us on many occasions in parliament that the european union is and must continue to be an example of conflict resolution .
one could say that the european union today is the practical expression of the exact opposite to the notions of terrorism and racism .
however , mr president , i think there is another , more important issue that we must tackle without delay .
mr president , from the racial persecution in el ejido , in spain , to the murder of mozambicans in east germany , everywhere incidents of racist violence are inflaming passions in the heart of europe .
we have only succeeded in combating the front national effectively in france because we never had any government alliance .
i shall conclude by thanking commissioner diamantopoulou for making the comparison between terrorism and racism , because i consider that it is an attack on the physical dignity of persons , and as such is intolerable .
in relation to this report , i would like to focus particularly on amendment no 6 - which i hope will be rejected - which cites the political movement to which i belong as a racist party .
i reiterate : in italy , my movement is not currently arraigned on charges of racism and has never been convicted of racism in the past , and i therefore fiercely reject this accusation .
they make up between 1 and 2.5 % of the population over there , according to a recent german press source .
our fellow mep , andre brie provides a clear and plausible answer to this .
but this debate should never be misused for other purposes .
what we really need is a plan for tackling the root causes , immigration policy strategies that take account of integration capacity , and of an individual member state ' s absorption capacity , also strategies leading to a common asylum policy which help refugees whilst tackling abuse , and measures promoting integration .
the same applies to you , mr pirker , in every sense .
in the united states of america , where , in 2050 , whites will be in a minority , there is an american nazi party and there is a candidate for the american presidential elections from the nazi party , but no one thinks of banning it , no one is afraid , because the weapons of democracy and freedom are being used to combat racism .
this is how racism must be fought , and this is how we must fight it in europe .
the events that took place in dessau , munich , ludwigshafen , dusseldorf are of such concern to us primarily because violent acts were committed against defenceless people with great indifference and coldbloodedness .
commissioner diamantopoulou made the point very clearly that there are two monsters facing us here in europe , terrorism and racism .
if europe wishes to play a central role in the world conference against racism it has to start seeing itself as others see it rather than as we would like to be .
over the past few weeks , the german government has made an additional dm 70 million available for just such projects .
however , whether some of us like it or not , europe is already a multiracial and multicultural continent and no racist is going to stop people intermingling and intermarrying .
the package of measures which commissioner diamantopoulou has already presented is , in my view , an integrated proposal and may provide a convincing response to the racism and xenophobia which we are witnessing today in the european union .
that the state and political leaders have a responsibility goes without saying .
the debate is closed .
in so doing , they undermine our national economies , and in view of corruption , also erode our social systems and states .
firstly , because the failure to involve parliament has taken us a step backwards , not just to the days before the treaty of amsterdam , but long before the treaty of maastricht , because according to chapter 6 , parliament must be involved in every case .
the presidency has also committed itself to involving parliament to a greater extent in the work undertaken in the field of justice and home affairs , in particular by means of regular participation in the meetings of your parliamentary committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs .
on the other hand , as you know , on 21 december 1999 , the council sent parliament the strategy document on organised crime drawn up under the finnish presidency , expressly specifying that it wished to keep parliament informed right from the start of discussions on this document .
ladies and gentlemen , the council is not unaware that , in response to the strategy document , parliament is currently working on a new document on organised crime .
we are pleased to see the work carried out by parliament .
mr president , the treaty of amsterdam marked the beginning of the so-called ' communitisation ' of many policies , but not those relating to criminal matters in both procedural and substantive terms .
mr president , i should like to thank the french presidency for its very clear statement .
legal and police cooperation is absolutely vital in the fight against organised crime , particularly the trafficking of human beings , the sexual exploitation of children , and money laundering .
criminal organisations can find themselves in a position of strength thanks to the financial operations they carry out in order to launder criminal proceeds .
the fight against organised crime is an important undertaking , where we must not fail .
the europe we want to build is a europe of rights .
the liberal group believes that , in addition to all kinds of practical measures which are included in the document , it is , in particular , high time that criminal prosecution was improved by means of european cooperation .
i would like to take this opportunity to argue once again in favour of setting up a european public prosecution office .
organised crime in the european union has seen significant developments over the last decade , requiring action essentially in the areas of computer crime , crime involving trafficking in human beings , drugs and arms , terrorism , child pornography and money-laundering as well as corruption and fraud .
the european citizens , who , every day , live through the drama of all forms of petty and serious crime - from international drug trafficking to the sexual exploitation of children , from the trafficking and exploitation of human beings to illegal immigration - who live in towns which are unsafe or even dangerous , would like to be able to express their opinions and to lay claim , democratically , through their representatives at the european parliament , to their rights and priorities of security and the fight against crime .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 11 a.m .
vote mr president , first of all i should like to say that i am astounded at the vote on amendment no 16 because , as far as i was aware , it had been withdrawn , but , more especially , i should like to request that my report be referred back to committee pursuant to rule 69 ( 2 ) .
i am therefore requesting , mr president , that my request for referral to committee be put to the vote .
mr president , i would like to support the rapporteur ' s motion .
we want this regulation but we want it with our improvements .
during the debate late last night there were at least ten speakers who all raised points very critical of the commission .
i felt very sorry for commissioner nielson who had to respond as duty commissioner and who read out about half a page prepared by commissioner liikanen .
now we can see that , in europe , the left supports left-wing racism and is in favour of left-wing anti-semitism ! ( uproar ) these are all very interesting political games but the procedure is that we hold the debate and vote afterwards .
moreover , as i would not class myself as one of those who do not participate in committee work , i would like to remind the house that it was we who tabled the amendments and point out that we maintained a very balanced line in committee .
mr president , this is a plea for everyone to calm down a little on the subject of this debate on racism .
it is a report which is intended to assist developing countries in preserving the environment .
skinner report ( a5-0222 / 2000 ) mr president , as representative of the pensioners ' party , i was very happy to vote for the skinner report , which lays down safety measures to prevent occupational accidents .
it is important that untruths are rapidly rebutted .
all other questions ought to be dealt with at local , regional or national levels .
hernandez mollar report ( a5-0225 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the hernandez mollar report because pensioners and elderly people are extremely concerned by what might happen to them with modernisation and the development of electronic and computer science .
this convention was signed on 15 june 1990 .
the proposed revised wording for articles 22 and 23 of the eurodac regulation , which is what has currently been referred to parliament , was therefore rejected by the committee which proposed , instead , an amendment endowing the commission with the unconditional right to exercise implementing powers .
we were very pleased to note that , at the council meeting ( legal affairs and the internal market ) on 29 october 1999 , the danish government stated that it wanted to participate fully in eurodac cooperation on an intergovernmental basis .
the socialist group voted accordingly in that particular parliament vote and hopes that the commission and the council will accept our proposals .
mr pirker , the rapporteur , opted to comment only on the part of the report that had been amended .
glase report ( a5-0220 / 2000 ) mr president , ' illegal work ' could also be referred to as ' underground work ' .
if we want to combat illegal working practices we must also permit pensioners - who live on low , paltry , starvation-ration pensions - to receive a regular salary in addition to a pension , or else they will be forced to remain underground , where they could well end up suffocating .
if parliament truly wished to combat undeclared work , it would have to begin by proposing that any employer guilty of employing a non-declared worker should be forced to employ that person under an open-ended contract .
it is clear , nonetheless , that the member states would be well advised to coordinate their efforts in order to establish a proactive strategy to combat this scourge .
bringing " greater flexibility to the labour market " ( point 11 of the motion for a resolution ) , making " efforts to reduce tax and contribution levels " ( point 11 ) , and promoting " flexible working hours " ( point 26 ) will not be sufficient to reduce the extent of undeclared work .
a new phase of brussels-inspired regulating mania would be neither use nor ornament in the fight against illicit work in the member states of the european union .
unfortunately , the european parliament report under discussion goes in completely the wrong direction ; it basically backs employers and calls for even more neo-liberal measures on the job market , ostensibly in order to wipe out undeclared work .
resolution on racism ( b5-0766 / 2000 ) i would like to express my disappointment and dismay at the ppe ' s vote on the resolution on the world conference against racism .
after much soul-searching in the socialist group we decided that we would withdraw that amendment in the interests of getting the largest majority possible in parliament against the forces of racism , the extreme right and anti-semitism .
mr president , on behalf of my group , i should also like to express our disappointment at our failure to successfully conclude this matter , in spite of all of the efforts we all made so that the european union could adopt a strong position , with the backing of parliament , on something as important as the world conference against racism .
a desire to link the issue of racism with the situation in austria represents an attempt to defame the country of austria .
we radicals consider that parliament and europe must also learn from their past , which lives on today through prohibitions , be they right-wing , left-wing , socialist or extreme right-wing .
in principle , we welcome the action plan put forward by the council , but we also join the committee in criticising the council over its consultation obligations .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday , 21 september 2000 .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting the minutes of the sitting on thursday , 21 september have been distributed .
yes indeed , mrs thors , we shall amend the minutes accordingly . ( the minutes were approved ) presidency communication on the situation in the middle east ladies and gentlemen , in the last few days , as you know , jerusalem , other towns and the palestinian territories have been thrown into a state of unrest , and there have already been many victims .
the european union has reacted already .
madam president , i sent you a letter on behalf of my group requesting an amendment to the agenda on the issue which you have just addressed in a most dignified way .
in my opinion , since parliament issued a very timely joint invitation to the speakers of the knesset and the palestinian legislative council a month ago , specifically in order to indicate its willingness to become involved in promoting the peace process , we cannot , as members of this parliament , remain silent today .
i also have last thursday 's events in belgrade in mind , and would like to suggest that we should include the middle east peace process in tomorrow 's debate on the biarritz summit .
thank you , mr sterckx , we take note of your statement .
i also think that we and the commission should look carefully to see if the timetable for directive 98 / 18 on safety arrangements for ferry boat passengers can be reduced , given that some of the provisions in this directive last until 2009 .
i also consider that it is wrong for greece to have a derogation as regards liberalising transport by 2004 because this erodes safety standards in greece , in my own country , even further .
madam president , following the tragic events of last week in the aegean , yesterday 's suspension of over 60 greek passenger ships which do not comply with eu laws is , i am sure , welcomed by the whole house .
as early as december in nice , however , majority decision-making is to be introduced in the social and labour-market spheres , as referred to in articles 42 and 137 .
if , subsequently - and with article 42 as a basis - the circle of people covered by regulation no 1408 is enlarged , and if majority voting is introduced under article 137 on , for example , the criteria for granting unemployment benefit , this would have major consequences for both social and labour-market policy in denmark .
unfortunately , these 79 or 80 victims fell foul of large , profit-seeking shipowners .
however much some people are trying to blame the crew , the fact remains that the vessel was over 35 years old , that it should not , in fact , have been sailing and that it sank extremely quickly , preventing more people from being saved .
this centre accommodates refugees attempting to enter great britain , apparently attracted by more favourable reception conditions , and also because of the greater problems in entering at other borders .
i have written to commissioner vitorino to this effect , in order to convey our determination to have a joint european policy on this , indeed our demand for this , before further tragedies have a chance to happen .
mr trakatellis , this is something the house is going to decide upon in a few moments , when we come to setting the agenda .
the conference of presidents turned down my request for this urgency , but this matter continues day after day , week after week .
thank you , mr kirkhope .
madam president , after listening to my danish colleague , you can appreciate the fatuous level at which the debate was carried on in denmark , a debate which led to a ' no ' vote .
i shall of course do so , mr davies .
madam president , the racist incidents in germany since the last part-session sadly mean that i have to raise this issue again .
thank you , mrs schroder .
relating to tuesday : the confederal group of the european united left has approached me with a request to include council and commission statements on the situation in the middle east .
mr wurtz , we are currently talking about the tuesday sitting .
i propose postponing my proposal until thursday afternoon when mr solana is present .
the aim of the ppe-de ' s proposal is to raise a major issue , such as item 5 , which allows us to discuss the shipping disaster in greece at length .
i have received a request for a roll call vote on this .
unfortunately , mr maccormick , this is just not possible .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i must firstly express my satisfaction at the proposed regulation on the principles for registers of taxes and social contributions in accordance with the criteria of the european system of national and regional accounts ( esa 95 ) .
i must say that , in general , the joint position of the council largely includes the criteria of the european parliament ' s position .
i therefore repeat that the joint position of the council must be supported , in my opinion , because this regulation introduces a mechanism for adapting to the european system of accounts 95 which ensures , effectively , comparability and transparency in the public accounting of the member states in areas as sensitive and important as those relating to the calculation of the public deficit .
as you know , commissioner , in its part-session of april this year , parliament approved , at first reading , an amendment on the transitional right in its application which said that the member states could request a transitional period from the commission of no more than two years to adapt their accounting systems to the provisions of this regulation .
mr president , firstly i would like to thank all the speakers for their comments .
the work carried out by parliament and the council has been enormously useful .
the commission fully approves the joint position of the council , which now includes the various amendments tabled by parliament at first reading .
however , two points have been raised which to a certain extent are still to be clarified .
the debate is closed .
public authorities here as in elsewhere also have a key role to play in providing risk capital and financial support in areas where the private sector will fear to tread .
of amendments nos 10 to 20 , i only approve amendments nos 14 , 17 and part of amendment no 18 .
the present communication shows that even if some progress has been made europe still has some major weaknesses , particularly when compared with its main competitors .
we should ask ourselves whether the deadline of 2003 is too late for europe .
i welcome the view put forward by gordon brown and others that we should think about accelerating the timetable , in both the risk capital action plan and the financial services action plan .
the proposal for a directive on supplementary pension funds is essential for the growth of venture capital in europe .
the employment and social committee wanted to make a reference to the findings of the recent report on supplementary pensions , particularly on the prudential rules .
institutional investors such as insurance companies , investment funds and pension funds play an increasingly predominant role in providing risk capital .
it covers all the key points as regards promoting a risk capital culture in europe .
this is particularly necessary given that efficient risk capital markets play a very important role in creating jobs on the one hand , and on the other , in increasing productivity , in financing rapidly growing companies and in creating new businesses .
the report indicates that 66 % of all jobs in the community are in smes and that 80 % to 90 % of funding secured through venture capital is used to hire staff .
although there has been rapid growth in venture capital here over the last five years , europe is still way behind the united states in this area , especially in the high-growth areas of information and biotechnology , and also in the area of health care , including preventive health care , a totally new field that is constantly growing .
this means that pension funds are playing an ever-greater role in providing risk capital .
to sum up , i would like to emphasise once again that the commission communication , combined with the report , can potentially provide a strong impetus for combining forces in the risk capital sector .
mr president , as we all know , the european parliament has , in successive reports and motions for many years now , expressed its interest in and sensitivity towards small and medium-sized enterprises and their problems .
the commission ' s action programmes have done little along these lines ; and yet , in the commission ' s announcement and parliament ' s report , here we are promoting options which are mainly of interest to big lenders and , more to the point , we are doing so on in the name of small and medium-sized enterprises .
the development of the risk capital sector in europe will mainly encourage small and medium-sized businesses to attract capital .
another concern , expressed - rightly so , in my opinion - in paragraph 22 of the motion for a resolution , relates to the possible patenting of natural materials , such as genes and plants .
our tax and administration systems create special problems .
these systems are far too complicated and are often incomprehensible , so that companies of this kind face frustrating obstacles .
the proposed implementation of the action plan is the right way to go and is part of the structural reforms still needed in europe despite all the progress made in implementing structural reforms in the markets for products , capital and services .
furthermore , the commission communication also indicates , and this was also quite rightly taken on board in the report , that we have still not made sufficient progress in building an integrated pan-european risk capital market , and that this is a weak area for the eu .
risk capital investment in europe has more than doubled over the last four years , but only eur 7 billion was invested in europe , compared with eur 12 billion in the usa .
lastly , i would like to stress that this is an area where women entrepreneurs should benefit from special support , and i wish to emphasise that we , the european parliament , should be calling on the commission to monitor progress in this field by means of benchmarking and a scoreboard process .
thirdly , why should public risk capital only be applied in areas which the private sector is reluctant to finance ?
we wish to promote a dynamic spirit of entrepreneurship in europe , but there are still countless difficulties blocking the path of people wanting to become entrepreneurs and to carry out profitable projects .
venture capital companies have a major role to play in this field and the european union must make more rapid progress if it wishes to catch up , in particular with the united states , which is currently far ahead of us .
we feel that the commission ' s proposal is a step in the right direction , although i also think that we must move ahead more quickly , as stated in the amendment requesting the commission to submit an action plan for 2000 in the field of risk capital and to adopt an integrated approach that combines all the community instruments in a coherent way .
as the honourable members know - some speakers have mentioned it - the european council at lisbon paid particular attention to promoting our efforts to implement risk capital in such a way that the action plan will be finished in 2003 .
the communication will include a mechanism for comparative monitoring and assessment to provide precise knowledge of what is happening in each of the member states , and to allow us to draw relevant conclusions and to introduce , into those countries which consider it appropriate , the best practices which have been adopted in others .
nevertheless , these two specific issues must not lead us to forget other aspects which you have highlighted , such as the improvement of the economic , regulatory and legislative situation , which is essential if risk capital is to be as dynamic as it is in the united states .
some of you have mentioned the problem of public funding in the case of risk capital and we certainly have to clarify the compatibility of that public funding with all the legislation on competition .
as for the commission , we are now going to present the first report on what has been done , which will no doubt serve as an incentive for the member states to act by comparing their actions with those of others .
thank you very much , mr solbes .
the debate is closed .
third asia-europe meeting in seoul , 20-21 october 2000 ( asem iii ) the next item is the commission statement on the third asia-europe meeting in seoul on 20 and 21 october ( asem iii ) .
this meeting will mark the maturing of a process which began four years ago in bangkok .
this process complements our bilateral relations with our ten asian partners , as well as our relations with asean , and contributes to the process of integration in asia and in europe .
the asem process is built on three pillars : the political , the economic and the cultural .
the asem process has aided the asean + 3 process , bringing north and south-east asia even closer together .
in the union we also had to , and still have to , learn how to efficiently manage a process which seeks to promote political dialogue in order to deepen the economic relationship between the two regions and increase personal and cultural contacts .
the process is based on a relationship of equality .
by stressing the original idea that this process of dialogue should be developed as a process between equal partners and kept as informal as possible , without an institutionalised secretariat , we have managed , despite certain difficulties , to convince our asian partners that we wish to have equal relations with them , going beyond any donor-receiver relationship with them or any post-colonial standpoint .
i would also like to add that , within the broader framework of the asem process , we are holding a constructive series of seminars on human rights organised jointly with the asia-europe foundation .
the exploitation of illegal immigrants , women and children , particularly in the virulent sex industry , will not only be a subject for debate , but also initiatives will be taken to combat this scourge of our times , which is linked to poverty and insecurity .
in the field of the economy , 1993 was a significant year , since it was the critical moment when our exports to asia exceeded our exports to the united states .
the second asem meeting , which took place in london in 1998 , successfully overcame the crisis .
we supported our asian partners and we adopted concrete measures , such as the significant commitment on trade and investments which reversed the earlier trend and led to a considerable commercial deficit with our partners .
the creation of a trust fund , the establishment of a european financial network of experts and the adoption of two action plans to assist trade and promote investments are other concrete measures which show that europe is concerned about asia , not only in the good times but also in times of crisis .
this is part of our strategy to make progress on the consensus in favour of an immediate start to a new global round .
it is important to fill the cultural vacuum between our two regions .
the final text will reflect the discussions between the leaders , but good work has already been carried out .
finally , the 2000 framework for cooperation between europe and asia , an updated version of the first one , adopted at the last meeting in london , outlines the objectives and procedures which will govern the asem process over the next decade .
in contrast to the last version , the importance of human rights and cooperation in safeguarding the environment have been added , to give just two examples .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , asia is one of the regions of the world where the european union 's potential in terms of political influence has not been fulfilled .
and where the european union has not achieved its full potential it is also possible that it has not assumed its full responsibility either .
that is why the asem process is so enormously important .
i think i can say that the commission largely has parliament 's support in promoting this process .
this is something else that can be achieved through the asem process .
there is still insufficient interest in mutual understanding between these two regions of the world , although economic and trade policy , and a shared interest in a security partnership , do exist .
the successes of the last two summits in bangkok and london cannot disguise the fact that the asem process is not sufficiently dynamic .
but we need more than that if we are to make progress in security policy under the osce process in europe and also as regards territorial issues in asia or human rights and democratic issues in burma and elsewhere , with a view to stabilising the region .
it is also vital for the increasingly important issues of company delocalisations , employment standards and other social issues to be discussed in a social forum which meets at a level comparable with the business forum and which facilitates the dialogue between politicians and the social partners on industrial relations and social standards .
we have organised the first meeting between european and asian members of parliament here in strasbourg .
so a parliamentary dialogue also means the public at large becoming involved in cooperation in civil society .
the treatment of mrs aung san suu kyi , since we have just talked about the british human rights activist james maudsley , is more than enough evidence that we cannot enter into a dialogue with this regime at this stage .
we would rather go into partnership with taiwan , and it would be nice if the people ' s republic of china and the republic of china could take a leaf out of the book of north and south korea in their attempts at conciliation .
mr president , the forthcoming europe - asia summit in seoul offers a valuable framework for dialogue and the strengthening of political , economic and cultural cooperation between the two participating regions .
this in itself offers a very favourable basis for the gradual development of cooperation between the two regions .
the korean peninsula is a source of continuing strategic instability .
there is no political integration , not even the prospect of political integration , between the asean countries , nor should we forget , as i feel some previous speakers seem to have done , that the governments within asean are all very different : we have totalitarian or dictatorial regimes , even hardline dictatorships like china , alongside democratic countries .
it is not , therefore , surprising that there is , in this context , no real integration or genuine political dialogue .
the european union should perhaps look into the problem and return to good , sound bilateral relations which could be appreciably different according to whether they involved a democracy or a dictatorial or totalitarian regime .
let me remind you , ladies and gentlemen , that in the course of the last five years , somewhere between two and four million people have died of starvation under this idyllic regime .
like mr maaten , i feel we cannot carry on ignoring the question of taiwan for much longer , not just in the process underway between taiwan and the people ' s republic of china , but also within international cooperation schemes , even though i am not one of those people who think that these are very effective .
if there is to be any parliamentary cooperation at all , then it must be with such countries and not with the officials of the communist party of china or other countries in the region .
mr president , i would like to thank the commissioner for his input in this debate and for his sound plans .
however , i would like to focus on the political contacts and comment on two countries in that area , namely burma and indonesia .
ten years ago , a military regime pushed the elected president , mrs aung san suu kyi , out of office , dissolved parliament , drove out , imprisoned and even killed numerous members of parliament , and subsequently applied extreme terror in its treatment of the population and minorities .
the european union has taken a number of measures with regard to burma , but to no avail .
not so long ago , mrs aung san suu kyi was once again restricted in her freedom , a number of key fellow party members were rounded up and western human rights representatives found themselves in hot water in burma .
we continue to hope that the military regime in burma will eventually recognise that the only way forward is by dialogue with aung san suu kyi rather than by confrontation .
yet we have seen recently in both northern ireland and the middle east how fragile these peace initiatives can be .
europe can play an important role as honest broker .
i would like to mention the situation between the people 's republic of china and taiwan .
when the japanese members of parliament come to see us in strasbourg in november , mr president , we will ask them to see if the next meeting between members of the european parliament and members of parliament from the asian countries can , if at all possible , be organised in japan .
mr president , first of all , i would like to thank all the speakers for their contributions to the debate and make some brief comments .
with regard to parliamentary cooperation , i would like to remind you that there have been two meetings : one in the philippines and the other in portugal , on cooperation between young parliamentarians , in which european parliamentarians have also taken part .
with regard to indonesia , which has also been an issue of special interest , there is regular dialogue , within the asem , in which we always insist on the need to promote the democratic process and , to this end , president prodi has already sent a message to the indonesian president so that progress may be made on this point .
our political support for timor is clear and we provide what we consider to be significant humanitarian assistance .
mr president , i simply wish to say that , when i referred to the promotion of the democratic process in indonesia , i clearly meant all the problems relating to human rights and , especially , the issue of the moluccas , which is a subject of particular and constant concern .
during the first trans-european network round , the issue of ports remained unresolved .
it has done that and has also extended the proposal to include not only seaports , but also inland ports and intermodal terminals , including project no 8 of the 14 major projects in essen , which is to be modified .
the council has only accepted certain parts of parliament 's proposals and totally departs from parliament 's criteria for interconnection points .
the council wants a maximum of 1 million tonnes without a connection to other trans-european networks .
the result is that an additional 200 smaller ports would be included .
however , this also means that the council has finally accepted that codecision should also apply to the 14 important essen projects .
i would like to comment on amendment no 15 .
my second point is about the competitive situation not only between ports , but also within a single port .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of my group , i wish to thank the rapporteur for some very thorough work with regard to this important issue .
for example , the proposal to raise the volume in tonnes of freight to 1.5 million in respect of seaports and to change the classification of ports will not , in the opinion of our group , serve the development of the trans-european networks .
smaller , important ports and the union ' s internal passenger traffic must also be taken better account of .
with regard to that element of those ports , if you consider the council ' s viewpoint on ports - and this has been put in more than one way - the quantitative criterion used is , in my opinion , too sweeping and too vague , which results in a situation in which some ports in the german wadden area and some in the netherlands , such as the port of scheveningen , which is a small fishing port , have now been elevated to the status of ports which would be required to play a role in the trans-european network .
this report and these amendments , in fact , deal with a number of very different situations .
rotterdam wants to remain the world ' s largest port and competes with le havre , dunkirk , zeebrugge , antwerp , amsterdam , bremen and hamburg for the same cargo volumes .
the transport situations within the different member states are far from identical .
very often , seaports are the first and last ports of call for cargo in europe .
the link with the hinterland can be made in different ways .
firstly , i must say that i come from a group of islands in the mediterranean - as the rapporteur well knows - and we have the impression that the large ports are being promoted , mainly the northern ports as opposed to the southern ports .
having made these points , which are differences of opinion rather than disagreements , it only remains for me to express our support for this report and to congratulate the rapporteur .
the distance from the port of pasajes , in the basque country , to vlissingen , in holland , is approximately the same whether one travels by sea , road or rail .
a cargo of cars and caravans can easily be transported on a small ship of two thousand tonnes , instead of the 204 lorries or 7 trains with 102 wagons which would be required to transport the same load .
it has already been pointed out by almost all those who have spoken that , in effect , the situation with regard to transport - particularly sea transport - and seaports differs widely throughout our union : the situation in northern countries differs from that in southern countries , in terms of dimensions and the volume of freight and passenger traffic .
parliament wants the criterion to be an annual freight traffic volume of 1.5 million tonnes , but it is ridiculous to ignore the potential of ports with a volume of at least 1 million tonnes , especially if they meet the strategic requirements of the trans-european networks .
we should therefore have faith in market forces and give smaller ports a chance too .
mr president , i would like to thank mr piecyk for his work .
we all agree that the trans-european network must be a multimodal network .
we also believe that we all agree that it must include the main points of connection , and that we consider that the current provisions of the trans-european networks on ports are not satisfactory and that strengthening the role of ports within the network will also serve to consolidate the trans-european networks .
i also believe that parliament and the commission agree that inland terminals are an important part of the network and play a fundamental role in the whole process .
nevertheless , there are certain points on which it will be difficult to make progress , since , while we can make progress between parliament and the commission , we should not forget the fundamental role of the council in this decision-making process .
seaports : amendments nos 5 , 9 and 10 .
this point will certainly be the subject of further debate by the council .
the problem of superstructures excluded from community funding : amendments nos 8 and 10 .
the commission can also support these amendments and it is true that , nevertheless , we believe that this debate may raise some difficulties .
we support the aim of the amendments but , nevertheless , we cannot support their wording .
on the one hand , because we believe it is inappropriate to talk about the funding of these guidelines and , secondly , because we do not believe it is necessary to make this reference .
the debate is closed .
this work resulted in the present proposal .
i should point out that , even in countries in which 15-metre buses are officially allowed , in practice they are refused entry or are sent back at the border .
adaptations of the maximum length of rigid buses will very probably bring about a demand for a similar change in legislation for rigid trucks designed to transport goods , although there may be not an overwhelming demand for such vehicles .
the reason is that buses - both inner-city buses and coaches - often have to operate in narrow streets in city centres during the rush hours , when many other vehicles , motorbikes , bikes , and pedestrians are on the road .
the first makes provision for a transitional period during which the use within national territory of buses which are currently permitted but do not comply with the new requirements of the directive will be allowed .
as regards the other two amendments proposed by the socialists , amendments nos 5 and 7 , calling for derogations of up to two years , i consider the transitional period to be excessive .
two and a half years ago the european commission published a report on the use of 15-metre buses and coaches , in which it referred not only to distortions in competition between transport companies in various eu member states , but also , i am pleased to say , offered prospects of greater safety and improved comfort .
furthermore , it is totally in the spirit of subsidiarity that member states are to be granted a long transitional period , up to 2015 to be precise , during which the use within national territory of buses which are currently permitted but do not yet comply with the new requirements of the directive will be allowed .
i would like to thank the rapporteur and to congratulate him , and i ask you to vote for amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 and 6 .
i would say to mr hatzidakis that the 24 months for industry is less than was allowed in the original 1996 directive when the transitional period was four years .
the pse group does not support amendment no 3 , as the proposed new test does not ensure proper manoeuvrability and does not therefore fully meet acceptable safety requirements .
despite this , my group also has reservations about the proposal , namely with regard to article 1 ( 3a ) .
mr president , commissioner , we are debating the subject of buses and the fact that different practices were applied in a number of european countries with permitted lengths ranging from 12 metres to even 15 metres .
if we consider for a moment the subject of longer buses and the environment , then a situation can arise , as depicted by mrs sanders-ten holte , of cheaper and more efficient transport where small businesses may have greater earnings in this field and make more profit .
three axles , as mrs sanders-ten holte indicated , are not always necessary , but what is necessary is to draft a sound directive .
competition , which is a prime mover in the arena of real development , will begin when transport companies can offer cross-border services .
the present directive is inadequate because it leads to too much diversity with regard to buses in the various member states , which will make the drafting of safety standards difficult .
the commission is pleased that the report points out the need to seek a balance between the commercial aspects and those linked to competition and , at the same time , guarantees technical progress on the one hand and safety on the other .
the aim of the text is clear and has already been mentioned here : to establish a uniform regulation for the dimension of rigid buses in transport services .
the current legislation is very varied , very disparate , and there seems to be a clear need for harmonisation .
in order to fully understand what i am going to say with regard to the commission ' s reaction to the various amendments , it should be made clear that the proposal , in our view , aims to authorise a maximum length of 15 metres throughout the european union , provided that two requirements are complied with : firstly , that buses of between 12 and 15 metres have three axles - an important issue which i will discuss later and which has led to some debate - and , secondly , that buses are manoeuvrable , that is to say , that their manoeuvrability is in accordance with community legislation .
we can understand that there may be a debate on whether all buses are the same or not , but we believe that excess detail in relation to specific solutions would , at the end of the day , be the worst formula .
that is the reason why amendments nos 2 and 4 , which seek to reduce that requirement by establishing that the third axle is only obligatory in the case of buses of more than thirteen and a half or even 15 metres , are not acceptable to the commission .
well , the same conditions that are currently laid down in directive 97 / 27 , which also link this test to manufacturing standards .
amendments nos 5 and 7 are not acceptable to the commission either .
accepting amendment no 6 would also cause certain problems , since we do not consider that it has sufficient technical justification .
the commission considers that that exemption is perhaps excessively restrictive and we could accept the idea that the directive would allow them to stay in use until 2015 .
the debate is closed .
this reunification , made possible by the fall of the berlin wall the year before , was not only of great significance to the germans , but also , to the whole of europe as it symbolised reconciliation between the east and the west after 40 years of cold war .
i would like to express , on behalf of parliament , our shared pleasure with our friends in germany in celebrating this anniversary .
madam president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , you expressed the wish that we should devote our efforts today to the forthcoming european council meeting in biarritz , and this will indeed be an important milestone in this half-year presidency of the council .
the biarritz council of 13 and 14 october will come roughly halfway through our presidency ; so work will already be well underway , without any compromises having been reached , and the time will have come to take stock and put down a marker with a view to the nice european council .
however , the french presidency seems to have attained cruising speed , and would appear to have made completely satisfactory progress on the matters in hand ; i am aware that certain observers have been critical , but they doubtless expected too much from us - and this is flattering , but at the same time does not suit us , since a presidency is always too short - only totalling four productive months , i would remind you - and have forgotten that this presidency , just like any other , is subject to many serious constraints .
certain events which have received ample coverage in the press have thus overshadowed the work done in recent weeks .
i refer in particular to the surge in oil prices - and would point out that the members of the european council will also be discussing this issue - and to the fluctuations in the value of the euro and the referendum in denmark .
i can nevertheless assure you that we will continue in our efforts on the basis of the timetable set and i feel that the required results have been achieved .
i take , by way of example , the latest general affairs council , with an initial agreement on meda ii , the continuing debate on increasing the effectiveness of the union ' s external aid , the message to the serbian people , which can be seen to have carried weight in the current situation , and the first progress report ever on the enlargement process , which we will be discussing again this afternoon , in this chamber .
likewise , the informal council of defence ministers held on 22 september gave reason to hope that completely satisfactory results will be obtained by the end of the presidency as concerns the commitment of capabilities .
not to mention the priorities which we have described as citizens ' priorities , since they lie at the heart of the concerns of all the citizens of europe : growth and employment , their children ' s education - this question was discussed at the education council held this weekend - the future of social protection and transport safety amid new circumstances marked by the surge in oil prices .
as i pointed out during the debate held on 11 july at the invitation of mr napolitano , our concern , right from the outset , has been to restart discussions on a more open basis in order to give ourselves every chance of reaching a satisfactory agreement in nice .
we have therefore been keen , on the one hand , to emphasise the link between the three issues that were left unresolved in amsterdam , which in our mind form a whole , a package , and , on the other hand , to take a long look at the major issue of closer cooperation , within the context of an enlarged europe .
your participation is always very important .
you have not failed to point out how vital it was to mobilise efforts in order for these negotiations to progress and a successful conclusion to be reached within the deadlines set .
the presidency , just like the commission , also firmly emphasised , back at the evian ' gymnich ' , the informal meeting of the foreign affairs ministers , in early september , that there was a real risk of failure at nice , and that france , as the country holding the presidency , would prefer to take responsibility for a failure such as this than for a flawed agreement .
this message seems to have got through , but i seemed to detect , at the general affairs council of 18 september and at the mini-meeting i chaired that evening in brussels , real signs of realisation setting in .
in any case , it would seem impossible for a union with twenty , twenty-five or thirty member states to carry on with the current system without it being reformed .
i nevertheless believe - and this is my personal feeling - that substantial progress will take a little longer .
but it is important for the heads of state and government meeting at the biarritz european council to talk about it .
the commission has put forward highly constructive proposals that will enable us to move forward in a manner which addresses the problems raised by each delegation , and i am very grateful to it .
lastly , as concerns closer cooperation , you will be aware that the problem was , and still is to some extent , that many member states saw in this , a priori , a risk of creating a two-speed europe , or even of it being used as a substitute for real progress involving all 15 member states in the field of qualified majority voting .
we have held several in-depth exchanges of views on this issue at ministerial level , and i believe that these have enabled us to clarify the concept of closer cooperation and to dispel the misgivings of those most sceptical .
the parallel debate on the future of an enlarged europe has in its own way made a both positive , and perhaps occasionally negative , contribution to this .
indeed , since a majority of member states would not seem to be contemplating a radical switch towards any other type of , let us say , much more federal institutional model , one cannot but acknowledge that closer cooperation is a fine tool which provides a response to the realistic observation that , in an enlarged europe , not all the member states will always be able , or want , to move forward at the same rate .
there is , of course , still work to be done , particularly as concerns defining the conditions in which principles could be simplified and the conditions for triggering this mechanism made more flexible , while still preserving a number of guarantees .
lastly , the presidency will examine , in agreement with the member states , the possibility of supplementing article 7 of the treaty on european union , notably on the basis of the proposals already put forward by the member states and by the commission .
as you will be aware , the draft charter was formally adopted by the convention yesterday , on 2 october , with the invaluable and highly effective support of parliament ' s representatives .
the committee on constitutional affairs , represented by its chairman , giorgio napolitano , has nevertheless voiced concern over the future of this draft charter and the possibility of incorporating it into the treaties at the nice european council .
i therefore deduce from this question that parliament , or at least its committee on constitutional affairs , endorses the text produced by the convention , with certain reservations of course , at which i can only express pleasure .
we will doubtless have the chance to discuss that text again in greater depth in the debate on its proclamation by the three institutions scheduled to be take place in this chamber in november .
but , before giving a precise answer to the question from the committee on constitutional affairs , i would like to explain why it is that the work done by the convention would seem to constitute a twofold success .
similarly , it is quite remarkable that the convention has worked both in a manner that is completely transparent , and completely interactively with the citizens via the internet .
from this point of view , the charter is firstly , and this is a sufficiently rare thing in our texts for it to warrant a mention , a clear and well-structured document .
the charter is also cogent .
it enshrines many new rights that correspond to the necessary development in our societies , be they the development of technologies , the appearance of new dependencies , or the complexity of our administrative systems .
lastly , i am sure you will understand my delight at the importance that this text accorded to economic and social rights .
putting on my second , my national , hat , i would say that france has argued strongly for this section to be a substantial one , but i have seen that many other member states desired the same thing , which this presidency can only welcome .
the charter guarantees the right to a free education , the right of workers to be informed and consulted , and the right to collective bargaining and action , including the right to strike , the right of protection against any form of unjustified dismissal , the right to social protection , and the ban on child employment .
moreover , the council is yet to address this matter .
i must nevertheless confirm - at least this is my feeling - that a large majority , if not a very large majority , of member states would still seem to oppose its prompt incorporation , which is , of course , a factor that this presidency has to take into account .
i am thus tempted to answer your question with one of my own : should one take the risk of this text - which as i have said is set to become a milestone - being rejected at biarritz , or should one trust in the potency of this charter , which i am sure will establish itself as a reference for values in the european union and a source of inspiration to the court of justice in luxembourg ?
discussions on the future of the charter are , to my mind , closely akin to discussions on the future of europe .
however , there is still a lot of work to be done before embarking on this new phase .
it would seem to be premature to want to outline a timetable for this at the present juncture , and this could also have adverse effects on the negotiations of the igc .
first of all there is the question of improving institutional administration in a union which has 30 member states .
we are already addressing this issue in the context of the current intergovernmental conference , but we are also clearly aware that we will have to go further , a good deal further , in adapting the community method if we are to preserve its essential features .
i touched on this in connection with closer cooperation .
these are not new issues and , above all , we are well aware of how difficult they are .
however , while we are attempting to resolve our own problems we must spare a thought for our friends and neighbours who are facing decisive challenges .
the commission will work alongside parliament and the council to ensure that the european union produces political action which will enable us to remain protagonists in humanitarian and financial matters .
rigour and objectivity are essential if we are to secure the public support which is vital both in the candidate countries and in those countries which are already members of the union .
there is an urgent need in the member states of the union for a debate which will allow the citizens to grasp the full significance of the remarkable episode of history which is unfolding with the rebuilding of a united europe and , at the same time , to become fully aware of the potential benefits to be gained from creating a market of 500 million consumers .
however , there are equally clear signs in the candidate countries of growing concern over the lack of a clear , binding timetable for accession .
if a treaty of nice implementing all the above projects were to be adopted in december , allowing due time for national ratification procedures , the union could be ready for enlargement at the beginning of 2003 .
the consistency of the acquis communautaire and the uniformity of the judicial framework must be preserved .
these reforms are the minimum changes necessary - and i repeat , the very minimum necessary - before enlargement takes place , to ensure that enlargement does not irreversibly impair the union 's ability to act .
equally important for the future of europe - at biarritz and later at nice - will be the debate on the charter of fundamental rights .
the charter will , in fact , become the reference point both for those countries which are already members of the union and those which are preparing for accession .
looking immediately ahead , beyond biarritz and nice , we have a duty to consider our future .
the future of a newly reunited europe is not carved in stone .
i am heartened by the fact that there now seems to be more of a consensus on the need to address these issues than there was when i first raised them in this very chamber this time last year .
its originality lies without doubt in the commission and its right of initiative .
the commission is the melting pot into which the various national interests and tensions are poured , and from which emerge proposals that seek to reconcile these often conflicting interests .
in this way , it provides not only an analysis and synthesis of the issues under consideration but also a starting point for negotiations in which , once national differences have been expressed , the common european interest can be identified .
this executive body , which combines independence with a sensitivity to the balance of powers and interests of all the member states , both large and small , is crucial for the pooling of sovereignty in the community .
however , the role of the commission is necessary for the integration of europe but is not sufficient on its own .
the value of europe derives from an institutional system in which parliament , council and the court of justice play a role which is equally decisive .
the european system is a system of balances in which the smooth running of each institution serves the common interest .
any weakening of one of these institutions weakens the whole .
the european process can only derive its democratic validity from a dual legitimation : the direct legitimation of the european people , as represented by you , the members of the european parliament , and the legitimation of the member states which , in turn , is based on national democratic elections .
we must put an end , once and for all , to the current paradoxical situation in which even the deliberations of the fifteen justice ministers on such sensitive areas as criminal law and police cooperation escape the scrutiny of parliament and the court of justice . ( applause ) in the recent controversy surrounding the events in austria , the compulsion to resist any racist or authoritarian tendencies - a reaction with which i fully sympathise - ended up creating an artificial distinction between the bilateral action of the member states and the action of the union as a whole .
however , i firmly believe that democracy cannot be a matter for subsidiarity : it must thrive at all levels . ( applause ) furthermore , i cannot help thinking that , when a serious problem arises at union level , it should first be debated before this house , which is the centre and expression of our democracy .
i therefore agree that the time has come to open the debate on the distribution of powers between the union and the member states .
in the area of foreign and security policy , the treaty of amsterdam only provided a temporary response to a lasting need .
while i can assure javier solana of the wholehearted support of the commission - and i admire the extraordinary personal commitment which has enabled him to achieve major , unhoped-for results - i have to stress that the present organisational model is not sustainable in the long term . ( applause ) this model confuses the roles of the council and the commission in a way that could jeopardise both struts of the institutional system and exclude parliament from any effective power .
the current situation should be seen as a transitional phase , useful for launching european action in a new area but destined to be reabsorbed into the conventional institutional structure , as happened in similar cases such as schengen .
the current management of economic policy projects an image of europe as indecisive and muddled .
the simple , natural , effective solution is there , under our noses : the commission , acting on a mandate from the council , should be the voice of the union 's economic policy .
in fact , you only have to read the treaty to realise that , while the central bank is the lynchpin of monetary policy , the body responsible for the overall assessment of the european union 's economic policy can only be the commission .
my second example of the risk of fragmentation is the desire expressed by some member states in the intergovernmental conference to amend the treaty to facilitate the creation of agencies upon which the commission can then confer executive powers .
if i say it once again , it is because i genuinely believe that it has never been more true .
the debate about the future of europe in the perspective of enlargement is a healthy and vital one .
we have built a unique system in which the guarantees of the democratic state governed by the rule of law on which our societies are founded also form the basis for the community .
they must continue to guide any further advances in common action at european level .
many people in the world look , full of hope , to our european model and its successes for inspiration .
i would also like to thank mr moscovici for his careful , thorough response to the oral question which i tabled on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs .
secondly , due consideration must certainly be given to the argument of timing - i am familiar with it , minister , and it is a very strong argument - namely the fact that there has not yet been enough time for the issue to be fully explored and that the majority of the member states are currently opposed to the idea .
it is also true that we must have faith - and many of us do - in the power of the charter as such and in its capacity to inspire the decisions of the luxembourg court , but what we are trying to say , mr moscovici , is that the issue of whether and how to incorporate the charter into the treaties cannot be avoided .
to sum up , what we want is to open a discussion on the matter in biarritz and to continue until nice , so that , at nice and even after nice , we will then be able to outline the practical steps to be taken once the intergovernmental conference is over . ( applause ) madam president , mr president of the commission , mr president-in-office , ladies and gentlemen , today we are looking into the future of the european union and we are therefore debating the future of europe .
we declare our solidarity with the elected president vojislav kostunica and all democrats in serbia .
parliament - in any case my group - will stand resolutely at your side if you continue to defend these principles in the future . ( applause ) and now we look towards biarritz .
of course we need to apply the principle of democracy in practice .
this means that the majority of the population must be reflected in a majority vote .
i would also ask , however , that we respect the rights of small countries in the european union and avoid any arrogance on the part of large countries in the european union .
the small countries have their dignity too , and perhaps the outcome of the vote in denmark would have been different if we had behaved differently in connection with one quite specific issue in recent weeks and months . ( applause ) we say yes to closer cooperation .
but this closer cooperation must not exclude anyone .
and it is then for the nation states to determine what should be decided at regional or district level .
we wholeheartedly support what you said in this regard , mr president of the commission .
our group should like to thank roman herzog and for our parliament inigo mendez de vigo , as well as all colleagues from all the groups who have participated in this .
but i expect and hope that you will also find the right way gradually to make these fundamental rights european union law .
this law is the foundation stone for peace in europe .
like the majority of the council , you belong to the political family of francois mitterrand .
and if you do then our family of parties - which was founded on the legacy of konrad adenauer , alcide de gasperi and robert schuman - will also be at your side when it comes to building a common europe .
the biarritz summit is about to take place and i must say , on behalf of my group and of my political family , the party of european socialists , that we consider the work carried out by the convention on the charter of fundamental rights to be a success in terms of what it has achieved and also in terms of the method it has used .
madam president , i believe that the charter currently sends an important message to our citizens and also to the candidate countries .
in relation to the debate on enlargement to follow , my group believes that it is important for us to send a positive message to these countries .
when producing a resolution of 120 sections , the first thing we have to say is that we want the whole of the enlargement process to be carried out in a clear and transparent way , dealing with its needs , but at a sustained pace .
it is important that this parliament sends the message that it is essential to set the timetable at the european council in nice , which needs to be successful .
i really do not understand - i am now addressing the president-in-office of the council - why , when for once we have done something really good and which we are all pleased with , we are going to put the charter on the back burner after nice .
i am not asking for it to be included directly in the treaties but , while we are discussing articles 6 and 7 , we must affirm our community of values .
it is very difficult to explain to our voters that we have done a good job , which we are all very pleased about , but that we are going to put it off until a later date .
i believe that the council and the governments must give serious consideration to what must be the frontispiece to our union .
and that is the charter of fundamental rights .
secondly , with regard to the method , we have not discovered the philosopher ' s stone , but we have realised that this method is democratic , because it is public , transparent , and is allowing the citizens and civil society to follow what we are doing in real time .
the truth is that , after listening to the report of the president-in-office of the council on the development of the intergovernmental conference - he has said it with the discretion and elegance worthy of the presidency , especially if it is french , but he has said that we are in a situation of total stalemate , and has used the term ' paradox ' - i ask myself : could we not apply the convention method to the intergovernmental conferences ? ( applause ) that is a very fundamental question which would resolve many of our problems .
because in the intergovernmental conferences - and we all know this from what they tell us and we have two representatives who are showing great patience - the representatives are limited to following instructions so that the leaders , at the end , simply negotiate during the last five minutes , which produces the type of treaties which we have , which are completely incomprehensible , even to the initiated . ( applause ) i therefore believe that there is a second message which we must direct at our governments when they meet in biarritz and in nice , and that is that the next intergovernmental conference , even this one , could be replaced with the convention method .
thirdly , in relation to the president of the commission ' s comments on the future , i agree on one basic idea : at a time when , unfortunately , there is a debate in which there is talk of a constitution , of federalism , in which we have our heads of state - tomorrow we will have president ciampi - making grandiose claims for the future of europe , i must say that the heads of state and government say many things in favour of europe in public which they appear to resolve in private .
mr president of the commission , it is true that we have to construct for the future on the basis of the present .
we completely agree on this and also on the fact that we have to try to take advantage of that triangle .
i believe that president prodi has understood this , because , if i am not mistaken , he was at the amsterdam summit where the high representative for external policy was created .
now i see that he is arguing for a progressive integration of something which parliament , at that time , argued for before amsterdam .
we are surely heading for a creative crisis in the union .
i believe that , if there is a clear will to resolve the problems , while thinking of our citizens , transparently and publicly , according to community methods , we will finally end up doing something which was asked of us in this very house by a leader with enormous moral authority : president havel told us that we needed a clear constitution which we could explain to our children .
i believe that that can finally help us to guide the future of europe . ( applause ) madam president , mr prodi , this morning has been your finest hour since you took over the leadership of the european commission .
madam president , just for once i would like to begin by thanking the two speakers , both the president-in-office of the council and the president of the commission , for the quality of their interventions .
other speakers have already made the point that we must be mindful of the fact that throughout the european union there is a crisis of confidence in the european institutions .
this crisis of confidence has made itself felt itself in denmark in particular and , even if the result of the vote there can be interpreted in different ways , there can be no doubt that a section of the danish electorate wanted to indicate a certain lack of confidence in the european union , not least in its ineffectiveness and lack of political will in terms of social matters , environmental protection and democratic transparency .
the setting up of the convention represented a major step towards a more democratic europe , insofar as the process breaks with the intergovernmental approach .
i believe that deferring the issue would be the worst possible option , both for the citizens of europe and for the citizens of the candidate countries .
but the way forward certainly does not lie in the centralisation of powers in the hands of the commission .
in my view , it is the institutional system as a whole , including the commission , that should be transformed , and the new factor that must lie at the heart of these changes are the operators that form part of the social movement , the citizens , those people who were notably absent from your speech .
in short , we need politics in the true sense of the word , since it is on this that the future of europe hinges .
madam president , the decision of the danish people on 28 september on participation in the european currency regime will undoubtedly figure at the biarritz european council meeting .
eu member state governments must now seriously reflect on what has happened in denmark .
the danish decision comes two months before eu leaders are to meet in nice to reform existing eu treaties and policies .
it will help consolidate democratic and civil structures in eastern and central europe , expand market economies and help build a european continent at peace with itself .
however , eu member state governments face difficult choices .
we cannot deny that the danish people used the recent referendum as a test of confidence in the structures of the european union .
the referendum in denmark had more to do with the direction of the european union and future political integration than actually participating in the euro currency itself .
however , the point remains the same : namely that the european member state governments , the european commission and the european parliament have a serious battle on their hands to persuade the 370 million citizens of the european union that greater political and economic integration is the way forward for the european union .
mr president , mr prodi , mr moscovici , it is precisely the charter of fundamental rights that will , at biarritz , provide the solutions to institutional problems .
granted , this text may seem commonplace at first sight , but it takes on great meaning in the light of topical events .
we need a sense of perspective , a sense of the proportionality set out in article 48 of the charter , before voicing off from our own standpoint as relatively well off in human rights terms .
let us not violate it before it is even applied .
mr president , judging by what i have heard recently , one could be forgiven for believing that nothing of any great importance happened on 28 september .
this right to difference and to respect is what must underpin any debate on institutional affairs , particularly at biarritz .
unfortunately , this would seem to be the path that the intergovernmental conference wants to follow , by focusing on the extension of qualified majority voting .
let us therefore take advantage of the current discussions within the igc to redefine , at last , a system that has reached its limits .
the current desire to extend qualified majority voting will not bring europe closer to the citizens .
the northern part under french rule has no official recognition whatsoever , despite the clear will of two thirds of the citizens and elected representatives to have a basque departement of its own .
mr president , i wish firstly , as other previous speakers have done , to congratulate president prodi on his speech .
the applause that rounded it off clearly demonstrates that when there is a specific political objective , this parliament can be relied upon to support it .
because he acknowledged something which we are all satisfied with .
mr moscovici has said so very expressively .
the content of the charter is good .
previous speakers have spoken well of the charter because it is a good charter which brings together the classic rights of the nineteenth century and the modern rights of the twenty-first century .
it is a charter for the citizens , who have participated actively in its creation .
the argument of the president-in-office of the council is that there is a risk that the charter will not be accepted by all the member states as legally binding .
but i believe things are changing , mr moscovici .
there are some - the spanish government has said this very clearly recently - who are in favour of incorporating the charter into the treaties .
however , even if what you say is true , and there are some governments who do not want it incorporated into the treaties , i must say very clearly that the citizens of europe and the members of this parliament have the right to know who those governments are .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , the president of the commission has just told us that in matters of democracy there is no room for subsidiarity .
this charter is primarily a charter for the inhabitants of the european union , and i believe that it is also a charter for all those who want to join that union .
i believe that a solution has now been found to this problem .
this charter should form part of the acquis communautaire .
i believe that , as faithful servants of this parliament , we used the mandate , all the mandate but not just the mandate , and i cannot but welcome this .
i also feel , however , that it includes some major advances , and that also means in relation to current texts .
they appear in the chapter on liberty , and in the chapter on equality , and quite rightly so , because this is a good way of promoting these economic and social rights .
as many people have already said , it is one that presupposes that the draft charter currently on the table will remain intact , or that the convention will be asked to rework it .
let me remind you that we have not attempted to launch such an original process since the assizes in rome .
but the difference is that this time around , in my opinion , the method has worked perfectly .
it has not prevented the heads of states and government from giving their own instructions , and from having their representatives work together , but they have been doing so in a transparent manner , under the watchful eye of all the partners who , beginning with parliament , have shown the extent to which they are able , in a process of this type , to perform their duties with a will to working towards and bringing about a result that is of value to everyone .
much has already been said about this and , mr president-in-office of the council , you have just described the extent to which the intergovernmental conference has been involved in amending article 7 .
finally , it should request the commission to launch a widespread campaign to inform the public of this great project .
can you even proclaim rights in earnest without enshrining them in law ?
each article of this charter is already enshrined in international conventions , in the constitutions of the member states , in international law or in eu treaties and protocols .
mr president , i have to say that it was certainly a moving moment yesterday when the convention was able to adopt the draft charter in brussels .
the charter of fundamental rights is indeed an important political project for the future of the european union .
it makes the rights of the public in respect of the bodies and institutions of the european union transparent , and it closes a loophole in the protection of people 's fundamental rights .
we are seeking in vain to establish a right to a fair remuneration , despite the fact that this has been established by all states in the 1961 social charter .
on the other hand , i do also recognise the strengths of the charter .
the level of protection of the public 's fundamental rights will match that in the european convention on human rights and will even guarantee a greater level of protection .
for example , i could imagine a referendum being held in all our countries in 2004 alongside the european elections to ask the people whether the charter should become an integral part of the treaties .
mr president , in the referendum on the euro last week the danes said no to the europe of integration , no to the europe of the super-state , and yes to a europe of diversities , yes to a europe that respects national democracies .
the biarritz council and , three months hence , the nice council , which are to discuss the european institutions , must draw a significant conclusion from this .
the response to enlargement is not increased supra-nationality , or an increase in powers , seated in brussels , that are binding on all the member states of the union or even just on certain states that have joined together to form a hard core .
my compatriots voted for the single currency in 1992 because they had been told that this could work without a super-state .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , as president prodi will remember , the italian radicals voted against his appointment last year .
you have highlighted - and i applaud you for this - all the shortcomings of the process of european integration which have hitherto come to light and the implications for nice if the method and spirit which , sadly , have pervaded recent intergovernmental conferences continue to prevail .
president prodi , as other speakers have already said , the commission needs to firmly reassert its role as the driving force behind european integration , and today , you have set down the broad guidelines for this .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , the questions which mr napolitano asked the council and commission on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs bear witness to a view of the charter , which , unfortunately , our group is unable to share .
it is quite unnecessary for this charter to be established when it comes to stepping up the protection of fundamental rights in europe .
this is also the view of experts in the field of european constitutional law .
a legally binding charter is not only unnecessary , it even threatens to harm the enforcement of the fundamental rights .
as a group for a europe of democracies and diversities , we hope , however , that such a federal state will never see the light of day .
i see three benefits in it .
the first has been the method selected , that of the convention , which took the form of a judicious blend involving the competent representatives at national and european level , even if there was an extra guest at the table , as commissioner vitorino underlined .
the three musketeers were in fact four , but they have indeed enabled a method to be set in place that we should turn to in the future to move matters forward within the european union .
the second benefit has been the work carried on by the committee .
the quality of those who have spoken before me makes it unnecessary to linger on this point , but it is true that there is a real added value .
the first responsibility concerns our comments .
the second responsibility is that of adopting the charter .
lastly , the third responsibility is to follow up on this charter , and we must show tenacity in this regard .
we have voted , by a very large majority , for a resolution that calls for this charter to be incorporated into the treaties .
the end result is therefore a text that will be of great value within europe , as many people have stressed .
lastly , with regard to the world outside europe , i believe that human rights are the true message to come out of europe .
however , today , the charter is essentially a symbol , the symbol of the passage from the europe of the single market to the political europe , from the europe of states to the europe of the citizens .
the debilitating semi-secret or confidential negotiations which characterise the intergovernmental method do not produce the same results .
now , this symbolic document is a milestone in the process of constitutionalising the european union - for , in my opinion , the union ' s constitution will not come into being in a single document all in one go , but will be the result of the gradual consolidation of the common institutions and the definition of shared fundamental rules - and it must become practically enforceable law .
in the member states , we are all waiting for the council of ministers to show the political courage and will really to reform current cooperation .
the eu will never be ready , but the candidate countries must participate actively in future discussions .
the convention method is perhaps more suitable than these intergovernmental conferences we have had in the past .
it is quite true that it is an improvement on an intergovernmental conference , but - take note , ladies and gentlemen - even the convention was forced to achieve consensus on every single word and , in the end , particularly during the concluding phase , it turned into a sort of intergovernmental conference ii : our praesidium had to negotiate with the member states instead of , or as well as , members of parliament .
many european citizens are questioning the point reached by the union , its objectives and even the logic of integration .
we say that there is a crisis of confidence with regard to the institutions , and i feel that this crisis is due in particular to the disparity between the expectations of society and the ability to live up to them .
following on from what my fellow member , mr wurtz , has said , i would like to stress the extent to which the vital reform of the institutions should address the issue of making the union more democratic .
europe is in danger of being defeated by compromises , not crises .
these are two different results which , however , i feel are closely related and herald new times .
on the other hand , the result , which we fully respect , may be an indication that the citizens do not yet feel in tune with the european ideal .
the problem may well be a general one .
the internal borders of today and the single currency of tomorrow are certainly useful , necessary symbols which will affect citizens ' everyday lives in a practical way and contribute to reinforcing the european ideal , but they will not fulfil the citizens ' call for greater heed to be paid to their views and for greater representation of their interests and , above all , of their hopes for the future .
as we know , the objectives set at the current intergovernmental conference do not meet this demand fully , although the reform of the weighting of votes and the extension of qualified majority voting are steps in this direction .
for a long time now , we have been talking about a post-nice period during which institutions and operating procedures need to be reformed more effectively , also and especially with a view to enlargement .
the convention was a europe-wide success in terms of the formula adopted , the significant results achieved within the time allowed and the sense of accountability shown by all the participants .
mr president , i too am proud of the text of the charter which is being submitted to the biarritz council .
i have argued strongly in favour of including social , economic and cultural rights alongside the traditional fundamental rights .
commissioner vitorino knows exactly what i am referring to .
naturally , the charter must be incorporated into the treaty and it should form the basis of a european constitution in future .
but some member states need slightly more time to get used to the idea .
i think it is a realistic timetable to propose a project for the future of europe under that presidency , and the charter will have a role to play in this .
mr president , mr president of the commission , mr president-in-office of the council , ladies and gentlemen , this is an important passage in the history of europe , in the history of the world as well as of the union .
the drawing-up and approval of the charter of fundamental rights , together with an intergovernmental conference which may lead to decisive changes and enlargement are historic events which may leave their mark on the start of this new century .
the dilemma in the hearts of a great many citizens who want a political europe , not just a great trading entity , is this : if the intergovernmental conference fails to produce the desired reforms , should we still proceed with enlargement ?
we must allow everyone to follow his own political project in the union , in a harmony of differences which , after all , has already proved to be a winning solution in the history of the european union .
it adds nothing over and above what is at present implied in the eu ' s , the member states ' and the council of europe ' s policy in this area .
the charter can therefore only be seen as an attempt to transfer responsibility for citizens ' rights from the institutions in which they at present reside to the european union .
it is aimed only at driving the eu towards a federal constitution .
mr president , the result of the danish referendum ought to be understood free from false interpretations .
it is not a sign that a majority of danes are saying ' no ' to european cooperation or that the danes are not carefully informed about the ins and outs and development plans of the european union .
a majority of danes have said ' no ' , as they did in 1992 and 1993 , to more european integration , ' no ' to surrendering more sovereignty and ' no ' to the tools which serve these purposes , that is to say the euro , majority decision-making and a european constitution .
what i would also call for , however , is to look beyond immediate concerns in biarritz .
we know all too well that the present treaties are inadequate and that the union will need a better and different structure in future , a more constitutional structure which clearly distinguishes the powers of the member states and those of the union .
i would first of all like to thank mr roman herzog and mr inigo mendez de vigo for their sterling work and for the way compromises were struck time and again .
mr president , i would like to end by making a final remark on professor prodi ' s cry from the heart .
our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium .
it offers an important message to our citizens and to surrounding countries about the constitutional principles upon which our countries are founded .
our european identity and community of values will be strengthened .
this individual protection is an important basis for enlargement of the union - the eu ' s priority for the next few years .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , rarely can a presidency of the european union have been so burdened with challenges and chock-full of events .
these challenges are , in essence , the intergovernmental conference and the preparation for enlargement , which are of course interconnected .
the events are the problems currently being experienced by the euro , the surge in oil prices and , on a different level , the hopes for a transition towards democracy in yugoslavia .
these are , first and foremost , messages of concern at the economic and social problems that we are experiencing , in spite of a period of sustained growth stemming from years of efforts by all our fellow citizens .
these are , as we know , very tricky negotiations and raise fears of a setback or a watered-down agreement in nice which , as you have already acknowledged , mr moscovici , would be even more serious .
mr president , mr president of the commission , mr president-in-office , ladies and gentlemen , in experiencing the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights in the european parliament we are seeing history in the making .
the completion of this work is an important milestone in the history of the european union , particularly for the people who live there .
the intergovernmental conference - to address a third subject - on the reform of the european institutions is also of decisive significance for us in parliament .
provision for social , cultural and charitable causes must be included in article 87 so that the future of these important institutions can also be permanently safeguarded .
we have to pay particular attention to relations between the people and the union ' s institutions .
despite the demands made here today in this house , it would appear that the charter is not going to be made legally binding , but is merely to be a political declaration .
an agreement on procedures in itself is a good thing , but we must make sure that the system cannot be used as a political weapon .
the drafting of a european charter of fundamental rights is an important and necessary step towards a europe which is close to the people .
some people think that it is possible to create an internal market in europe without agreeing on fundamental values and principles .
the majority of the european parliament has never supported this view .
for example , with the directive on patenting biotechnological inventions - which was , of course , supposed to be primarily an internal market directive - we did not allow this directive to be adopted without fundamental ethical principles being enshrined in it , and without particular techniques which offend against human dignity being prohibited from patenting .
where modern genetic engineering is concerned , in particular , this was an important step towards establishing common values in europe .
the charter is a further - certainly much more important - step .
but the draft is worth improving precisely in respect of the protection of human dignity and the protection against its abuse by modern technologies .
the wording is imprecise in some places , and i am particularly concerned that article 3 of the draft charter only prohibits the reproductive cloning of human beings .
commissioner busquin very kindly assured me of this once again in a letter this week , and that is why it is dangerous for us now to be weaker in the charter than in existing european union legislation .
secondly , it lies in its transparency for the public , who now know what rights they have in respect of those who create and apply european law , and in its transparency for those who do precisely that , draft or apply european law .
the charter therefore guarantees a greater level of protection than the european convention on human rights - this needs to be said to all those who are asserting the opposite here in the plenary - and it formulates political and social rights in a balanced way .
it is the first declaration of human rights of the new millennium and the most modern charter of human rights available anywhere in the world .
i have of course noted - and this is cause for great satisfaction - that the european parliament is almost unanimously content with the charter .
that lends great weight to this text , and to the european council as concerns furthering the charter .
i agree with him on the need to maintain the institutional balance and enhance the role , in political terms , of both the commission and the council .
i agree with him that the commission must continue to play a pivotal role as guardian of the common interests of the community .
there are certain areas in which the sovereignty of the member states could not be called into question without this conflicting with the spirit of european integration .
the first concerns the common foreign and security policy , and the suggestion to integrate the high representative for cfsp into the commission .
perhaps one day we will have to abolish this function , but that day has not yet come .
the second slight difference concerns the euro .
the recent fluctuations in this currency have revealed the need for a more political style of governance , of management .
for all that , we should not , i feel , steer clear of strong intergovernmental cooperation , cooperation in respect of economic policies , when seeking solutions .
that is why i believe it is very important for the chairman of the eurogroup - which we chose to set up - to continue to play a full role in this area .
but we must reach agreement on what to put in this constitution .
he was quite right to emphasise the distance we have travelled since the fall of the wall and the reunification of germany ten years ago .
i hope now that democracy has gained a foothold in serbia .
mr baron crespo emphasised that the charter was a fine document and one to be proud of .
i believe that we must not forget , quite simply , that some member states - it is not my job to name them - have already had to overcome considerable resistance and reluctance in getting this text accepted , which is why i am being , if not prudent , then at least patient , as i believe is necessary .
i could mention , for example , the social agenda which is a priority for us , or the setting in place of something that i would not call an economic government , but economic governance , to address these problems .
i will end by saying let there be no doubt but that the french presidency intends to give the european parliament all the attention it deserves , and that i will be in this chamber on 24 october to report on biarritz .
i would add that we want to work in the complete transparency you desire , and to carry on with the regular exchanges that we have held with you since july .
i delivered this speech today because i can see that the hazards which have combined in recent months to threaten europe have aroused in us a common determination with the potential to produce tangible results in the future .
however , we cannot stop here : in addition to making the solemn political proclamation of the charter , we need to assume a clear position regarding its incorporation into the treaty of the union .
i therefore hope that the nice european council will associate itself with this project and decide to launch it as a practical project rather than an accomplished fact once , of course , the reforms of which we are currently in need have been adopted .
i have therefore defined not only the major role of the commission but the roles of all the institutions and i have also stressed - and i reiterate this once again because it is even more important - the need to mobilise the people and their consciences .
i have been coherent and firm in my intentions but also realistic , outlining the stages of what can be achieved today and what must wait until tomorrow .
i certainly do not want to go overboard on this point , but i was pleased to note that in the sydney olympics , the first dope-free olympics - i am informed - and therefore olympics which we can define in the spirit of de coubertin , the 15 countries of the union won 239 medals and the united states of america only 97 .
the debate is closed .
we do not want researchers to suffer because of there being insufficient regard for human rights in chechnya , and i would ask that we send out a signal here , a signal of openness towards russia and openness towards cooperation .
only if we bind russia to the west and to the european union will we also be able to bring an influence to bear on its policies and remain in contact and in discussion with russia .
amendments nos 10 , 11 and 15 are acceptable in principle .
he is currently continuing this genocide and moreover he is also trying to completely eliminate the freedom of the media and the rule of law in russia , which , as it is , barely exist . . ( it ) i abstained in the vote on the proposal for a decision concluding the agreement between the european community and the government of the russian federation because the proposal fails to deal with the extremely important area of cooperation over the removal of antipersonnel mines and the conversion of the firms which produce them .
this is a particularly important point , also in view of past dealings between russian and italian firms , such as , for example , those directed by the former senator claudio regis , a well-known manufacturer of criminal devices such as these .
it is , however , essential for the procedures for drawing up these national accounts , both in the transactions described and the institutional sectors summarised , to be identical from one country to the next .
in the case in point , the amendment of the 1996 council regulation before us , the commission proposes to register taxes and contributions by taking account primarily of the revenue actually collected , rather than the tax calculated as due on the basis of the taxable event .
the commission also proposes to apply a coefficient to the ' non collectable ' percentage in order to avoid understating the true level of deficit , compared with the maastricht requirements .
piecyk recommendation for second reading ( a5-0232 / 2000 ) mr president , before i left for strasbourg to come to this part-session , a pensioner from cremona , a town in the po valley on the river po , asked me to tell him when it would at last be possible to sail on the po .
in order to do something to meet the expectations of this pensioner , who is called giuseppe italia , lives in cremona and would love to be able to sail on the po , i voted for the piecyk report , which concerns the expansion and development of sea and inland ports and intermodal terminals .
we did not , consequently , vote in favour of this report . . ( fr ) our report discusses a proposal amending council directive 96 / 53 / ec with a view to authorising buses with a length of 15 metres for circulation within the european union .
in that sense one can say that this proposal formalises an existing situation .
a 15-metre bus can take some 67 passengers , i.e. 16 more than a 12-metre bus .
it is therefore entirely justifiable that a number of eu member states only permit buses up to 12 metres .
mr president , i voted for the skinner report , as i explained during the debate before the vote , because i feel that risk capital is important .
the heads of state and government therefore agreed a number of measures to promote the development of risk capital in the european union , with a deadline for implementing the risk capital action plan of 2003 .
the commission communication is an acknowledgement that concrete measures need to be taken to create a genuinely european and highly liquid risk capital market in the eu .
in reality , they often have more in common with gamblers who hope to tap into goldmines .
resolution " charter on fundamental rights " ( b5-0767 / 2000 ) mr president , on behalf of my group i want to state that the implementation of a new eu charter of fundamental rights will certainly raise the status and visibility of human rights in the european union .
it is stated in article 6 of the treaty of amsterdam that fundamental rights exist within the union and must be respected .
citizens from the candidate countries in central and eastern europe can also draw inspiration from such a charter .
however , we should recall that the european convention on human rights , which all member states have signed and adopted in their national law , has now been operating for nearly 50 years and works hand in hand with the un declaration on human rights .
the citizens from member states of the countries of the echr have confidence in this convention and jurisprudence has built up around it .
our primary concern with regard to the charter of fundamental rights is that it must not conflict with the european convention .
the most difficult problem facing this new charter is not its actual content but whether it has legal status .
a binding and all-embracing charter with completely legally enforceable rights could result in difficulties at a later stage .
this is not , however , the case for basic rights such as the right of all employees to strike or join unions .
it is important that the charter addresses three audiences .
firstly , it addresses our citizens and tells them that this is not a europe that simply does things to them but does things for them and respects their rights in carrying out its activities .
i hope that the heads of government and the heads of state meeting in biarritz will take this seriously and consider making it a binding document but if not , at the very least , ensure at nice that it becomes a declaration annexed to the treaty of the european union .
mr president , i voted in favour of this charter , not least because of the influence which our colleague , ingo friedrich , and professor herzog have exerted on its content .
but it has to be said that this charter is a step in the right direction .
hence our " yes " in the hope that this is only a first step and that improvements can be made in the next few years .
mr president , i abstained from the vote on the resolution on the charter of fundamental rights of the european union because i consider that this charter is still extremely unsatisfactory , despite some progress .
if , as i hope , this article becomes part of the treaty of nice , the elderly will at last be protected by a constitutional charter of fundamental rights .
we are pleased to note that the convention has succeeded in producing a draft charter .
we believe that , as a political document , the charter is a good point of departure for this wholly necessary dialogue , which is now about to begin .
we do not , however , believe that the latter can be concluded in nice in less than three months , for which reason alone we cannot vote in favour of incorporating the charter into the treaty at the nice summit . . ( fr ) scarcely has the ' body ' entrusted by the cologne council with the task of drafting the charter of fundamental rights completed its work than all the federalists , particularly in this house , go into collective raptures about the results .
as a member of the european parliament delegation to this body , having worked , together with my fellow members , on the matter for eight months , i must say that the charter of fundamental rights could well , in fact , have represented an added value for europe but that , as things stand at present , we can derive no satisfaction from either its content or the working methods which governed its drafting .
as i stated in the proposal i submitted to the praesidium of the body , from the start of the work , peoples ' rights are already adequately protected in europe , both by the national legal systems and by the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms , which is an extension of these .
a text of this type would be extremely useful , not just in re-establishing the true meaning of democracy , but also in making the institutions ready for the future enlarged europe .
we cannot conceive of a political declaration at the european level which does not make any mention of the key role of the national democracies , the rights they enshrine , nor of the implications for european institutions .
the convention was thus a muddled system , generating irresponsibility , and not particularly favourable to well-ordered democracy .
the final adoption of the draft charter intended for submission to the council , on 2 october this year , represented a monumental work of ambiguity , since apparently a number of members agreed on condition that it was a political declaration , whereas others agreed on condition that it was a binding text , and they skirted around this critical divergence in the same way that they skirted around the existence of an opposition to which i myself belonged .
president roman herzog was therefore able to officially convey the final draft to the french presidency in readiness for the biarritz summit .
the european parliament will give its opinion on this text at a later date by giving their formal assent .
we already expressed this desire when we voted on the last resolution on this subject on 16 march 2000 .
that is why i voted in favour of this resolution and supported the amendment tabled by the chairwoman of the french socialist delegation , pervenche beres , urging the biarritz summit to ask the igc to examine all the ways in which the charter might be incorporated into the treaty , as a preamble , protocol or a reference to the charter enshrined in article 6 , which stipulates that the european union is based on the principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms , as well as on the notion of the rule of law .
that would be an interim solution which would make it possible to work towards a binding charter in the long term .
i am thinking of the inclusion of such rights as the right to strike , the right to work , the implicit reference to european trade unions , the entitlement to housing allowance .
certainly , the content of this charter must be improved .
the charter aims to provide comprehensive protection of people 's fundamental rights and different sections go completely or partly beyond the jurisdiction of the eu .
we reject the fundamental rights included in the charter which are appropriate but which do not justify granting the eu corresponding powers or conferring on it a duty to protect or act .
the csu 's europe group supports the horizontal provision which makes it clear that no new powers are being established for the community or the union .
this charter lags some way behind the european convention on human rights , and behind national conventions or treaties .
on subjects as basic as women ' s rights , immigrants ' rights , the right to education , the right to accommodation , the right to employment or a decent wage , this charter is often inadequate and occasionally retrogressive .
because social rights are fundamental rights for a europe that respects democratic and social rights and freedoms , we champion the idea of another charter to protect workers , women , foreigners , those excluded from society , national minorities .
because we think that the process of european integration warrants a genuine democratic public debate , there can be no political construction of europe without social rights or democracy .
this is why i did not vote in favour of this draft charter .
i shall be voting for an alternative charter by participating in the demonstrations in biarritz on 13 and 14 october and in nice on 7 december 2000 . . ( it ) we are aware that the process of institutionalising the union also requires definition of the concept of european citizenship and the institution of common values such as freedom , governability and stability .
yet we are somewhat perplexed by the combined effect which would be produced by the charter having binding authority over the community countries , as the european parliament requested on 26 march of this year , and the as yet incomplete and inorganic content of even the last draft presented , despite the commendable amount of work put in .
i would indeed have like to have seen a moratorium on this charter to enable work to continue on it , as a great many non-governmental organisations in the various countries of the european union have proposed .
on many points this charter lags behind the advances made regarding rights and freedoms in france and in other european union countries , and many international texts .
i believe that it has become clear to all of us , following president prodi 's excellent speech , that the european union 's ability to reform and success in nice are essential prerequisites for the european union to move forward quickly .
we think that decisions need to be made in nice on those issues which are necessary for enlargement , even if this means not addressing all those issues which remain to be resolved - and which it is desirable that we resolve - in connection with reforming the european union .
this report needs to be viewed in a similar light .
in this report too , which i am presenting to you , there are a number of points which it is desirable that we in the european union - but also the accession countries - address , but not all of them are conditions for accession to the european union , because the conditions for accession to the european union are clearly set out in the copenhagen criteria .
the european parliament would nevertheless like to say that accession to the european union is conditional upon the copenhagen criteria being satisfied in full .
it must be clear that all of these conditions have to be met .
furthermore , it must also be clear that democracy and the rule of law are in fact the condition for negotiating and that other conditions simply have to be satisfied in the course of the negotiations , and here we do of course realise that - in the interests of the accession applicants as well as in the interests of the european union - we will have to agree transitional arrangements in a series of sectors , as we have always done with accessions .
that is why it is also wrong at the present time to mention the names of countries which look today as though they are in a position to fulfil the requirements , because for internal political reasons a country which is in a good position today might fall back again next year , or vice versa .
that is why i should like to propose to you that from next year we in parliament no longer present a general report at all but only country reports , to make it clear that we wish to see the negotiations proceed at differentiated paces .
i think that this is a good proposal which should be supported , and an equally good proposal is that from the european people 's party stating that if possible the first countries should be able to participate in the european parliament elections in 2004 .
i am convinced that some countries will be in a position to prepare themselves adequately within that time .
when i consider that it is already eleven years since the revolution in central and eastern europe then we must also give these people the prospect of the process of change bearing fruit at some point .
i think therefore that holding out the prospect of accession to the people is essential , so as to encourage these countries to develop the enduring strength to push through political and economic reforms of the necessary magnitude .
the political , economic and security policy stability which the enlargement of the european union will bring is something which i certainly do not need to mention .
on the other hand - and people hardly dare to say this - in recent years our balance of trade surplus with the accession countries has been greater than the public aid which we have granted these countries .
we have the opportunity to create a new order in which no one loses their identity and whose wealth is derived from the diversity of its people .
we will also be able to fashion an order in which war between us becomes impossible , in which people are able to discover each other in their common humanity and in which we can combine our strengths to represent our interests in the world , that is to fight for our common cause as europeans in the world .
i feel , then , that on the basis of the work undertaken by previous presidencies and by the commission , the french presidency will be in a position , or so i hope , at least , to offer a quite precise overview of the accession process at the european council in nice .
i therefore propose , in order to make a useful contribution to this debate , to tell you quite specifically what the french presidency is doing during these six months to achieve the results i have just mentioned .
with this in mind , let me firstly remind you that we plan to organise for each candidate country two negotiation meetings for alternate members and one at ministerial level , split into two phases , on 21 november and 5 december , back-to-back with the meetings of the general affairs council .
the french presidency will immediately inform the committee which you chair , mr brok , of the result of these negotiations , come tuesday afternoon , according to the tradition that has developed between us .
this means , then , that each candidacy must be assessed and shall be assessed , in short , on its own merits .
that is why , just like the european parliament , the french presidency wished to have access to the tracking schedules for monitoring adoption of the acquis , updated regularly , it being understood that the basic principle of the negotiations must continue to be the wholesale adoption of the acquis .
as you know , the candidates have expressed a number of requests to this effect .
this , moreover , is a sign that the accession negotiations have clearly entered a new phase and that henceforth , as the french presidency wishes , we should go into substantive discussions .
in this respect , i should like to point out that the council has , on the basis of an initial document from the commission , initiated a consultation process which should enable the european union to make progress in the negotiations .
i am , of course , thinking of the common agricultural policy and the regional development policies .
by the end of our presidency , half of the chapters of the acquis will have been opened to negotiation .
obviously the work carried out by each of the rapporteurs and by the parliamentary committees will serve a useful purpose in providing fuel for our own discussions .
let me now mention the second guideline along which the presidency hopes the enlargement process will develop in these six months .
i have just mentioned the very important technical work under way for three years now and i have also said that , with regard to at least some candidate countries , we shall very shortly have a quite precise overview of the remaining problems .
we think the time has come to take this work to a more political level by combining all the information available to us .
that is why we are organising a substantive ministerial debate , which will take place at the general affairs council on 20 november on the basis of the precise documents to be provided by the commission concerning , in particular , the candidate countries ' adoption of the acquis and the progress that each of them have made .
regarding the basis of this debate , the presidency will have the necessary elements available to enable the heads of state and government in nice to have a serious discussion regarding the continuation of the enlargement process .
this too is the spirit in which the french presidency has decided to organise two meetings of the european conference , bringing together the 15 member states and the 12 + 1 candidate countries - twelve that have already entered into negotiations and one candidate .
one of these meetings will be at ministerial level , on 23 november this year , in sochaux , and the other will involve the heads of state and government in nice on 7 december .
these meetings will be primarily an opportunity to inform the candidate countries of the state of progress in the reform of the institutions , which is of great interest to them as it concerns the european union that they will be joining but also , of course , to initiate a political discussion with these countries regarding the operation of the enlarged european union .
this date of 1 january 2003 is by no means a random choice .
the date of 1 january 2003 , which is the only one on which the european union has agreed , is , however , both for the candidates and for ourselves , an extremely ambitious objective and this is the deadline to which the presidency will be working .
it is true , however , that the work which has been undertaken , and which we wish to boost , should make it possible , by the end of the year 2000 , both to have a better appreciation of the overall balance in each of the negotiations and also , at least for the most advanced candidate countries , to clearly identify the problems to be resolved as a priority in order to bring these negotiations to a successful conclusion .
finally , let me say a brief word on turkey which , as far as the european union is concerned , is now clearly part of the enlargement process and is the thirteenth candidate for accession .
at the same time , we are well aware of the continuing obstacles to this accession , starting with the issues related to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in this country .
admittedly there has been some progress , but they are still a long way from fulfilling the copenhagen criteria .
enlargement is our future , on condition that the acquis communautaire and the common policies which we all value highly are not thereby weakened or watered down .
i am quite ready , of course , to follow the very important debate we are all involved in here today .
mr president , mr president-in-office , honourable members , i welcome the opportunity for an in-depth debate on progress in and prospects for negotiations on the enlargement of the european union .
the development of europe has entered a phase in which , now more than ever , we need clear objectives and decisive action .
i should therefore like to establish straight away that the cornerstone which will allow the enlargement project to be completed is agreement on the institutional reforms of the eu .
a successful outcome to the intergovernmental conference in nice in december will pave the way for more pro-active negotiations .
enlargement is the only answer to the two main historical changes which we have witnessed in our lifetime .
the soviet empire gave the impression of being stable both to the outside world and internally for decades , but this stability had long been rotten and crumbling , precisely because it was not based on democracy , the rule of law , human rights and the protection of minorities .
it is no coincidence ; on the contrary , it is virtually a cast-iron rule that we only have peace and stability in europe where these values have been put into practice and where europe is already unified or is in the process of unifying .
peace and stability in europe are the basis for a happy future for all the people of europe .
the second major change which we are witnessing and to which europe must adjust is the meteoric speed at which the economy is moving towards a global market and global competition .
a larger community will have more weight when it comes to mastering global tasks .
the advantages are already there ; they are visible and everyone stands to gain .
i am firmly convinced that , without the prospect of european integration , the systems of central and eastern europe would not have been changed as quickly or as successfully .
but they have also done so because the prospect of membership of the european union gives them hope of solidarity with the people of europe and because they are being offered a firm political and economic foothold .
we are achieving high foreign trade surpluses with all these countries .
that translates into higher tax revenues , higher national insurance contributions and , most importantly , more jobs .
the forecasts for growth in the area as a whole are extremely auspicious .
the terms luxembourg group or helsinki group are merely technical terms in order to differentiate between the countries invited to enter into negotiations in luxembourg in 1997 and those which did not join until helsinki in 1999 .
the commission will be presenting its progress report for the year 2000 and a new strategy paper on 8 november .
a number of countries have made such good progress with the second economic criterion of their ability to compete in the single market that they are fast reaching the point at which they are ready for accession .
obviously , changes in this area take longer than elsewhere .
the work of creating institutions and structures is not yet finished .
i should like to clear up a misunderstanding which sometimes creeps in when we talk of the pace of negotiations .
all outstanding chapters , with the exception of institutions and miscellaneous were opened with the countries in the luxembourg group during the portuguese presidency : a total of 174 .
at least 84 chapters will have been opened with the countries in the helsinki group by the end of the french presidency , i.e .
on 8 november , the commission will present more detailed thoughts on the principles which should inform how we deal with derogations and how the corresponding decision-making process should be organised .
where major , long-term investments are needed in order to attain eu standards , we must bear in mind that even the present members claimed long transitional periods in such cases .
as regards the current situation in the monetary union , i should like to remind the house that monetary union forms part of the treaty and , hence , part of the negotiations .
i should also like to say a few words on a subject which is very close to my heart : how best to sell the project " enlargement in the societies of the member states and candidate countries " to the public .
we must help border regions to make use of the new opportunities and meet the new challenges .
the commission is already working on the relevant proposals .
there will be no environmental or social dumping because the new members will have to adopt our standards .
enlargement is also good for the level of social security in europe .
every year - and this is shortly to happen again , on 8 november - each candidate country awaits with bated breath the judgement of the commission with regard to the progress made .
this process also bears the hallmarks of a technocratic process , where the political aspects can quite easily be overlooked in amongst the abundance of detail and criteria from the european commission report .
helmut kohl , together with the german parliament and german politicians , have made every effort to anchor germany in the european union , so that earlier fears expressed by neighbouring countries with regard to a reunited germany having too much power , have fortunately proved unfounded .
the wish of the people to end the artificial division of europe should remain a source of inspiration to us all in the enlargement process .
the commission report is right in pointing out that all candidate countries have experienced major reform - and must do so in future .
let us therefore testify to the enormous efforts that these countries in central and eastern europe have made .
we were right in opting for the principle of differentiation , whereby each candidate country is assessed on its own merits .
we are constantly saying that a great deal needs to be done at the igc in nice , that our own people have certain fears and that lengthy negotiations are still needed .
we expect the first candidate countries to join before 2004 so that they can take part in the 2004 elections and they can participate as fully-fledged members in the new igc round on the european constitution , for example .
and finally , i would welcome a debate on transitional periods in the european union .
let this be a guiding example to us during the next two to three years .
mr president , mr brok 's report is an excellent description of the european parliament 's position .
my group will give it its unanimous support .
this debate is a further opportunity for my group to reaffirm its view that the accession of the central and eastern european countries , but also of cyprus and malta , is the best way of safeguarding the future for all of us in europe both in the east and in the west .
the sooner we achieve this , the better it will be for all of us .
this is no accident , because it shows that the large groups in this house and the vast majority of this house are acting in concert where this issue of the future of the european union is concerned , and that we all agree that we want the same thing .
we acknowledge the huge efforts which the central and eastern european countries are making to be ready for accession .
but these disparities are also related to the different starting points at which they began the process of converging with the european union .
we know that the central and eastern european countries will not be able to meet all of the eu 's standards by the day of accession .
transitional periods are possible and necessary , for example for the free movement of capital , for the free movement of workers , for meeting certain environmental standards which require major investment and for a series of other points .
neither can there be a transitional period for securing the external borders if we want to have open borders within the european union .
my group would also like to emphasise one further point : the future member states have undertaken to decommission first-generation nuclear power stations of soviet design .
the progress and efforts being made in central and eastern europe give us hope that the first accession treaties will still be able to be ratified in the european parliament in this parliamentary term .
i am convinced that we can manage this and also that we should manage it .
it does presuppose , however , that the european union will keep its own promise to be ready for enlargement from 1 january 2003 .
nice must deliver a substantial reform of the institutions of the european union .
yes , it is true : after 2006 it will be necessary to reform the structural funds and the support available under the structural funds .
but it is also true that in the financial perspective up to 2006 eur 68 billion is provided for ; no less , but no more either .
with this eur 90 billion the eastern europeans , not us , are funding tens of thousands of jobs in the european union .
this too is part of the debate on enlargement .
and that is why we call on the commission to table a study , a kind of cecchini report , on what non-enlargement would cost .
this too would be a useful and important input into the public debate .
it was the polish trade union movement solidarnosc ; it was the hungarian government which opened the hungarian borders ; it was the czechoslovak government which opened up its country .
all of them have made the reunification of europe possible .
and today , on the german national holiday , i say it with particular emotion : they also made the reunification of my country possible .
and that is why we have the moral and historic duty to make a success of the accession of the peoples of central and eastern europe to the european union .
i am sure that we will manage it , because we must ! ( applause ) mr president , president-in-office , commissioner , i am extremely pleased both with the tone of this debate today and with the level of consensus that is emerging among the key groups in the house , a consensus which my group subscribes to .
to create a common space of freedom , security and of values by free choice is something without a parallel among democracies in all of our history .
in the largest state of the union , the federal republic of germany , only 20 % say enlargement is a priority .
we need a dialogue of politicians and therefore we need to avail ourselves of all the information possibilities that commissioner verheugen spoke of in his very reflective and elegant speech today .
my group has 23 visiting mps , our " virtual meps , " sitting in the gallery now : i welcome all of you to this debate in the house .
that is what we must accomplish in this debate , that is the result we must pursue .
it is true that in talks with the countries involved in the first stage , which have lasted two years , we have not yet got around to dealing with the most difficult issues and we have not yet seriously managed to discuss agricultural policy , structural funds or issues of freedom of movement .
our job here today is to speed up the process whereby we can begin to discuss these issues .
the process has to some extent lost credibility as a result of this sort of hesitancy and groping around in the dark .
if we look at what is happening in our own member states , we might say that quite often the remark is reiterated that , in fact , accession on the part of the new countries will only be by their own efforts .
commissioner verheugen mentioned corruption , but i would like to mention the fact that we cannot infect future member states with bad administrative practice either .
we must also take our own administrative reforms very seriously if we also wish to root out corruption in future member states , as transparency and good administration are the best guarantee that there is no corruption .
our group believes that it is quite possible , if we are so determined , to include the first group of applicant countries already in the next european parliamentary elections , if there is determination on both sides to do so .
the next natural opportunity would be the european parliamentary elections that follow in 2009 , but we would like to push for as many countries as possible joining in 2004 .
commissioner verheugen , you may rely on the support of our group when you say you want to find real political answers to real political questions .
one quite simple way to proceed would be - as funds have been set aside anyway for five new member states after 2002 , if they happen to join the union - to use these funds in future for this support preceding membership .
we are also in favour of a european union that includes russia , and which therefore includes all the countries which have built - albeit in conflicting ways - this historical , cultural , economic , social and political reality known as europe .
the only condition would be - in our view - that they share our democratic values and respect for human rights and the rule of law .
we do not agree with recital a where it says that europe was divided by the soviet occupation because , as everybody knows and as any history book will tell you , the division was a consequence of the yalta conference and the intransigence of truman who was determined to follow a policy of confrontation .
furthermore , there are six basic aspects which worry us because of the method employed .
secondly , given the reality that the neo-liberal economic model established in maastricht leads to the paradox of growth with more inequalities , the most likely outcome of the incorporation of these countries is greater unemployment and inequality , as is already happening .
we should change our economic model in advance so that the cost of enlargement is not even more serious social inequality .
thirdly , the great differences between european agriculture and that of the majority of the candidate countries mean that the current common agricultural policy should have been improved in order to ensure both the viability of our agriculture and the successful completion of the agricultural reforms in those countries .
fifthly , we also feel that the budgetary forecasts are not sufficient , since this is the first time that a major enlargement is taking place with a budgetary reduction and we only have to look at what happened in the case of the reunification of germany to see that , in fact , a greater economic contribution is needed in order for this process to be successful .
sixthly , we believe it has been a mistake to link enlargement in practice with the prior integration of these countries into nato .
this damages the union , its future independence in relation to the united states and also a common european defence and security policy , since it also introduces risks with regard to russia and other countries .
on all these subjects , the brok report confines itself to discussing adaptation and reform .
because we wished to do away with borders in just a few years , because we chose to disregard the differences between nations and their respective systems , we have arrived , once more , at a sort of all or nothing , a choice between two equally dreadful evils .
instead , this parliament is losing itself in wearying fancies at the expense of perpetual division .
we hope that results will be achieved and that another intergovernmental conference will not have to be held in order to prepare adequately for enlargement .
now , in the previous enlargement processes , particularly when spain and portugal joined the union , we were in possession of a very powerful budgetary tool , for the delors i and delors ii packages provided an impetus which made it possible for struggling economies to make up for lost time .
this political will is currently absent , and i feel that that is the central factor to be stressed in the debate on enlargement .
the way in which this almost universal feeling found expression in central and eastern europe in the late 80s still merits our gratitude to this day .
the road to the european union , towards accession , is too long for the candidates .
the eu should make the necessary institutional preparations at the earliest opportunity in readiness for a good number of new member states , and present these countries at long last with a realistic accession strategy .
ladies and gentlemen , the council and the commission have asked for the floor once again .
it was the fall of the berlin wall , this fantastic historic event , which created the conditions for enlargement and for european reunification and which , once again , gives perspective and meaning to this task which will go down in the history of our continent .
it is henceforth inevitable , and we should not allow new divides to appear in today ' s europe , ten years after the fall of the berlin wall .
we must not , on the pretext that we are making history , fail to make proper preparations for enlargement , and that means that the candidate countries must fulfil the requisite conditions : adopt the acquis communautaire and be in a position to implement it .
i am , however , also thinking of public opinion within the european union .
let us not close our eyes to the fact that there is a certain amount of reluctance within the european union , and this is perhaps one of the reasons why you said , mr cox , that we do not talk enough about enlargement .
it is very important , and therefore i am pleased that the commission is working on an information campaign which commissioner verheugen wishes to make both extensive and decentralised .
without wishing to tell him what to do , i believe that , in order to be efficient , it must fall in line with the expectations of public opinion and take on board the practical matters of concern to public opinion : security , as we must live in a europe which is an area of freedom , freedom of movement , but also of security for its inhabitants ; employment and the fear of social dumping , which i do not share , but which we must combat by means of rational arguments ; the environment , for it is clear that everything to do with the environment , particularly nuclear safety , is a real requirement for the citizens of europe ; financing and , finally , corruption .
in this information campaign , we must fight exaggerated fears , but also solve problems as they arise .
the matter of the allegiance of public opinion to the enlargement process was also highlighted by mr hansch , and i think it lies at the very core of the debate .
with this in mind , i understand the feeling of impatience that some of you have - the chairmen , mr hansch , mr brok , and mr poettering - who would like the countries of central and eastern europe to be able to take part in the next european parliament elections in 2004 .
and on the subject , let me again remind you , bearing in mind that this comment is not , as i think i said , intended to be technical or pessimistic or restrictive - that the european union has set a date : 1 january 2003 .
it is up to the candidate countries to make the necessary efforts to achieve this , and it is up to us to assist them and also to make ourselves ready to accept them .
once again , however , let us not indulge in too much demagoguery , even if we can understand this impatience , let us be aware that it is not very likely that many countries that are currently candidates will be able to take part in the 2004 elections , even though we might like to see this .
let us create the conditions for success , for it is important that this enlargement is not a flash in the pan , not just a symbolic decision that will go on to create problems .
the first sine qua non , of course , is that we ourselves must be ready .
our final date is 2002 .
it would have all the negative consequences which several speakers have evoked in connection with failure in nice .
but it is always worth asking , when someone complains that it is all taking too long , if their country has in fact supplied all the information requested , if their country has in fact already passed all the laws needed in order to adopt the acquis , if their country has in fact created all the structures needed in order to apply the acquis .
but the fact remains that , as things stand today , 3 october 2000 , i cannot tell you when any single country in the accession process will be ready for accession .
i should like to refer briefly to two or three comments made during the debate .
but just to be sure that there is no misunderstanding between us : you said that these nuclear power stations must be shut down before accession takes place .
the policy was to agree with these countries on when nuclear power stations would be shut down .
that was the condition for starting negotiations .
i hope that these countries will not be refused accession until the agreed closing dates have been reached , because that would be pretty late in some cases .
i should like to make one other point : we did not - as mr marset campos said - pressgang candidates into nato at the same time .
the pressure to join nato , the idea of joining nato did not originate in washington , london or anywhere else ; it arose quite clearly in warsaw , prague and budapest .
which is also why they expressed their wish to join the european union .
the last point which i would like to make concerns agriculture .
allow me to point out that the opening of borders to agricultural and other products has already been extensively agreed in the europe agreements .
as far as agricultural produce is concerned , we have concluded an agreement with poland whereby as much agricultural produce as possible - in fact nearly 100 % of polish agricultural produce - has free access to the european market even before accession and vice versa : our products have free access to the polish market .
according to the motion presented here , the eu institutions , the member states and the candidate countries will all help to ensure that we are ready before the european elections in 2004 .
we will be ready as of a certain date .
we hope that everyone else will also be ready by that date .
in that case , it will , in my view , have failed in its mission and purpose .
the environment is the area which will constitute a stumbling block in the negotiations .
the only amendment which has already been tabled is covered in my report , but i am pleased that the greens wish to emphasise the importance of treating citizens equally .
i am a little concerned about the way in which parliament has handled this report on enlargement .
imagine if such radical economic and social change had taken place in your own country in such a short space of time .
they are simply not entitled to chide this baltic country like a stupid schoolboy .
the critical comments and the proposals in my report for urgently needed progress in administrative and social reform are designed to bring latvia quickly and successfully into the european union .
in the present circumstances , one thing is clear : the key to this is to be found in a transparent administration at all levels .
the basis for this must be a clear code of conduct which excludes corruption and , hence , gives citizens confidence that there is a truly independent administration taking decisions for the general good .
it is our job to continue to support latvia with the integration of the russian population .
lithuania ' s target date for accession is 1 january 2004 .
this month , on 8 october , lithuania will be holding parliamentary elections .
whatever the outcome of these elections , we may safely assume that the main parties will lend their unwavering support to lithuania ' s accession to the european union .
lithuania has considerable potential for long-term economic growth .
there is a good chance of this , but particular efforts are still needed .
as a result , revenue from exports from lithuania to the euro zone is down and , similarly , producers are of course facing stiffer competition on the domestic market from exporters in the euro zone .
as i said , despite a number of shortcomings and weaknesses , lithuania has made good progress in the economic area and is only a short way away from a working market economic .
this issue requires a special effort and , in my view , cannot be dealt with purely as a problem on the fringe of the issue of the accession of lithuania and poland .
the multi-faceted problems and the dangers inherent in the social and economic crisis in the region will not be averted , let alone solved , by isolating it .
poland will join the european union when both it and the union are ready , but it will certainly be part of the first group .
having said this , we must not deny that there are difficulties , and my report is in fact a summary of the progress made and the difficulties encountered along the road to accession .
the warsaw government and parliament have done their utmost in recent months to speed up the transposal of community legislation .
the polish authorities have also recently carried out major reforms and , although the commission ' s last annual report on poland ' s progress towards accession was somewhat negative , i hope and trust - and in this i am reassured by commissioner vergheugen ' s words just now - that the report which is published in a few weeks time will be more encouraging .
therefore , in order to overcome these obstacles , to resolve these issues , the poles - like the citizens of the other candidate countries - need incentives .
we must convince the citizens of both europe in its present form and the europe which is to come , the europe of the future , the enlarged europe , that the costs - which are heavy and onerous - are still less than the benefits which will come in the immediate future .
in the past , specifying dates has served to speed up the integration process , but it was difficult to come to an agreement on this point and so we decided unanimously to refrain from discussing the dates in our individual reports but to give a - if the truth be told - rather vague indication in mr elmer brok ' s report .
my good wishes apart , a report on the progress of the czech republic towards accession to the european union must , of course , be as objective as possible .
the objectivity of my report is certified by the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy .
plus , the report has been enriched by contributions from my fellow members in all the groups , whom i thank .
what is important to me - and my colleagues in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy supported me here - is that the copenhagen criteria , which the czechs have also acknowledged , should continue to apply and i should like the czechs themselves to review their own legal system , if necessary page by page , in order to ascertain if there are any laws which are discriminatory .
there is that risk and i am going to try to prove the opposite is true in the case of slovakia .
a badly prepared slovakia cannot become a member of the european union .
slovakia belongs to the so-called helsinki group and would naturally like to reach the premier division .
this is where that country should have been classified all along , but relations with the european union were strained under the previous government .
the government has set up an anti-corruption programme which has my admiration and appreciation .
as commissioner verheugen said before , the fight against corruption is a key priority , because corruption undermines democracy and also deters foreign investors .
the law on the use of minority languages is a large step in the right direction but the technical implementation of this act has been inadequate .
the commission reports have so far been very positive .
the level of improvement has even been such that slovakia has been admitted to the exclusive club of the oeso , and i would like to extend my warmest congratulations to slovakia on this achievement .
over the past few years , slovakia has developed a new dynamic which will enable the country to move towards the european union quickly and effectively and to turn its accession into a success .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i feel that it would be right and proper to begin my intervention by referring to the fact that , today , 3 october , we are celebrating the first ten years of german reunification .
this extraordinary event , symbolised by the fall of the berlin wall which separated two blocks of countries and also divided one nation , to a certain extent represented a pioneering step in the process of european enlargement towards central and eastern europe .
the european council , which met in copenhagen following this reunification , decided to integrate into the european union any associated states of central and eastern europe that wished to join .
the 1993 copenhagen council made it clear that the accession of the countries from central and eastern europe would depend on their meeting the obligations that are part and parcel of membership of the union .
on 30 march 1998 , a negotiation process was finally opened with the first group of countries , including hungary , the country which is the subject of the progress report now under discussion in the european parliament .
i think i can say that this report , which has been duly discussed and improved upon in the committee on foreign affairs , security and defence policy where it received unanimous approval , describes and analyses extremely thoroughly the current stage of hungary ' s path towards accession , in its dual approach to the issue .
firstly , parliament has used it as a tool to assess the periodic report drafted by the commission in 1999 on hungary ' s progress .
in this speech , i propose to highlight and discuss the six aspects of hungary ' s changing situation with a view to its accession to the european union , which warrant specific mention .
the problems that do remain are not therefore related to the exercising or safeguarding of civil or political rights but involve fighting more effectively against some less positive aspects .
thirdly , with regard to agriculture , which has a lower level of productivity than in the european union , we need to ensure that the agricultural market is fully opened up to the capital that is necessary for land privatisation , for the modernisation of farms and marketing structures and for improving yields .
this issue needs to be addressed seriously but within a broader framework that covers not just hungary but also the other candidate countries that still operate this antiquated and relatively unsafe technology .
i am therefore pleased to see that it has been addressed in mr brok ' s general report on enlargement .
the rapporteur for bulgaria , mr geoffrey van orden , has asked me to speak on his behalf since he has to attend the defence debate at the conservative party conference in bournemouth , england , today .
bulgaria has made great progress in her preparations for accession .
it has already demonstrated its commitment to regional security and stability through practical and political action , as was evidenced during the kosovo conflict when bulgaria sided with nato allies , possibly to the detriment of her own short term interest .
the bulgarian government has made efforts to overcome the problems of exclusion of the large roma community , comprising roughly 4 % of the population .
meanwhile , in a more open society with greater opportunity , people need to be assured that those in power , whether in government or in administration , are exercising their authority for the benefit of the country as a whole .
democracy and the market economy are vibrant forces in bulgaria , but they are still young and need to be sustained by the confidence and trust of the whole population .
the kozloduy nuclear power plant accounts for half the internal power generation in bulgaria .
safety considerations must of course remain paramount but other factors must also be taken into account in determining the country 's most suitable long-term energy strategy .
if europe is to embrace this historic opportunity for enlargement , removing the divisions created by the soviet occupation and the communist experiment , candidate countries must be given a chance to accede within a reasonable timeframe .
indeed , 80 % of romania 's people believe that romania belongs in the european union .
acute poverty has been a key problem in romania since 1990 and under the present government , the economy is at last showing real signs of improvement .
the current prime minister , mugur isarescu , is himself on secondment from the central bank and therefore has excellent relationships with the international financial institutions .
here we must remember that the collapse of the soviet union has left thousands of children in desperate straits throughout the union ; children whose families have given way unwillingly to pressures , children who have been institutionalised wrongly , children who are treated cruelly , children who die needlessly , children who are adopted by other countries illegally , children whose only future is to be exchanged for hard currency or household goods .
central and eastern europe and the west balkans are a prime source for the international child slave trade .
in romania the government , with the active support of commissioner verheugen , the world bank and the united nations , have given us an opportunity to establish good doctrines and best practice in the region .
this will be reflected in the coming challenge of the osce which romania adopts in january 2001 and perhaps in 2002 when romania 's probable membership of nato will be reviewed .
we must insist on a timely , appropriate information campaign for slovenia as well , in order to make all the citizens aware of the benefits of joining the european union .
parliament could contribute actively to these initiatives by opening documentation units and involving the public through schools and via their cultural , professional , social and working environments .
parliament ' s resolution of april 1999 stressed the convergence of the positions of the european union and slovenia on economic policy and security , and in this past year slovenia has indeed made a major contribution to the stability pact for south-east europe .
slovenia supported the action of nato and the member states during the war in kosovo and , considering the difficulty of making such a decision , this can be taken as evidence not only of the important role played by this country in the region but also of the convergence of its interests with those of the european union .
i would like to take this opportunity to invite commissioner verheugen to make representations to the commission and the council of europe so that the european union can revise its position and invite the serbian opposition , which has just won the elections , not to stay away from the second ballot , for that would be to hand milosevic a virtual victory on a plate without a political fight , potentially providing him with dangerous grounds for remaining in power .
the report which it is my honour to submit , which was also unanimously adopted in committee , observes that the part of the territory controlled by the legal authority fulfils the copenhagen political criteria .
cyprus has a viable and prosperous market economy and should not encounter any particular problems in adopting the acquis communautaire .
i am convinced that cyprus ' accession could serve as a catalyst and a driving force in finding a solution to the political problem of the division of the island .
we must however also point out that the definitive solution , a fair and lasting solution , must fully comply with both the relevant united nations security council resolutions , with this being , quite simply , the international law in force , and also the principles governing the european union .
i am thinking , of course , primarily of the political principles , but also the principles of freedom of movement and of establishment .
immediate confidence-building measures are essential as a way out of the current deadlock .
your rapporteur therefore proposes that the series of confidence-building measures and measures to dismantle the status quo should begin with the demilitarisation of the island , something that has , in fact , been demanded by a number of security council resolutions since 1983 .
both its security and cultural identity will be fully respected .
the european parliament and the european council of vienna , with wolfgang schussel , who at the time was still serving as austria ' s foreign secretary , in the council presidency , therefore welcomed malta ' s decision to reactivate its accession application , which had been frozen since 1996 .
it was only logical for the european council in helsinki in december last year to give the green light for the resumption of accession negotiations with malta when the accession negotiations were extended .
the national action plan to implement the acquis is creating the conditions needed to restructure and modernise the economy of this island republic .
malta ' s main problem is still that the accession process is judged differently by the government and by the opposition , while the european union just wants to be sure that the accession process progresses steadily .
what is needed , therefore , is comprehensive information for the public on the political , economic and social aspects of malta ' s accession to the european union , together with comprehensive dialogue with all sections of the population and relevant political groups and parties , in order to ensure that malta ' s accession becomes a matter of national concern and in order to pave a straight path for malta to join the eu .
allow me now to jump across to poland , which is without doubt a key country in the enlargement process , not just because it is the most expansive of all the central european economies but because of its size and geopolitical position .
poland has always been the first victim of the european conflicts which , until just recently , were played out on its territory .
it is not its fault that it has taken so long to find its way to the european union .
with all the problems inherent in poland ' s adjustment to the european union , we must not forget the historical dimension in the case of this country .
it makes sense , especially on the anniversary of german reunification , to remember that it was the polish solidarnosc movement which set the downfall of the soviet superpower in motion 20 years ago and recently enabled germany to unify .
but there should be no doubt about the will of the european union to extend its zone of peace and stability to central europe and poland .
the tendency in the report on poland , encouraging its politicians to speed up the harmonisation of its legislation with the eu and implement the acquis , and the successful conclusion of the agreement on the liberalisation of polish agricultural trade a few days ago are positive signals here .
there is a debate , which is often fuelled here or there , to find out if we should examine the process for the accession of candidate countries to the union with regard to the criteria for real convergence or for nominal convergence .
the experiences of italy and portugal obviously come to mind , and we can observe the same phenomenon with regard to the candidate countries , but for that a certain amount of flexibility is necessary in order to enable the necessary adjustments in the catch-up process .
once the conditions have been fulfilled , there is no reason why either candidate countries or the countries currently members of the euro should object to candidate countries entering the third stage of economic and monetary union .
these countries aspire to join the european union according to the criteria which we have defined collectively .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has discussed the question of extending the internal market to the candidate countries in a highly committed and serious manner , because an internal market between such different economic areas as the european union and the candidate countries is unprecedented in economic history .
according to calculations in a study carried out on behalf of the commission , it will take 35 years to halve the difference in the standard of living between the eu and the candidate countries .
nowhere in the world is the income differential at a border greater than between the eu and the candidate countries .
these interim solutions are not intended to set the status quo in stone but to act as intelligent buffers which adapt to changing circumstances .
we welcome the progress which the candidate countries have made in harmonising with european law and we encourage them to continue this sometimes arduous and difficult work .
european law is not just law in the books ; it must also be law in action in the candidate countries .
we want to encourage the commission to go ahead with its plan to draw up a work programme for the border regions which , as in the case of enlargement southwards , will , of course , also receive specific financial commitments .
i therefore ask for today ' s resolution to clearly state to these citizens that the european parliament hears their concerns ; that way we shall also have these people ' s support for the european goal of enlargement in peace and freedom .
the european parliament must vote in favour of the accession agreements .
allow me also to say at this point that i have a great deal of respect for the citizens of the central and eastern european countries who , ten years ago , had the courage to go into the streets and start this process .
this is a broad political field which includes highly explosive smaller issues and covering this broad spectrum for the twelve different candidate countries from central europe , malta and cyprus was a huge challenge .
allow me to comment on a few focal points .
this change places heavy demands on the people in the candidate countries but , at the same time , it guarantees their future and their children ' s future .
thirdly : supplementary measures , such as training people , social protection and hence social stability , and an active job market policy are also extremely important .
a few comments on new technologies : these countries too are moving from an industrial to an information society .
this process runs in parallel to enlargement .
if we are to have a common information area , we must make huge joint efforts in this sector .
the public sector should set an example in the central and eastern european and in the other candidate countries .
the whole european energy market will change on accession .
i too should like to stress on behalf of my committee that i am not in favour of linking accession dates to closures .
the process of change and the momentum of this process of change will cause structural adjustment difficulties on both sides .
we already have experience of both from enlargement to spain and portugal .
compared with the european union , participation in the labour market in central and eastern european countries is approximately five percent lower , and about twenty percent lower in the case of women .
in romania , child mortality is , in fact , four times higher than that in the european union .
if the acquis communautaire has not been completely transposed , or cannot be fully transposed , or if it has not been implemented in practice , on what basis will a decision then be taken as to what part of the acquis communautaire must be implemented at all events , and what part , further to research and interpretation , could be subject to a transitional period , if necessary ?
this comment is addressed to the council and of course to us , the member states , precisely because the rates of growth in the candidate countries are in fact far lower than those forecast in 1997 , when we first debated this question .
we should therefore be more conservative , commissioner , in our future forecasts .
and , in turn , social development is needed if we are to stabilise the european social model and ensure that this model is not jeopardised .
however , we live in the real political world and are therefore bound to make provision for transitional arrangements in various political sectors in order to prevent negative frictional losses during the accession process .
in doing so , we help both the candidate countries and the member states themselves .
for the job market and employment policy , that means that member states bordering candidate countries need flexible , intelligent transitional arrangements in the first stage for the free movement of workers , especially border commuters , but only until such time as the difference in the standard of living in the candidate countries has improved to the point at which no migrationary movements or unrest are expected .
that means that we must use the first stage following accession to jointly iron out social differences , especially if we are to be able to jointly build up confidence-inspiring relations in border regions .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the eu ' s enlargement , to include ten eastern european countries and the two mediterranean countries malta and cyprus , is upon us .
negotiations involving the european commission and the governments of those twelve countries are now under way .
three major stumbling blocks in these negotiations are the environment , agriculture and free access of employees of the new countries to the labour market of the old fifteen .
the european commission then spelled out that the internal market rules would apply as from day one of the gdr joining the eu .
at present , the eu spends approximately eur 500 million annually on the environment in the twelve new countries together .
this also applies to the inhuman transport of live animals to slaughterhouses .
mr president , when pandora opened her box all the ills of mankind were released .
that would happen with or without enlargement .
it is a long list and one that is often more honoured in the breach than in the observance by member states .
when the european union is enriched with many millions of central and eastern european citizens in a few years ' time , these countries will also add as many consumers .
although the acquis communautaire on consumer protection is relatively limited , consumer interests touch upon many other areas of policy .
that should give us food for thought , because so many of our farmers are afraid that , if we unify , we shall all go under because they are all fully paid-up agricultural economies .
we must also clarify openly and honestly in discussions with these countries , that the common agricultural policy does not imply that the same payments have to be made everywhere from day one of membership , without checking if there are price losses in the individual product segments .
all these purely agricultural matters should not obscure the fact that the following applies in the agricultural sector : unless institutional reforms are properly regulated before the first candidate countries accede to the eu , there will be much that we are unable to regulate as we would like to .
but justice does not mean that everything is measured with the same yardstick .
the economic and social cohesion laid down in the treaty , the basis of the policy of european solidarity , must be one of the basic elements of that construction .
however , we must not forget that , after enlargement and as a result of the low standard of living in the candidate countries , the average community gdp is going to be reduced by at least 18 % .
the immediate consequence will be that more than 20 of the current objective 1 regions will exceed the ceiling for receiving aid - 75 % of the community average - without having increased their income in real terms .
somebody said here today that enlargement is not a priority for 60 % of the people consulted by the latest eurobarometer .
my report on the committee ' s opinion therefore talks not only of what the candidate countries have to do but also of what the european union has to do .
my report is also bound to discuss the european union and has to demonstrate that the european funds for regional development cannot continue to be granted on the basis of a simple distribution of money between regions or districts .
if we do not establish priorities from a continent-wide perspective and straightaway , we will waste precious time , a few very important years in the task of constructing a strong and united continent .
it is essential , ladies and gentlemen , to create a genuine european regional planning policy , of which the structural funds are a component , an element , but which gives rise to ambitious actions in favour of balanced and integrated development of the european area in its different dimensions .
it is necessary to develop this european plan , link it clearly to regional policy and to the reform which is going to be implemented in 2006 .
the moment to move forward will perhaps arrive after the next intergovernmental conference .
the european parliament and its committee on regional policy , which also has competence in the field of transport and the trans-european networks , is aware that it is necessary to coordinate the different community sectoral policies in favour of a global policy of regional planning .
the european commission works on the basis of this same hypothesis and will put forward some of its proposals in the second triennial report on cohesion which it will present to parliament in december .
we know that this is perhaps not the ideal moment politically , but there is also a need to discuss the current financial perspectives negotiated at the berlin european council , which do not seem to us to be sufficient to confront the challenges of the regional policy and the economic and social cohesion of an enlarged european union .
helmut schmidt and valery giscard d 'estaing put it another way : the only way we can create realistic and viable integration is through political will and socio-economic conditions which are almost identical .
the french presidency changed its political presence here in the house prior to the reports on the two candidate countries of cyprus and malta .
elmar brok rightly started his intervention by saying that we all stand to benefit from enlargement , especially those of us on this side of the current external borders .
commissioner verheugen , you rightly stressed that it was no longer a question of if , but of how and when enlargement will take place .
the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism has tried , within its remit , to take account of two sub-sectors which mr brok addressed and which must be borne in mind if enlargement is to be a success .
if that is our classification , then transport and tourism come in the " stick " category , because in this sector we have a huge amount of acquis and it will be a question - and i shall come back to this - of actually applying this acquis .
the tina report covers these prospects .
the financial perspectives make provision for some of the funds .
there are two very important aspects in connection with road and rail transport which deserve special mention here : as regards road transport , which has already been liberalised and opened up to an extensive degree , care must be taken to ensure on accession that the provisions of community employment , social , fiscal and tax legislation are actually applied in each member state because , if they are not , this will lead to distortions of the market in the european union and in the candidate countries which , where possible , we shall then have to spend a great deal of money rectifying .
there is a series of further points which the regional committee has mentioned in its report .
we could make ourselves comfortable in our little club , but its whole raison d ' etre would then be lost , and we should not be able to secure the large perspectives of peace , freedom and stability .
nor shall we succeed , however , if we do not appreciate that enlargement should , first and foremost , be for the benefit not only of a few people but of all people in the candidate countries , or in any case the majority of them .
they have in fact experienced it at first hand for a very long time .
we therefore need to realise that women are much more vulnerable in this process of readjustment and therefore much more vulnerable in relation to the union project as a whole than we have indicated up until now .
i would strongly urge the commission to be alert to this in all its negotiations with the candidate countries .
i have already warned colleagues in central europe about this ; when the tone sobers down , then this is only proof that we are moving from the honeymoon period into a life of domestic normality within europe .
the president-in-office of the council replied that this reform cannot , of course , take place without involving the citizens .
we want an effective communication policy which enables the citizens in the european union and in the accession countries to take part in the political debate in a meaningful manner .
policy in this respect is still not sufficiently in tune with democratic standards .
we all know it : to play on people ' s fears is an electorally useful exercise and parties which have no political goals other than gathering seats , like to indulge in manipulating people ' s feelings of uncertainty .
mr burenstam linder , a former swedish colleague of mine who was an expert in this field , explained to me that any enlargement of the european union , whenever it took place , has always resulted in an excellent cost-benefit analysis on the part of the new participants and those already in the union .
well , mr president , let us spread the word that it is precisely these new opportunities arising from enlargement , to include former dictatorships and countries under totalitarian regimes , which can help us broaden our horizons .
as a result of the intergovernmental conference , the conditions needed in order for the european union to be able to enlarge will be in place .
the second point concerns the setting of dates .
if there is a need to postpone the free right to acquire land and property for family use , then let us do that .
the group of the greens / european free alliance is calling for negotiations with the first group of countries to be completed by the end of 2002 , so that the first accessions can take place before the next european elections in 2004 .
there is another reason .
common environmental standards and social rules can only be implemented if these countries are full members .
as far as i am concerned , it is out of the question to have to use additional resources from category 8 from 2002 as part of the pre-accession strategy here .
as far as i am concerned , three criteria are more important in relation to all the problems than the not insignificant criticism which i have on individual points .
first , the democratic wish of the countries and people in question must be respected after their accession to the eu .
it is therefore urgent and imperative not to allow institutional reform of the eu or enlargement to be postponed .
i also call for individual countries to be given possible target dates .
secondly , i am one of those who are disquieted by current neo-liberal trends in the eu .
thirdly , acceptance of enlargement and its positive prospects for the individual countries and for the eu as a whole basically depend - and denmark demonstrated this - on dismantling the social and democratic deficits of european policy .
enlargement is basically a challenge for the eu itself to reform and an opportunity to steer the social , employment policy and democratic aspects of european integration as a whole .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we are gathered here today to discuss the applications for membership of the european union from twelve european countries : ten in eastern europe and two from the mediterranean , malta and cyprus .
prosperity is created by restoring economic freedoms and nothing else .
once again , this constant groping around shows either that we do not know where we are going or that we know only too well and that it is too shameful to mention .
quite rightly , the commission has stressed the risk of quality and speed being incompatible .
i do not think so , and we therefore refuse , today , to follow you down this road which , in the long term , will do nothing but smother the hope of a lasting peace on the continent of europe .
this applies to the candidate countries , but in fact it also applies to all current member states .
through enlargement , we shall be participating in the largest common market in the world , with almost 500 million people and 25 per cent of world trade .
we shall acquire an extended and stable democracy and , with it , opportunities for enduring peace on what has been a constantly war-torn continent .
mr president , slovenia has succeeded in achieving the majority of the short-term priority objectives of the pre-accession partnership and this positive evaluation is helping to provide fresh impetus for the negotiations .
however , with the exception of insignificant minorities , no political group is questioning the principle objective of the slovenian policy which is to join the european union as soon as possible .
the report on slovenia presents us with a problem which is also part of the czech question , the croatian question and the situation of other nations .
the third amendment to the slovenian document , for example , welcomes the slovenian government 's intention to ascertain whether the laws and decrees currently in force , which date from 1943 , 1944 and 1945 , are in conflict with the copenhagen criteria .
while an amendment , as we said , welcomes the slovenian government 's intention to ascertain whether the laws are in conflict with the copenhagen criteria , the slovenian parliament ' s foreign policy committee , which has decision-making power , stresses that the bases established between 1934 and 1935 , upon which yugoslavia was created , are fundamental , and requests that the slovenian government firmly enforce this position in its entirety , that part of the country ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , people have spoken about a very fast timetable in the discussions on enlargement .
there is an irreconcilable conflict between these points of view .
some have suggested that this conflict should be resolved by offering the applicant countries membership of the eea first .
rapid enlargement of the eu is a political inevitability .
in this way we could create preconditions for membership of many or even all the applicant countries in the next few years .
in splitting the body of eu law in two , the level of integration achieved by the present member states could be guaranteed and cooperation could be further enhanced .
talk about the fast accession to the union on the part of the applicant countries is just empty words unless the conditions of membership are changed .
it is for these reasons and , more importantly , because of our own experience in greece , that our opposition to the enlargement of the european union is meant as an expression of brotherly solidarity to the workers and people in general in the candidate countries .
we call on them to fight for a different europe of all the people , a europe without this inhumane side , in which people will defend their destiny and live with each other in peace , freedom , comradeship and mutually beneficial cooperation .
as far as cyprus is concerned , despite the fact that the poos report contains much that is true , we feel , in addition to the foregoing , that the process of integration into the european union and the decisions taken at helsinki will not only fail to resolve the problem of the occupation in accordance with un resolutions ; they will legitimise the occupation and the definitive partition of the island .
i believe that the romanian government has problems in estimating the number of orphans who are presently in the orphanage system in that country .
in correspondence received by the european commission delegation office in bucharest from the romanian government it is estimated that there are between 100 000 and 140 000 orphans in romania at present .
the brutality of the ceausescu regime ensured that so many children were orphaned in romania since the late 60s .
it is imperative that the accession negotiations between romania and the union detail exactly what the romanian government needs to do to improve the standard and quality of orphanages in that country .
i publicly commend the work of these and , in particular , the romanian challenge appeal based in birmingham and others from ireland supported by a number of people including daniel o 'donnell , the irish entertainer , who has pledged gbp 1 million and has raised that in ireland and other parts of the world .
not only will enlargement affect human beings , it will also have an impact on the plant and animal kingdom .
mr president , i would like to make another comment about poland .
the polish people believe that the country will be ready for accession with effect from 31 december 2002 , and poland has certainly made great strides since the accession negotiations started in march 1998 .
there are already a number of progress reports available to us , and parliament , which plays an important part in this process , has repeatedly made its feelings known on the subject .
above all , the nice summit must clarify whether , and how , the eu , for its part , can get itself completely ready for enlargement in good time .
mr president , let us no longer use the word enlargement , but rather talk about accession , or even better , the reunification of europe .
the eu must pull out all the stops in order to support the candidates in these areas and not raise any new barriers , of course .
frustration in the candidate countries is mounting because they feel the accession process is taking far too long .
if this situation does not change , the whole reunification will be up in the air .
we would then share a common goal with these countries in the common agricultural policy , and it would also enable this agricultural matter to be settled once and for all by speaking to joschka fischer .
mr poos brings a european vision to bear on the subject of cyprus .
i think that the poos report will set a precedent for the european parliament and i am sure that the house will support it unanimously .
cyprus ' s heart has always beaten in time with europe .
cyprus will be a sort of bridge with the countries in the area .
i have no need to raise the economic dimension , it is covered thoroughly and dynamically in the poos report and the reports by the other institutions of the european union .
cyprus will have no trouble adjusting to the acquis communautaire .
the poos report notes that the state operates smoothly , respect for human rights and freedoms form the cornerstone of the social and cultural tradition of the island and the country ' s social structures are , first and foremost , humane structures .
it is a natural progression for existing eu member states and , when fully operational , will contribute significantly to the economic and social development of the entire european union .
the audiovisual sector is very important .
we have also addressed the issue of minorities , because the integration of these minorities - including their linguistic integration - in these countries , is also of significance .
for years now , we have had links with these countries through the tempus programme , and likewise , for a year and a half now , they have been entitled to participate fully in the educational , cultural and exchange programmes for young people .
we recently completed a study in my country , austria - which , in point of fact , shares its borders with the czech republic , slovakia , hungary and slovenia - according to which , the idea of enlargement meets with far greater approval in the border areas , where discussions are being held and there are initiatives and investments in place , than in other regions left untouched by these activities .
of course the second form of communication we need is that between the member states and the candidate countries , in order to convey what it is that is important from the european union ' s perspective .
it is certainly not just about having general objectives , or simply being present , because the acquis communautaire is also very important .
the social partners must become involved , as must all social groupings , so as to be able to convey to the candidate countries ' own citizens what enlargement is really all about .
with that in mind , i believe we parliamentarians should do our bit to ensure that there is better communication and dialogue in future .
there has been remarkable progress in several areas , but one of the aspects which was not covered in the report was equal opportunities .
mr president , enlargement will not be achieved in a controlled and organised way in accordance with the timetable the commission is proposing .
mr president , first of all , as socialist rapporteur for the report on romania , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report .
i believe that romania has embraced the challenge of a transition to an open democratic market economy .
it has successfully embraced reforms which are essential to secure a more prosperous and safer future .
as both the commission report and baroness nicholson 's report acknowledges , some progress has been made in improving conditions for some minorities .
i also believe that the commission wrongly defines minority rights solely in terms of the roma and hungarian communities .
the rights of these minorities are essential to a free , open , democratic and european romania , but i am also particularly concerned about the rights of other minorities such as the groups listed in article 13 of the teu : those who suffer from discrimination based on sex , racial or ethnic origin , religious belief , disability , age or sexual orientation .
the accession of the countries of central and eastern europe , cyprus and malta , provides us with a historic opportunity to unite all the nations of europe on the basis of shared ideals , and to make the whole continent a more stable place .
as a member of the delegation to the eu-latvia joint parliamentary committee , i should also like to briefly mention this specific case , by way of example .
in the face of the twofold challenge of both the enlargement , which must enable europe to come to terms with itself , and the institutional reform , which must increase democracy and efficiency within the institutions , the european union now , as it often does , stands at an important turning point in its history .
the institutions , the member states , and all of us , have to live up to this challenge , also in relation to the fears of public opinion in our own countries and to rediscover the inspiration , the ambition and the vision of the founding fathers of europe .
in the course of the last few years , it has been possible to bring about a distinct improvement in the situation , due in no small part to the influence of the european institutions .
these legal hurdles have now been overcome , as a result of which , many russian-speaking citizens are now prepared to recognise the citizens ' rights and duties , both in latvia and estonia , which are the countries worst affected .
it is a process that is having very mixed success , but it still inspires great hope , because it will mean that these citizens will also become citizens of the union in the future , and will therefore be called upon , in a special way , to establish ties with their homeland , where their forefathers come from .
i have a shrewd idea that these citizens will become agents of cross-border cooperation in a future enlarged european union .
there is no doubt that the diversity of cultures and peoples in central and eastern europe , and in the balkans , is , within the framework of a unified europe , being given new opportunities , but at the same time , europe will also need to realise that a problem such as the roma , for example , is a problem of a nation without a country and that is our problem too .
we cannot simply pass the buck to slovakia , romania or the other countries .
mr president , i have no intention of digging over old ground a month before the next progress reports are due to be published .
as shadow rapporteur for lithuania , on behalf of my group , i would , however , like to congratulate mrs hoff on her report .
those who subordinate historic decisions to petty national , or even party political considerations , will not earn their place in the history books .
mr president , i would like to begin by talking about bulgaria , which in recent years has made notable progress in its transition to a free market democratic society , but not without economic and social problems .
perhaps a constructive dialogue between the government , the opposition parties and social representatives could provide a positive impetus to move things in the right direction .
this dialogue would also contribute to the creation of the necessary administrative capacity for the effective management of the country , creating structures which do not currently exist and reducing cases of corruption .
many countries have faced similar problems at some time in their development and can advise bulgaria in order to help it to overcome those problems it is facing at the moment .
in bulgaria , 20 % of the active population is out of work .
bulgaria also has an important geopolitical role to play in the future of the balkans .
its cooperation with the international community during the kosovo conflict , and its balanced role at that time , are of great importance for the whole region .
in fact , bulgaria uses its position as a bridge between central europe and the balkans in a way that is fruitful for everyone .
the european union must continue to help bulgaria in its progress towards joining the union and , of course , to ensure that the planning of that aid becomes even more decentralised .
firstly , that enlargement should take place hand in hand with a deepening of the community .
secondly , the union should tackle enlargement with sufficient budgetary resources .
enlargement will thereby have credibility in the eyes of those who want to be with us in the future , and credibility in the eyes of our public from this very moment .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , ' from problem child to model pupil ' , that is how we could characterise the determination of the slovakian government and the slovakian parliament to swiftly tread the path to eu membership , and to spend the past two years making every available effort to fulfil the copenhagen criteria .
the dialogue between the social partners , the other groups within civil society , the government and parliament will play an important - and as we see it - positive part in the process .
we are particularly delighted that slovakia has made a start on granting the hungarian and the other minorities rights , which are gradually approaching the standards prescribed by the council of europe .
but differences in income among us have only grown , as has the information gap in many cases .
mr president , the challenge facing the european union in the 1980s was to complete the single market .
the challenge in 1990 was to achieve a single currency .
no country has an absolutely guaranteed right to join .
we must make sure that the countries are ready to join and in particular that they have the administrative capacity to deal with the acquis communautaire .
that is why some of us were concerned that the czech republic has delayed implementation of its civil service law and has slowed down its judicial reform whilst , on the other hand , lithuania has made tremendous strides in that area , recognising the importance of administrative capacity .
member states could do more in their twinning arrangements to assist the applicant countries in developing their administrative capacity .
finally , it is crucial that we sell the applicant countries to the electorate of the european union .
they are now much more modern economies , in many ways ready to take up the challenge of european union membership , and we have to sell that idea to our citizens if they are to support enlargement in the future .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , romania will certainly not be among the countries that accede to the european union in the first round , but it just goes to show that the commission hit on the right strategy when it decided to put twelve countries on the same footing as negotiating partners , and then to determine , on the basis of certain criteria , which countries should become members and when .
all this is to be found in the report by baroness nicholson of winterbourne , and on behalf of my group , i would like to thank her warmly for this report .
the democratic government has only had since 1996 to catch up on all the things that other countries were able to make an early start on , and with that in mind , it has achieved a considerable amount of success these past four years .
allow me now to move from the general to the specific question of the last two islands in the mediterranean which are island states , cyprus and malta , which have now set their cap at membership of the european union .
from this point of view , it is here that the logic of enlargement will be judged not only on the basis of economic or other criteria , but also on the basis of respect for more general principles which should govern our perception of the future of europe , a europe of peace , a europe of the people , a europe of states , a europe of equality and a europe which respects human rights .
cyprus and malta will prove to europe that it accepts enlargement on general terms , not for reasons of geographical symmetry , but in order to achieve the political integration of united peoples , united cultures and united prospects .
mr president , the debate that has taken place today will be remembered as one of the most significant demonstrations of the european parliament ' s work on the enlargement process .
despite the obvious differences in points of view , we have seen broad consensus on the fundamental aspects of the issue .
amongst these , i would highlight the following : the full inclusion of each new country in the european union means complete commitment , bringing together economic convergence and partnership in a political project .
amongst the characteristics that must define the identity of the european project , the most prominent are cohesion and solidarity between member states , democracy , the ethic of responsibility , the social dimension and equal opportunities .
lastly , mr president , the fact that this debate is taking place at a time when germany is celebrating the tenth anniversary of its reunification should give us food for thought .
they will unite in a common project , which is unmistakably a project of peace between europeans and between europe and the rest of the world .
mr president , i come from a country , sweden , in which there is still quite a lot of scepticism about the eu project .
the report states that each country must accede to the eu on its own merits .
my group therefore supports the proposal to limit the transitional periods in the environmental sphere to a maximum of five years .
nuclear power stations of first generation soviet construction are a particular danger as far as europe is concerned .
i have three particular nuclear power stations in mind , and they are bohunice , ignalina and kosloduj .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we cannot afford to underestimate the importance and potential implications of this historic opportunity to unite our continent and live in peace .
as politicians , we must give this momentous process our unequivocal support , even though there are still many aspects to be discussed and negotiated .
the political vision endures .
the responsibility that we parliamentarians bear at this time must enable future generations to live in peace and freedom on our continent .
i would still much rather face the problems that have arisen as a result of opening the borders , than have to continue living with my back to the wall of the iron curtain , as we had to for decades .
as well as giving enlargement unequivocal support , i would stress that it should take place as soon as possible .
we must tell the candidate countries that they must make the necessary structural changes , so as to be competitive in the future market , and they must increase the number of employment opportunities available in rural areas .
the fundamental alignment of the european agricultural model and the development of the rural area will not produce a conflict of interests between the farmers of the eu and those in the countries of central and eastern europe .
mr president , it is essential for us to adopt a positive approach to enlargement .
we have assets allocated in the budget according to the requirements of agenda 2000 , but we have to take care that the funds we need , which are required particularly in the area of the environment , are available specifically prior to membership .
the funds have to be channelled more strongly to action preceding enlargement than is presently the case according to the proposals in agenda 2000 .
overall the costs of enlargement have been highlighted very considerably in public debate .
i would like to add that it is also a moral duty of western europe : 11 years ago , the soviet system came to an end and the countries involved turned to us in hope .
my group announced its desire to see the first negotiations concluded by 2003 , making accession possible by june 2004 .
i would consider it wise to adopt a solution which is a good compromise between an enlargement process which is not too spread out over time , which would certainly prove traumatic for our institutions , and an enlargement process which takes into account the legitimate timetabling expectations of the countries .
as regard the transitional periods , i feel that we must be careful not to fall into the temptation to use them to reduce the impact of enlargement , thus detracting from the fact that the new countries belong to the european union , in an endeavour to comply with the timetable we have set ourselves .
on the other hand , it is true that these transitional periods can , if granted appropriately and in moderation , with great transparency , balance and a sense of accountability , prove to be in the general interest of all the countries .
we can take it as read that considerable strides have been made , particularly since the last reports were published .
as vice-president of our joint parliamentary committee with the czech republic , i can vouch for the fact that this is true of the czech republic , but i assume the same applies to a number of other states too .
the internal market is a key component in the success of enlargement and it is therefore clear to me that we must tread extremely carefully when it comes to exemptions and transitional periods .
although the following statement by mr schroder only relates to the czech republic , i believe the same applies across the board : ' many weaknesses that are still discernible in the czech republic are the legacy of decades of dictatorship .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we have picked the right moment to discuss enlargement .
in this way , we might avoid having to implement as many regeneration measures at a later stage , as we are having to do in our own countries now .
it is in the interests of both sides to achieve economic and social balance during integration of the transport markets , because we are already waiting with bated breath as to the consequences of distorted competition on our roads .
the eea agreement is definitely no substitute for proper membership and must not leave countries in a waiting room for an eternity , from which there would be no chance of moving forward , but it could act as a sort of tool for encouraging the applicant countries , in a way that promises a reward , to implement the acquis communautaire .
this would mean greater commitment to the implementation of eu legislation than what is required in the present convergence agreements .
the eea , which contains issues relating to the first pillar , would give businesses in the applicant countries access to the internal market and youth and science the right to engage in exchange programmes , but , on the other hand , would not yet oblige the eu to extend their agricultural aid schemes to these countries .
thus , the eea agreement could act as a positive stimulus mainly to the economies of the applicant countries - they need growth to make their societies fit for accession - but also to the eu economy , as through economic growth we can reckon to cover as much as two thirds of the costs of enlargement , perhaps even more with the eea model in place .
the answer is the implementation of the acquis communautaire .
benefits and responsibilities go hand in hand .
an eea model , which led to membership , and , at the same time , was a reward scheme , would be productive also as far as public opinion was concerned .
this holds good for both the citizens of the applicant countries and those of the present member states .
mr president , it is to be hoped that the fact that the issue of equal opportunities is the last point to be discussed in the report on enlargement , is no reflection of its status , although it sometimes looks that way .
the candidate countries ' legislative programmes and guidelines must include implementation mechanisms that allow for equal opportunities and clearly prohibit discrimination .
we must facilitate this process through dialogue with the european parliament and back up from experts , and through the involvement of ngos , associations and organisations , and financial aid .
the public and private institutions in the candidate countries must strive for equal opportunities in all political spheres , and involve issues specific to women in all social , economic and cultural areas .
it is statistically proven that since the detente with countries of eastern europe , there has been a 10 % increase in violence against women there .
secondly , say no to the big bang idea of incorporating candidate countries simultaneously as a large group , since that would militate against the principle that each country should be admitted on its own merits .
in particular , i trust and hope that , understandable difficulties notwithstanding , the negotiated procedure with bulgaria and romania will proceed smoothly and without delay so that , once the necessary conditions are in place , these two balkan countries can join the european union , thereby consolidating progress , security and peace in south-eastern europe as a whole .
we must accord this political process the historic importance it deserves and enter into discussion with the citizens .
the enlargement process and the economic and monetary union are not just a matter for the european institutions .
i call upon the member states and all public mandate holders and media at all levels to become more actively involved in this process , because only then will we be able to do justice to public confidence in these initiatives , the objects of which are in the interests of us all .
it was answered in february 2000 .
however , i must express my concern - and i ask that the presidency communicate this to the prague authorities - at the fact that two young spaniards , gaizka azcona cueva , 22 years old , and mikel oliva martinez , 21 years old , have been detained arbitrarily since last tuesday - nearly ten days .
mr marset campos , we shall certainly take note of your statement .
agenda the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has requested that the debate on the oral question to the commission on the rights of language teachers , which is currently scheduled to take place on friday morning , be postponed until the next part-session .
mr president , the question concerning language teachers which has been put down for this friday comes from the committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
it is important that we have a question and debate with a resolution at the end of it .
i note from the minutes that the aforementioned ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) i am very sorry , mr wuermeling , but the minutes have been approved .
the commission ' s proposal removes those rules which entitle local and national authorities to local derogations .
i totally agree with all the proposals tabled by the commission on this issue .
if we let the matter rest until the limit value has been reached , the measures to be taken become very drastic .
i also believe , however , that it is parliament ' s responsibility to try to produce laws , rules and regulations in the european union which can be understood by our fellow citizens who have to comply with them and who need to read them .
i would also ask you to take account of farmers whose fields border either very busy roads or industries which have contaminated large areas .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we should bear in mind the fact that one of the new features in the white paper on food safety was the ' farm to table ' idea , which made farmers directly responsible for the quality and the safety of the animal and vegetable raw materials that they produce .
as i personally am not prepared to sacrifice food safety on the altar of the agri-food lobbies , i have withdrawn my name from the report .
it would be much better to add healthy products until an acceptable level of pollution is reached .
if we were to continue to allow dilution , this dioxin present in animal feedingstuffs would first build up in the animal , and then , to an even greater degree , this toxic product would gradually accumulate throughout the consumer ' s body .
with regard to inspections , the commission ' s proposal for a directive on inspections in the field of animal nutrition stems from the report by mr staes .
as draftsman of the opinion , i approve of the main amendments proposed by the commission , such as the establishment of national contingency operational plans , giving the commission the option to adopt interim protection measures , the obligation on member states to inform the commission as soon as contamination or serious risk thereof is detected , and the creation of a legal basis in this field .
it should be emphasised that inspections must take place on three levels in order to enable an emergency system to be established .
the second level , of course , involves the member states , who are responsible for carrying out inspections of food safety .
what will the role of the european food agency provided for in the white paper be , once it is up and running ?
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we want to guarantee the safety of animal feed and human foodstuffs , and to that end we need a workable european regulatory framework .
the crises of recent years have made everyone , including ourselves , more keenly aware of the situation .
the 1999 directive was well thought-out , and it has already scored its first success by demonstrably reducing pollution levels .
farmers have a right to flawless animal feed .
nor do i have any problem with allowing dilution or blending in the case of certain products , provided it is always carried out under the control of the member state and of the commission .
if all of us were served animal feed in the canteen downstairs for a period of time , if we were able to see on our own plates exactly what animal feed is , we should perhaps deal with the issue rather differently and be just as hard and as stringent as we are on the safety of food for human consumption .
the dioxin crisis that struck belgium over a year ago made a deep impression on people all over europe .
this crisis not only cost billions of euros , but also resulted in even more suspicion about what we eat .
pcbs and dioxins are toxic substances , even in very small quantities .
i hope that the latter will change their minds for the plenary sitting , because i cannot see any arguments that could justify the inconsistencies in the commission ' s draft proposal .
i therefore think that , given the prevailing attitude in the house , we can face the vote with confidence and hope to achieve a majority , which will enable us to put our point of view across at second reading .
the detection of dioxins in citrus fruits that have been imported into the community to serve as animal nutrition revealed the loopholes in current legislation on inspections .
on this point we are in agreement .
it is time to break with a misguided interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity , which attempts to increase brussels ' s hold on our nations a little more each day .
there is a significant reason underlying our contribution , particularly regarding article 5 , which stems from the fact that , although this is a major , coherent instrument , its scope is still limited , for it concerns production measures and does not deal in any way with the commercial side of things .
we are calling for a comprehensive assessment of the issue precisely in order to afford better protection to farmers .
mr president , it is the duty of this parliament and this commission to protect the health of all citizens of the european union .
that is what we are trying to do in this report , on which i congratulate mrs paulsen .
these proposals also mean a step towards a complete package of measures in favour of food safety .
mr president , i welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this debate , which highlights the important role of the european parliament in the crucial area of food safety , public health and environmental standards .
it is in the interests of farmers and consumers to restore consumer confidence in food .
in this very sorry saga , farmers have in many cases been the innocent victims of circumstances beyond their control .
the chicken dioxin crisis highlighted the shortcomings in community legislation and animal nutrition .
these directives are part of the most radical shake-up of the community 's food safety hygiene rules for at least 25 years .
i am confident that with this systematic set of uniform rules we are laying the groundwork for filling the gaps in the existing legislation and enhancing food safety throughout the food chain .
these three reports place us on the horns of a dilemma .
as for the declaration of feed materials - the open versus the semi-open declaration - our dilemma is surely between consumer protection and economic viability .
i should like to conclude by dealing briefly with two problems relating to the declaration .
unfortunately , however , despite all our efforts , it will never be possible to completely eradicate criminal practices .
for my own part , finally , the quality of our food concerns me less than the eating habits of our citizens in general .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mrs paulsen ' s report on undesirable substances and products in animal nutrition deals with an important subject , which , like all important subjects , is highly controversial .
mr president , this directive forms part of the consistent set of measures which is planned actively to render all stages of the food chain safe .
we must attempt to improve food safety and to rule out any crises which not only put the confidence of the consumer to the test but also bring the entire agricultural sector into disrepute in the long run .
i believe that the consumer is not prepared to wait for this to happen and i also have the feeling that , whilst the compound feed sector is still creating problems at the moment , it is ultimately the farmer , in fact , who ends up footing the bill for the damage done to consumer confidence .
marit paulsen has played a very creditable role in this work by drafting her report on undesirable substances in animal feedingstuffs and the monitoring of feedingstuffs .
the committee also adopted the amendment we tabled , reminding everyone of the division that exists in respect of rules for feedingstuffs produced on farms and commercially produced feedingstuffs .
the good quality of the former is regulated by legislation on hygiene and the directive on undesirable substances in animal nutrition is most essential with regard to the latter .
this proposal will without doubt enhance the safety of feed .
amendment no 18 explicitly proposes to include water in the definition of feedingstuff .
in any case the commission cannot accept an amendment which would prohibit decontamination .
amendment no 33 deletes the possibility of exporting non-complying consignments to the country of origin .
the commission cannot accept this amendment .
the possibility of re-exporting non-complying consignments to the country of origin should remain open .
on the basis of these scientific risk assessments the commission will propose to the member states appropriate measures to limit the presence of these substances in feedingstuffs .
amendment no 38 is unacceptable as it falls outside the scope of this directive .
amendments nos 39 and 40 , proposing to delete the possibility of establishing an action threshold are similarly unacceptable .
in order to protect public health it is important that the overall contamination of food and the feed chain is reduced to a level as low as reasonably achievable .
dilution does not reduce the overall load of contamination in the food and feed chain .
having extensively explained why the commission cannot accept the amendments nos 18 , 27 , 33 , 35 , 36 , 37 , 38 , 39 , 40 , 41 , 42 , 43 and 44 , i am glad to say that the commission can accept amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 19 , 21 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 28 , 29 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 34 and 45 , as these amendments constitute an important clarification of the commission 's proposal with the understanding that with some of these amendments , in particular amendments nos 3 , 4 , 30 , 34 and 45 , further editorial changes may improve the text .
regarding amendment nos 20 , the commission can accept the insertion of a definition for consignment but the proposed definition itself needs further consideration as does the need to include other definitions .
now i want to turn to the second major proposal for discussion today with important implications for food safety .
this proposal is the follow-up to one of my first commitments to improve food safety and provides for a system to exchange information in the field of animal nutrition , with particular reference to a rapid alert system and a legal basis to enable the adoption of safeguards measures for products produced within the community and also the obligation for the member states to have in place contingency plans to deal with feed emergencies .
considering the amendments tabled for adoption in this plenary session , i appreciate parliament 's support of the proposal .
on behalf of the commission , i can accept amendments nos 1 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 18 , 23 , 25 and 26 because they provide clarification and increase transparency .
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 2 , 14 , 17 - the first sentence in particular - and 19 concerning the deletion of the adjective " serious " when clarifying a risk for consistency with our general policy laid down in the general products safety directive .
in other terms , not all risks need immediate action at community level .
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 5 and 22 on the rapid alert system as they are currently worded .
this should be sufficient , considering our commitment to establish a rapid alert system covering all the food and feed chain in the new proposal on the food authority .
in principle , i am not against amendments nos 15 , 16 , 20 - last paragraph - concerning the change from " decontamination " to " rendering the product harmless " however we will introduce some editorial changes in relation to that .
we cannot accept amendment no 21 , second indent , ( a ) , because there is a linguistic misunderstanding : " cross-contamination " is the appropriate wording to be used .
finally , we cannot accept amendment no 27 introducing in the recitals , reference to civil and criminal liability in the event of loss or damage .
overall therefore , the commission can fully accept 15 of the 27 amendments .
it is gratifying for me personally to be able to serve as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture and rural development , since this problem has been with us now for decades .
we always stressed the need for openness .
we then pressed this point again in the temporary committee which was created with a view to following up the recommendations on bse , but the commission asserted in 1998 that declarations were already open .
yes , you did mean it , and now we have a draft on the table , a draft that is entirely in line with our wishes .
one such measure is the introduction of open declarations , and an open declaration is not merely an indication of the percentage of various content categories or generic classifications but clear and precise details of the ingredients contained in the feed mix .
the commission has pledged itself to work on this list and has also said it is not something that can be done in a couple of days .
so if we were to do what we intend , if we were to implement it quickly and then pass quickly through the codecision procedure too , that would certainly be a huge step forward , and i feel sure that we shall be very strong and united in our dealings with the council .
just think of bse or dioxin , and you will know what i mean .
that is their right as purchasers as well as being consistent with the interests of consumers .
the question of genetically modified cereals should be regulated elsewhere .
the socialist group endorses the statements made by the rapporteur in his conclusions on the open declaration of feed ingredients .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , speaking for my group , i assume that the report on the proposal for a directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs will obtain the consent of the european parliament .
i also expect the commission to stipulate the necessary measures along with a strict timetable in order to ensure that the directive is applied in the member states of the union .
the basis for the introduction of open declarations , in other words the full listing of all feed materials , differs extremely widely between member states .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , after the issue of the composition of feedingstuffs for animals , if we are to eliminate mercury , lead , arsenic , ddt , etc . , we must address the question of the way in which these products are marketed .
even if we are pleased with this progress , however , how can we forget that before we finally adopted measures it took ten years and 80 deaths , and in two years ' time we may well yet discover a zoonosis , a health disaster ?
mr president , i should like to begin by saying that this commission proposal is most welcome .
indeed , it addresses a long-standing concern of parliament , which has at times , in 1997 and 1999 , asked for a review of current legislation on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs .
we all agree that there is a need for compulsory labelling that clearly indicates the various components of compound feedingstuffs and their nature .
as we all know , these measures are fundamental for increasing consumer confidence .
there is in fact a general lack of confidence , which is particularly marked in relation to intensive production processes , not only in meat production but also in fish farming .
it is possible , through clear , transparent and responsible labelling , to give consumers this confidence .
it is essential that the commission and the council should fight for these same rules to apply to all partners worldwide , especially in the framework of the world trade organisation .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , a surfeit of scandals has shaken public and consumer confidence .
as far as the directive on undesirable products and substances in animal nutrition is concerned , let me say from the outset that we need a more workable solution here which strikes a fair balance between the interests of producers and those of consumers .
i cannot but warmly welcome the pressure for the creation of a european information system for food crises , the standardised transmission of information on the monitoring and safety of animal feed and the dissemination of information on cases of contamination and of damage to public health and the environment .
what we feed our livestock is just as important to us farmers as it is to the consumers who subsequently buy our meat .
mr president , commissioner , i would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for his efforts and praise the important work of the institutions in their approach to animal health which also , of course , facilitates the protection of human health .
i am grateful that this matter is finally coming to its conclusion and that we are going to have a solution as swiftly as possible .
the tighter measures which the rapporteur announced in his report and which encompass , for example , an exhaustive list of products , for which he calls on the commission for help , is an interesting proposal and will only reinforce this policy .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i regard this amendment of the directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs as a step in the right direction on a long road .
the first aim is to create traceability of foodstuffs back to their origins , in other words maximum transparency .
the second is to restore consumer confidence in european food products after the bse crisis and the dioxin scandal .
the food industry has the necessary information to hand .
as stressed in the report by these two committees , this proposal was initiated by the european parliament out of a concern to improve both traceability and the provision of information through the labelling of compound-feeding stuffs .
the commission proposal does not enjoy the unanimous support of all parties concerned .
in my opinion , this is a legitimate right to information which must be satisfied .
as far as the amendments presented are concerned , the commission can accept amendments nos 1 , 3 , 4 and 5 that improve the commission proposal .
however , the commission cannot accept amendment no 2 calling on the commission to present , forthwith , a proposal setting out an exhaustive list of the materials authorised for feeding animals .
the procedure whereby this can be done is the amendment of 1996 / 25 to convert the current non-exhaustive list of feed materials into an exhaustive positive list .
this can be done by codecision under article 152 .
finally , in relation to amendment no 6 , this amendment is not acceptable as it falls outside the scope of this directive .
five bodies have been found and the rest have disappeared .
on my own behalf and on behalf of my colleagues in the committee on fisheries , i would ask you , madam president , to send parliament ' s condolences to the families of the victims and to the local authorities in both brittany and in marin , galicia , from where the majority of the victims came .
mr swoboda , we quite agree .
when we vote on these paragraphs , i shall ask if there are any objections to inserting them after paragraph 1 . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) mr president , may i just make a brief comment .
mr president , the reason for this amendment concerns the fact that recital c ) highlights the persistence of segregation in children ' s education and serious discrimination in the various sectors of hungarian civil society , from the economy to the public sector , which in its seriousness does not correspond to my perception of the current situation , which i have had the opportunity to observe as rapporteur and during my visits there .
the formulation that i now propose does not try to hide or deny the existence of discrimination against the roma community , which unfortunately still exists , but it stresses the need to adopt a set of positive measures leading to the free , unforced assimilation of the roma into hungarian society .
we shall now adjourn the voting in order to make way for the formal sitting . ( the sitting was suspended at 12 noon and resumed at 12.35 p.m. ) mr president , my intention is to combine the three amendments tabled by the group of the european people 's party and european democrats in a new formulation , which would make recital a a new paragraph .
welcome , our estonian friends ! ( loud applause ) vote ( continuation ) ( parliament adopted the resolution ) explanations of vote - brok report ( a5-0250 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , i am very pleased to announce that i voted for the resolution on the procedure for admitting these important new states to the european union .
secondly , that the candidate countries continue to make the good progress that they are making towards meeting the copenhagen criteria and towards the full and complete enforcement of the acquis communautaire in advance of accession .
the brok report gives us grounds for satisfaction , but no room for complacency .
almost all the reports on the twelve countries that are candidates for membership of the european union express satisfaction with the progress that these countries have made in order to fulfil the necessary conditions .
admittedly , this report has the merit of providing an insight into the immensity of the task that awaits us if we wish , not even to bring the candidate countries of eastern europe up to the level of development of the west , but simply to establish conditions for peaceful coexistence and a gradual rapprochement between the two areas that would not be too destabilising for either side .
the task is huge and also a matter of the utmost priority .
if we had to give reasons for the existence of the european union today , top of the list would be the huge task of closing the gulf that communism created between the two halves of europe .
unfortunately , from the institutional point of view , the brok report falls in completely with the standard brussels ready-made way of thinking : it takes the view that enlargement consists of bringing greater europe into the institutions of little europe .
the statements that we find most unacceptable are to be found in the combination of several paragraphs of the resolution for which the european parliament voted : firstly , paragraph 27 and those that follow , which imply that full participation in the single currency , even if not immediately , must be a condition for membership .
it is even more unacceptable to seek to turn this participation into a commitment to a global and irreversible political project .
this paragraph alone justifies all the fears that our danish friends have expressed in recent weeks during the referendum campaign , and which , quite rightly , were the reason for their " no " vote .
many other passages in the european parliament ' s resolution are equally unacceptable .
paragraph 45 , for example , requires candidate countries to grant the freedom to purchase land to nationals of member states .
furthermore , this is the type of problem that was taken into account in 1992 , in protocol no 1 of the maastricht treaty , in order to grant an exemption allowing the danes to maintain their restrictions on the purchase of second homes by non-residents .
paragraph 65 is another example of brussels ' s desire to dominate and unify , stating that the non-discrimination clause provided for in article 13 of the ec treaty is part of the ' acquis communautaire ' and insisting that " legislation derived from this article be fully implemented in the ceecs " .
even if one approves of the principles of article 13 , it is quite clear that derived legislation that the european union may draw from it sometimes goes too far , and that there are no grounds for refusing candidate countries the right to cultural diversity .
enlargement towards the countries of eastern and central europe ( ceec ) , cyprus and malta has been called an ' historic task ' for the european union .
extending the european union , at least in the first stage , to more than 100 million new citizens , will provide new impetus for the development and integration of the european economy as a whole .
the first wave of new member states could increase europe ' s population by more than a quarter , taking it to almost 500 million people , whilst the total gdp of the european union would increase by only 5 % at the most .
the report urges the commission and the council to ensure that the principle of differentiation , as defined in helsinki , is implemented to the letter , so that each country is judged on its own merits .
to return to the budgetary aspect , i think it is crucial that we study the budgetary consequences of such a large number of new member states joining before the end of the current financial cycle in 2006 .
lastly , i wish to stress the fact that the enlargement process must be a gradual one , following the pace at which the candidate countries are making the necessary changes .
his report clearly sets out the issues and the objectives of enlargement in the field of regional policy and he does so in both political as well as financial terms .
in order for this to happen , candidate countries need aid , particularly through the phare programme .
this report forces us to face our responsibilities and that is why i voted in favour of it . - ( sv ) in adopting our position , we have been guided by the following basic attitudes : 1 .
if the country so wishes , it should be possible to extend the the transition period . 2 .
when the candidate countries accede to the eu , they must be treated in the same way as all the other eu member states .
this is an excellent report which , as well as analysing the progress made and the difficulties still facing the countries with which negotiations have begun , also serves as a reminder to the public of the political and ethical commitment which the european union , this parliament , has made , not only to the candidate countries which wish to share our european history , and have the right to do so , but also to the political project of european integration itself .
i believe that enlargement will not only favour the prosperity and economic growth of the candidate countries and , by extension , that of the current member states of the union , but will , above all , also provide a guarantee of peace and stability in europe and thereby offer the european union the opportunity to finish the task of ensuring peace in europe , which began fifty years ago .
it was decided in berlin to allocate approximately eur 3.1 billion a year to the gradual integration of the applicant countries for the period from 2000 to 2006 , which amounts to a total of about eur 21.8 billion , and to earmark a further eur 58.1 billion for enlargement from the year 2002 .
the financial framework for the enlargement of the union , however , can only be facilitated through a rise in the current member states ' contributions and not through constant cuts in planned expenditure on the various community policies .
although it may be difficult to have the various sensitivities , histories and , sometimes , contradictions live side by side , enlargement must adhere to this concept of peace and take part in the creation of a community that transcends ancient geographical and ideological borders , guided by common values and rules .
nevertheless , in order to prevent europe becoming nothing more than a free trade area , the european union must provide clear answers to the institutional , social and economic questions that enlargement is bound to raise .
we must , as of now , adopt a pragmatic approach to the implications of a europe not of 15 , but of 25 or 30 .
it is about formalising a system which allows financially strong eu companies to dominate neighbours in the east and south , at the same time as the eu develops into a military superpower .
french workers have no more had the chance to say what they think about the charter of fundamental rights than the people of lithuania have about joining the union .
the criteria laid down at the copenhagen council in 1993 on democratisation or the ability to withstand competition actually strengthen the hand of unrestrained , destructive capitalism , in the guise of acquis communautaire .
we want another europe , an alternative model of european integration , a europe that is great , the europe formed by the cooperation of independent sovereign nations , whose aspiration is to include all the countries of europe , just the countries of europe .
consequently , in most member states , neither the citizens not the parliaments have deliberated on the principle and conditions of enlargement .
until the definition of a political and social europe is made clear , not only in order to overcome the obstacle of the proper technical operation of the decision to be taken at 23 months but also in order to define the framework of the values , common social and citizenship models , enlargement will entail running more risks than it creates opportunities .
i abstained in the vote on this never-ending resolution on enlargement because i believe that parliament would be doing a disservice to the politically important and worthy cause of eastward and southward enlargement of the european union to the south and east with this semi-digestible screed of paper .
i even fear that this collection of country reports and comparative reports will prove counterproductive , particularly in the countries that have applied for membership of the european union , and more especially in the applicant countries of central and eastern europe .
the impact of this long-winded resolution of 127 paragraphs , indeed , is liable to be in inverse proportion to its length .
reading the section of the resolution entitled ' enlargement and equal opportunities ' , which states that the adoption of the community acquis in the area of equality is a sine qua non for accession and makes other demands of the applicant countries , i have the impression that all this could be interpreted by those countries as the ultimate bid to block their accession .
so it would be nothing less than arrogance on our part to expect more of the applicant countries in this domain than we ourselves have been able to achieve in the 25 years since the adoption of the first directives relating to equal opportunities .
i also wanted to send a signal that would be properly understood in the applicant countries , to convey the message that we are in favour of accession but that we , like they , must first be in a position to create the necessary conditions for their membership .
the eu ' s member states have an historic task which consists in welcoming the countries of eastern and central europe into european cooperation .
enlargement ought not , however , to be regarded as a problem , but must be seen as an opportunity for deepening cooperation on cross-border issues which the states cannot solve on their own .
europe ' s leaders must therefore begin to show the political will to accept the challenge posed by enlargement .
if europe is to become whole , the objective must be for all member states to participate in all areas of cooperation .
objectively , this complex process can take up to 20 years to complete .
the size and breadth of the problems raised by enlargement are incompatible with the duplicitous language that has been used about it within the european union .
a europe of this type would be a guarantee of peace and would signify the rejection of any ethnic nationalism .
the prospect of uniting nations around a common political project , on a democratic basis and in order to promote the prosperity and welfare of the various peoples is an exhilarating one .
this must be the objective of a greater europe .
for me , enlargement is not a question of whether to endorse the entry of certain countries into europe .
europe and the european union are two different things : the european union is a political entity conceived 50 years ago whereas europe is a geographical , historical , political , cultural and social entity whose origins lie in the mists of time .
to become part of the european union one needs to apply , whereas one becomes part of europe by birth , through a blood tie which unites all the people of this wonderful continent .
in general , we are all in favour of enlargement , but this will only fully come about when the candidate countries have carried out the necessary structural reforms , when the european union 's institutions and decision-making processes are capable of handling such a situation and , most importantly , when we at last realise that europe is not a question of political status but , more than anything else , a story of roots and common history , blood , sweat and tears , dreams and visions , which unite us above and beyond political and economic issues .
carlsson report ( a5-0238 / 2000 ) mr president , i am very pleased to be able to announce that i voted for the measure on estonia 's application for membership of the european union .
i would like to take this opportunity to extend a greeting to the pensioners and elderly people of estonia , in the hope that we will look after their interests once they join the european union .
it is therefore very positive that accession negotiations with all applicant countries have made progress .
enlargement will also benefit the present members of the european union .
with respect to the question of estonia ' s minorities , the important language law , which was passed in june 2000 , is in accordance with all international norms .
schroedter report ( a5-0239 / 2000 ) mr president , both on behalf of the pensioners ' party and on my own account , i voted for the report on the republic of latvia 's application for membership of the european union .
and it is this feeling - or lack thereof - much more than meticulous analyses of the accounts , which should , when the time comes , govern our choices regarding enlargement as european integration ceases to have any meaning if it is no longer primarily political .
the pettifoggery intended to alter the frame of reference used to view events when they run counter to the slightly too rigid technocratic and monetary dogma - this house ' s astounding indifference in the fact of the outcome of the danish referendum is a splendid , worrying example of this - should not be used as a benchmark for a debate of this importance .
and so , in agreement with the observations and comments made by the rapporteur , i therefore welcome this dialogue and the prospects it gives rise to .
hoff report ( a5-0240 / 2000 ) regarding the stage reached in the agreements on lithuania 's accession to the european union , i would like to take this important opportunity to extend a warm greeting to the pensioners and elderly people of lithuania .
as the rapporteur , magdalene hoff , declared , it is important for the ignalina nuclear power station to be closed down , as it is particularly dangerous .
i would like to take this opportunity to extend a greeting to the pensioners and elderly people of poland , some of which belong to a pensioners ' party which is similar to the pensioners ' party which i represent in the european union .
let me remind you that the agreement between europe and poland was signed in december 1991 and came into force in february 1994 .
on 5 april 1994 , the polish government made its official request for membership of the european union and , on 31 march 1998 , negotiations were officially opened .
by dint of its geographical position it represents an extremely important factor in the stability of the future geopolitical position of the european union .
accession negotiations with poland have entered a crucial phase with the opening of all the chapters , including the very important chapter of agriculture .
the european commission has published the second report on poland 's progress along the path to accession .
it notes that a great deal of progress has been made thanks to the efforts made by this country , particularly in terms of adopting the community acquis .
moreover , poland fully respects human rights and fundamental freedoms .
restructuring of the agricultural sector would appear to be necessary in a country where the rural population represents 38 % of the total population and accounts for 4.9 % of the gdp , and where agricultural employment is estimated at 27.4 % compared with 5 % within the european union .
i am fully aware that the polish authorities consider that poland will be ready for accession by 31 december 2002 .
poland is making considerable efforts .
i note that the poland is making excellent progress towards meeting the copenhagen criteria and fulfilling the acquis communautaire .
we therefore have a duty to embrace poland as a member as soon as possible and treat the country as it deserves , as one of our members for all time .
most of all , this country , which has ceaselessly fought against all hegemony , will bring us a new but , at the same time , experienced insight enabling us to parry the risks of any new imperialism , even that apparently inoffensive one - which may yet be a harbinger of the worst perils - of noble sentiments and a quiet conscience on the cheap .
if the czech republic joins the union without the considerable safety risks of temelin being resolved , it may well prove difficult in future to persuade other candidates for accession to take the nuclear safety requirement seriously .
wiersma report ( a5-0244 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the report on the current status of slovakia 's application for membership of the european union .
as mr wiersma said in his report , i would stress the progress made in the slovakian republic in the area of the protection of minorities .
it should be noted , in particular , that it is permitted to use the roma language in 57 districts where the roma population exceeds 20 % .
i have no doubt that the european union will make every effort to resolve their problem .
i look forward to early membership for hungary .
i abstained from the final vote on this report .
the existence of serious discrimination against this community , one of the most victimised communities in europe , is a key element casting doubt over whether hungary is truly committed to making europe an area of peace , democracy and prosperity for all its constituent populations .
i look forward to bulgaria joining the union in the not too distant future .
i note that slovenia has made excellent progress towards meeting the copenhagen criteria and is making good progress towards fulfilling the acquis communautaire .
i hope slovenia will be in the first group of new members .
in addition , the report called for the repatriation of settlers which presumably includes their children born and raised in cyprus .
the european parliament has failed in its duty to reflect a balanced approach which i very much regret .
the un settlement process has now lasted since december 1999 without a break , longer than any of the previous attempts to solve the cyprus problem .
the uk position is that it is vital for us to do everything we can to show our support for the secretary-general 's efforts .
unfortunately some of the comments made in the draft report on the application by cyprus for membership of the european union by the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy are not helpful .
the european commission ' s assessment is very positive .
i would also like to urge that the european union , through its high representative for the cfsp , should get involved to a greater extent in seeking a negotiated solution in order to put an end to the partition of the island , in application of the united nations security council resolutions .
the european union does have the capacity to make a key contribution to the security of the cypriot communities in the context of a peace settlement .
it is essential to initiate projects involving both communities and to encourage dialogue between both parts in a new spirit of trust .
it is therefore essential for turkish cypriots to express their point of view on the accession negotiations .
it is unfortunate that the eu takes a one-sided position on such an acute and difficult question .
we are convinced that initiatives at all levels are required if to break the deadlock which have been reached in negotiations .
from the economic point of view , the accession of cyprus should not pose major problems , since it is a country with a market economy and a high standard of living .
paulsen report ( a5-0257 / 2000 ) mr president , what remains to be said on the subject of food safety and the precautions to be taken in order to avoid further instances of contamination or further food crises ?
every link in the chain must be responsible for what it produces and for its precisely identifiable role .
the safety bolt guaranteeing this discipline lies in the commission ' s determination to ensure that consumers are provided with consistent quality , at all levels , in the products available on the market .
food safety requires that we must increasingly pay the closest attention to feedingstuffs , given the close links that exist between animal nutrition and human nutrition .
another positive step is the ban on diluting batches of products that have higher levels of undesirable substances than the established maximum limits with non-harmful products in order to get around the established maximum limits .
we must effectively be vigilant in this area as animal feedingstuffs are the first link in the food chain .
the prohibition of undesirable substances in animal feedingstuffs is therefore a basic element in our food safety policy .
the destruction of contaminated foods or food compounds provides a twofold guarantee making it possible to limit the trafficking in this type of food .
it was , moreover , essential to step up harmonisation of the conditions of performing checks and inspections in the field of animal feedingstuffs .
paulsen report ( a5-0256 / 2000 ) it is important that a full , detailed declaration of the ingredients of compound feedingstuffs should become mandatory to guarantee their safety , by means of clear , transparent labelling which will allow stock farmers to make their own decisions on feed purchases .
as we all know , back in 1997 , in the aftermath of the bse crisis , parliament called for legislation to this end , and this call was reiterated after the scandal in belgium last year when dioxins were found in feedingstuffs .
i welcome the vote by this parliament deploring the flagrant violations of james ' rights under un international law .
we , as elected members , are outraged that 51 democratically elected members of the nld are in prison , victims like james , of inhuman and cruel abuse .
i would like to express my sincere thanks to my co-rapporteur , elizabeth lynne , for her cooperation and constructive comments and extend that gratitude to all members of the article 13 rapporteurs ' working group .
i should point out to members that the council working group agreed unanimously to recommend to the council that the type of committee in the action programme should be modified to a mixed committee , a combination of the management and advisory procedures , thereby increasing the power of the individual member states .
the council informed parliament before the vote in committee , but only just before , deliberately ruling out any chance of further debate with myself or parliament .
a politician can have no greater responsibility than to be given the opportunity to redress the wrongs so often visited upon minorities .
i accept that responsibility eagerly , with a determination to ensure that this action programme to combat discrimination , not just in the eu but also in the candidate countries , is not the end of a noble process , but the beginning .
whilst compiling my report , i was sad to realise that some ngos believe their continuation is more important than that of other groups .
in my report , i have called for greater representation and involvement of ngos , greater accountability to parliament , the production of an annual report to be debated by parliament , the highest possible degree of transparency , promotion of remembrance of the past in the fight against prejudice and the recognition of multiple discrimination .
i urge parliament to support my report .
that is why it is quite essential for the groups listed in article 13 to be effectively protected against discrimination .
no wonder the french presidency of council described this issue as one of its priorities .
in the committee on employment and social affairs we defined " reasonable adjustment " very precisely in article 2 ( 4 ) , together with the circumstances under which undertakings cannot reasonably be expected to pay the costs involved , i.e. , if they are too small or their turnover is too low .
article 9 of the draft directive states that persons who consider themselves discriminated against , whether as unsuccessful job applicants or as dismissed workers , can seek legal remedy .
only associations , organisations or legal entities representing the interests of employees and the groups protected by article 13 should be entitled to initiate proceedings .
the committee on employment and social affairs decided by a majority that these agencies should be set up in the eu member states rather than setting up a central body at european level .
these communities make vital contributions to society in terms of social facilities such as nurseries , hospitals and educational institutions .
the action programme must enable groups that are discriminated against to take action themselves .
briefly , on the employment directive , i would like to congratulate thomas mann for an excellent report .
i also urge you to vote for the amendment by the committee on employment and social affairs on age .
indeed , equal treatment is a fundamental constitutional right which forms one of the cornerstones of the european union .
they also form part of a practical policy because directives and action programmes encourage the member states to fight discrimination on the basis of the same guiding principles and because the commission can fulfil its role as guardian of the treaties but also as a pioneer in the social debate .
not only do the social activities which underpin the social programme complement the directive ' s legal framework , they also need to generate the extra information , the expertise and the support structure to complement and improve this legal framework .
the two proposals which the european parliament is discussing today are both based on article 13 of the ec treaty .
it thus follows in the footsteps of the current article 141 , formerly article 119 , which lay - and still lies - at the basis of european legislation to combat sex discrimination .
first of all , we are dealing with a different decision-making procedure involving the european parliament which , with regard to the implementation of article 13 , cannot yet fulfil its role of co-legislator .
secondly , a whole raft of pieces of legislation has now been drafted concerning the equal treatment of men and women , the oldest dating back 25 years .
this summer , the council adopted a directive to combat discrimination on the basis of race or ethnic origin .
this directive provides a higher level of protection , and is wider in scope , than both existing equal treatment legislation on men and women and the draft directive which we are discussing here today .
we in the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs have always argued that this fragmented approach gives the wrong political signal , as if there might be some sort of hierarchy in discrimination .
as already stated , the level of protection concerning the fight against sex discrimination should also be brought into line with the highest standard .
the existing set of directives concerning sex discrimination pertains to labour , remuneration and social security , whilst the current measures against discrimination on the other grounds specified in article 13 apply to a much narrower area .
i am delighted that the commission pledged its willingness this summer to compile a draft directive also to combat sex discrimination outside the employment sphere , but i cannot understand why such an announcement for the other grounds of discrimination has not yet been forthcoming .
this principle , as well as the prohibition of all types of discrimination , have also been included in the draft charter of fundamental rights .
the programme , despite being modest financially , can play a significant role in strengthening the mechanisms for combating discrimination and will achieve its aims if there is coordination , at both a community level and within the member states , with other programmes and initiatives in the same field .
it is the member states who are most directly responsible for the eradication of discriminatory practices and it is therefore essential that we incorporate all our accumulated experience and acquis in this field , and that this parliament ensures that it is effectively monitored .
we must support the social partners , the ngos and other institutions which are pursuing the same objective , and we must also demand rigour in the selection of the actions and organisations which we are to support financially .
ladies and gentlemen , we are all aware of the budgetary pressures that exist within category 3 expenditure , which includes this and other programmes .
although the present legal basis releases appropriations for new preparatory actions , their funding within this category could lead to a reduction in appropriations for other policies .
the fight against discrimination is something which concerns us all .
in my view , this programme operates within a very general scope .
with regard to the proposal for a directive , i would like firstly to congratulate mr thomas mann on the excellent work he has done .
the common objective of eradicating discrimination in the field of employment can and must be pursued from many angles , but it is clear that the role to be played makes it essential to establish a minimal legal framework which must be consistent with all the measures to combat discrimination and , in particular , with the directive on race .
the member states already have a legal framework , both in the constitutional field and in ordinary legislation , and experience of the measures adopted in the fight against discrimination , which must be taken into account .
therefore , the concepts of framework directive and minimal directive are the key to interpreting the present proposal for a directive .
the system of penalties laid down in the directive must guarantee that it acts as a deterrent and that it is effective in the eradication of discriminatory practices .
however , as well as the penalties , the declaration of invalidity of activities is also important in the case of serious violations of the principles laid down in the directive .
the exception of a difference in treatment which may be made on ideological or religious grounds or for reasons of age must bring together the law which protects certain public and private organisations with scrupulous respect for the principle of equal treatment .
the fight against discrimination will be a long one and we must therefore be attentive to the results of the measures we are debating today .
this package of legislation will open a new and radical chapter in the eu 's history of commitment to securing equal opportunities and combating the modern scourge of discrimination .
this parliament will send a clear message in our vote to all our citizens that we intend to improve member states ' record in ensuring respect for equal treatment , irrespective of age , race , disability and sexual orientation .
uk employment legislation will now have to be reviewed to ensure that ability , not age , determines who gets the job .
this legislation will encourage employers to seek to use the talents , the ability , the experience of all people in our society .
it is the biggest overhaul of discriminatory legislation that we will ever see in europe and back in our own member states .
but the kind of legislation we are looking at today will have a big impact on peoples ' lives and make people understand that here in strasbourg and brussels we do things that make a difference .
similarly they took on board our comments on the involvement of ngos .
i do not consider that the main aim of european programmes is to support these organisations , but without them it would be very difficult for us to hear the voices of those target groups .
finally , there are those in this house - i have heard them in my committee and elsewhere - who argue that we do not need this kind of legislation , it is too burdensome , it is a lawyers ' charter .
mr president , first of all , i would like to congratulate the commission on the initiative to develop article 13 of the treaty further .
after so many years of talk , we finally have an initiative to tackle discrimination in different areas more effectively .
discrimination can have different consequences for men and women .
i should like to highlight the importance of a person in whom employees can confide within an organisation and the importance of an independent body to which people and organisations can turn in the event of complaints concerning discrimination and intimidation .
it is a compromise , but one which enjoys wide support within parliament .
mr president , no sensible person can think that the european parliament does not have to concern itself with discrimination , even if , in the case in point , it is a matter of rewriting and expressing our opinion on a report proposing a decision for the council of ministers which will do whatever it wants to anyway .
in committee , i have had occasion to make a stand against the fact that there may also be experts outside ngos that have something to say .
finally , this community policy , article 13 , does not lead to a situation where the solution lies necessarily in more money .
finally , we in the ppe-de group place great hope in the policy of assessment and coordination , and one of our proposals is that the fight against discrimination should give rise to a specific report to be presented before parliament , which will account for the money and the use of the community money which has been invested .
finally , and this is my concluding remark , the definition of the causes which has been given and , indeed , adopted in the charter which we shall have to adopt in november , is an acceptable one , making it possible to resolve a great many tensions within the european union .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , if tomorrow , the entire house adopts the viewpoints held by the competent committees with regard to the directive , i am convinced that the new directive on equal treatment in the workplace will be an excellent directive , which will have an enormous impact on the elderly , the disabled , homosexuals and lesbians in their battle against discrimination in the workplace .
my group therefore lends its unqualified support to the report and we would particularly like to thank the co-rapporteurs , mr thomas mann and mrs joke swiebel for their sterling work and also congratulate them on the excellent cooperation within the respective committees .
i would , in fact , like to seize the opportunity also to congratulate mr cashman , because although directives are important , action programmes are , of course , essential too in terms of the support they lend to directives .
parliament rightly chose to play the trump cards which we already have in the form of existing directives on equal treatment , those on gender and those on race and ethnic origin , and i am particularly pleased with the sound descriptions of indirect discrimination , positive action and the principle of shared burden of proof .
we were also right to decide against including sex discrimination in this directive because there is already a separate european directive on sex discrimination , which will , in fact , be revised further to the commission proposals and which is founded on a much stronger legal basis , about which parliament , in fact , may decide in codecision .
what is important , however , is that the european parliament should advocate that double discrimination , which often victimises older women and disabled women , should be tackled here .
thirdly , my group applauds the decision to delete the non-exhaustive list of so-called justifications of differences of treatment on the grounds of age .
we are also delighted with the provision in the directive which stipulates that equal treatment for the disabled also means that companies are expected to make the necessary adjustments within the workplace .
finally , commissioner , i would like to say how excellent this work is .
let us hope - and i am relying on you , commissioner - that the european commission will now come forward with proposals , pursuant to article 13 , to fight discrimination on grounds other than those to be found in the workplace .
mr president , the excellent work of both rapporteurs completes a remarkable series of reports by this parliament on the implementation of article 13 .
this first year of the 21st century has shown the eu institutions determined to entrench non-discrimination as a basic european value and fundamental human right .
the right of all human beings to equality before the law and protection against discrimination is a basic right .
the community must supplement them with political and practical programmes that can actually be implemented .
therefore , we are providing funds for turkey to use as it likes without any obligation to eliminate the worst form of discrimination , which is a combination of all forms of discrimination in that , if there is discrimination against kurds in general now , discrimination against kurdish women , people of kurdish origin with deviant sexual tendencies and disabled people of kurdish origin will soon follow .
i would like to remind you that the first action of the members of the bonino list this parliamentary term was to promote a proposal for a resolution on the fight against discrimination based on sex .
mr president , this afternoon , we are discussing two of the three commission proposals in which anti-discrimination legislation on the basis of article 13 of the ec treaty is proposed .
it appears to be putting more distance between beliefs and practical attitude to life and , as a result , institutions are even further restricted in living out and maintaining their own identities .
absolute freedom of religion is impossible , as is absolute equality .
discrimination in the sense of treating people as inferior , taunting them and putting them at a disadvantage is an evil that must be eradicated .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are all glad that there is an article 13 in the treaty of amsterdam because it finally puts an instrument in our hands and gives us the task of creating a comprehensive programme to combat discrimination .
the commission has submitted an action plan until the year 2006 .
i do , however , have problems with mr cashman ' s report , which is peppered with 17 proposed amendments .
my second point is the problem that ngos , important as they may be , are being asked to be involved in implementing the programme regardless of their size , nature and activities .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , this week is an important week as far as the debates in this house are concerned .
we are thereby boosting the positions of the european union regarding the practical situations experienced by european nationals in connection with discrimination and equal treatment .
in this regard , i cannot accept the muddle that some parties are making of the necessary anti-discrimination measures , equal treatment and the mention of other cases of prohibition .
the proposal for a directive discussed in the mann report is a key one , and i should like to discuss it briefly .
i should like to express our reservations on this difficult issue and restate our commitment to the principle of secularism , especially in the context of the fight against discrimination .
one last word on the discussion which may ensue on the need to maintain statistics on the subject .
mr president , commissioner , our group has evaluated both reports with positive results and would , in particular , like to emphasise the fact that we have all focused on the need to expand the programme 's scope with a series of amendments - which , in actual fact , have led to another survey on discrimination - intended to guarantee equal treatment to all people , irrespective of their sex , race , ethnic origin , religion , personal convictions , age or sexual orientation .
yet we were even more impressed by fact that , at the end of the report , provision was made for an evaluation of the outcome of the processes and programmes , for this is also a guarantee of fairness , impartiality and transparency .
i feel that this is a highly positive and constructive process , considering , also , that the results can be made available to the public and used to improve the quality of subsequent actions .
mr president , i too would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and those working on the equivalent opinions on their commitment to this work and their willingness to cooperate with all of us in this house who wish to see progress in combating discrimination .
the importance people attach to this has been reflected in the fact that i have received more lobbying on this directive than on any other so far in this session and from a wider range of people .
the aim of this work , based on article 13 , is to make equality of opportunity a reality by removing that smiling face that so often cloaks prejudice and bigotry , predominantly in the workplace .
employers will now have to be clear and transparent in all aspects of their employment policy and practice and able to justify the choices they make on the basis of the real job requirements .
my group welcomes both the framework directive and the proposed community action programme and sees them as an important step towards tackling prejudice in other aspects of people 's lives .
for that reason we shall be supporting amendment no 18 to the mann report which calls for member states to repeal all penal code provisions discriminating against homosexuals .
or , does it mean , as i would hope , that we should learn the lessons from the clinton experience and all behave appropriately in the workplace , whatever our sexual orientation .
in dealing with religion , my group welcomes amendment no 37 to the mann report .
it is important that , while we recognise the desire of organisations based on a particular religion or belief to employ people who share their views , it is also right that this desire should not become a reason to deny employment to people who are perfectly qualified to carry out a job which is not directly connected to that belief and who conduct themselves appropriately while at work .
age discrimination is also rife and no voluntary code can really combat gratuitous discrimination .
yesterday , for example , the charter of fundamental rights condemned discrimination , not just racial discrimination but even , according to the charter , discrimination on the basis of birth .
in affirming the principle of equality , all the constitutions of the world virtually establish a principle of constitutional jus cogens , since discrimination is prohibited everywhere .
on the other hand , however , for forty years there have been texts in existence which are actually based on discrimination .
in geneva in 1963 , the first of these , unctad , united nations conference on trade and development , established the principle of compensatory inequalities or , in other words , discrimination .
our own lome convention itself is based on discrimination in favour of the caribbean and pacific states .
our entire dispute with the united states , moreover , has arisen because we wanted positive discrimination in favour of our own acp banana producers whereas the united states wanted an egalitarian system which would serve the interests of multinationals .
europe itself , with the gsp , the system of generalised preferences , which leads us unilaterally to give up our customs duties to the benefit of a whole series of states , is based on discrimination .
and the national laws in our 15 countries also practice discrimination , including the socialist france of the socialist mr jospin .
not everyone in the olympic games gets through to the final .
so , in sociological terms , there is the risk of abuse .
the principle of non-discrimination is a fine one , mr president , but it also has a flip side .
in general terms , i agree with the emphasis placed on the development and growth of cultural tools to fight discrimination : in my opinion , we must combat discrimination with a culture of non-discrimination , making up-to-the-minute , accessible information available to all the citizens of all the member states .
in fact , information and awareness campaigns are vital in this area : they must act as hammers to forge new mentalities and bring about a new way of thinking and behaving , in order to drive out those prejudices which are still widespread and to ensure equal rights for all citizens .
mr president , the proposal for a council directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation extends the ban on discrimination beyond reasons of race or ethnic origin to other reasons which are used as a motivation for discrimination and which are mentioned in article 13 .
this means harmonising the acquired rights in a positive way in order to protect the weakest and most oppressed on the labour market and not , for example , in the name of equality , authorising night work for women .
it will also contribute to enhancing the image of europe in the eyes of the rest of the world , which is watching us especially closely , by actively demonstrating that europe is continuing to work hard to protect human rights and to promote solidarity and democracy .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , as is well known , many forms of discrimination still remain in the european union , specifically in employment and professional activities , even though they are prohibited under article 13 of the eu treaty .
it is therefore important to press forward with the two legislative initiatives that are now being debated , while improving them in certain respects and increasing the funds set aside for financing the programme , thus reflecting the political importance of this fight against discrimination .
so those who claim here that europe does not need to lay down in a directive the values which we all aim to defend are mistaken .
i welcome this directive as the first-ever eu law introducing europe-wide rights for our 37 million disabled citizens , an end to the back-door route to legislate for disability rights and a tribute to the disability movement which has campaigned for this day .
in particular the agreement of the principle of reasonable accommodation , pioneered in sweden and ireland , will now ensure that employers across europe adapt their workplaces , acquire specialist equipment and amend their working practices so that disabled employees really do get a fair chance .
mr president , if one thing singles out european society from the other societies of the world , it is precisely its sensitivity and commitment to the fight for freedom and human rights .
however , i would like to say that this fight is not the exclusive property of the left .
article 13 is the starting point for a new eu objective : to combat discrimination or inequality in the treatment of citizens for the reasons listed therein .
the action programme seems to me to be a serious programme .
i therefore consider that it is necessary to commit the public and private sectors to this task and , to this end , i believe that the public sector must provide an example .
finally , ladies and gentlemen , the media must also play an important role in this task .
it is incredibly important that we should now secure implementation of the package which is the first and interim realisation of article 13 of the ec treaty .
in that way , we should be taking an important step towards removing discrimination against minorities in the eu and the applicant countries .
this fight against discrimination is a fight that mobilises us all and it cannot be an exclusive banner for any political group in this parliament .
article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam threw up a challenge for the european union agenda , which gave the community specific powers to initiate a variety of actions to combat discrimination , so as to ensure the same level of protection for all disadvantaged groups .
i should like to congratulate the commission on the important step it has taken in initiating this process of implementing article 13 through the package of proposals that it has presented to combat discrimination .
experience has also shown us that the promotion of anti-discrimination legislation is essential but it is not enough .
i should also like to stress the importance of involving the countries applying for membership as much as we can in these community actions to combat discrimination .
given the large number of discriminatory actions , decisions and attitudes which still appear today in europe , i am pleased with these reports which we are debating today and which contain certain points which i feel to be particularly noteworthy .
firstly , we must insist on the need to bear in mind , when implementing the concrete actions of this programme , article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam , which is the pivotal instrument in the fight against discrimination in the european union .
secondly , we must highlight the particular discrimination suffered by certain social groups , women , the disabled , immigrants , homosexual men and women , the elderly and ethnic minorities and , within these groups , we must insist on the importance of monitoring and implementing concrete measures in the fight against cases of multiple or double discrimination , which occur especially in the case of women .
we therefore have to stress the need to integrate the gender element into all areas of the fight against discrimination and , in parallel , i wish to ask the commission to make a clear and decisive effort to achieve coherence between the directives , recommendations and programmes against discrimination , giving this house a leading role in the establishment of priorities , the carrying out of an assessment of the effectiveness of the actions proposed today in this programme and the revision , if necessary , of the actions and decisions taken within this action programme .
lastly , the european parliament must be kept informed , taking account of the reports and opinions produced by this house , and we must highlight the importance and necessity of truly making use of the opinion and participation of the ngos and associations - and providing them with the necessary resources - since they are without doubt the key to the success of the measures adopted .
mr president , discrimination on religious grounds is as unacceptable as any other form of discrimination .
a spiritual dimension is vital to europe .
ladies and gentlemen , at the time of the discussions regarding the treaty of amsterdam , we were delighted , myself in particular , at the inclusion of article 13 on discrimination on the basis of sex , race or ethnic origin , religion or philosophical convictions - non sectarian , i might add - handicap in any form , age or sexual orientation .
these proposals involve two draft directives and one action programme intended to support the efforts of the member states .
it is extremely difficult , of course , both for me and for my fellow members , to give a precise opinion on measures of such great significance in just two minutes .
as regards the mann report on equal treatment in employment , and let me congratulate the rapporteur , i shall confine myself to pointing out that i am , personally , satisfied that it has been possible to reduce the number of permissible exemptions to a minimum .
mr president , the right to equal treatment and protection against discrimination is one of the fundamental human rights .
i am aware that there are also arguments in favour of guaranteeing european legislation for equal treatment within one market .
mr president , the draft council decision establishing a community action programme to combat discrimination initiates the process of implementing article 13 .
the family , for instance , remains a foundation and a pillar of our society .
among the most severely disabled , unemployment stood at 70 per cent .
this type of legislation is therefore needed , and often it is only minor measures that are required .
the debate in parliament was extremely interesting , and you have already highlighted the political importance of this directive .
i would also like to thank the committees involved for their support and cooperation in getting a coordinated view in such a short time .
it is important that the community action programme is adopted by the council this autumn so that we can avoid a gap between it and the preparatory actions which we are currently running .
prevention is the key to a long-term strategy .
i am aware of the difficulties and of the complication of the forms of these projects and i will try to simplify them .
i can also agree to highlight in future the importance of ngos , both as partners and as target actors participating in the actions themselves .
it will be important to involve as wide a range of types and sizes of ngos as possible to make sure that we benefit from the experience of these people who work every day with these issues .
i can accept your proposals to write into the body of the decision the limit of 90 % for the co-funding of such ngos , and we can justify this proposal because there are many particularities in these ngos .
in short , therefore , i can accept either as drafted or in spirit amendments nos 1 , 2 , 7 , 8 , 10 , 11 , 13 , 18 , 21 , 41 to 45 , 47 , 50 , 58 , 59 , 62 , 64 , 65 , 66 and 67 .
i can also accept parts of amendments nos 3 , 14 , 16 , 31 , 33 , 35 , 38 , 40 , 55 and 57 .
others risk creating an imbalance in programmes by an over-concentration on a particular aspect ; others again are not necessary to achieve parliament 's objective , as the ideas are either implicitly or explicitly already included in the decision , such as those on drawing on the experience of third countries .
the first one concerns disability , religion and age .
as far as the first category is concerned , disability , religion and age , the specific problems facing disabled people are acknowledged in the current draft where the provision to reasonably accommodate the workplace to the needs of disabled people is specifically foreseen .
this is a key provision for achieving equal treatment for people with disabilities .
your proposal is very useful , as discussions in the different institutions have shown that these terms were not fully understood .
now it has become clear that a number of factors such as the cost involved , the financial resources of the organisations and the possibility of obtaining public funds will determine if their accommodation would impose a considerable burden on the employer .
another key issue concerns religious organisations and the possibility of using the genuine occupation requirement clause in article 4 ( 2 ) .
i welcome your reference to this question in amendment no 37 .
i can also agree to the idea of extending the wording of article 4 ( 2 ) to include organisations providing services in a religious environment , as we realise that the wording of the commission 's proposal was very rigid .
the commission 's intention is to create workable rules for companies while at the same time prohibiting instances of discrimination which are arbitrary and not objectively justified .
however , i understand that this is a very sensitive issue .
the commission is ready to simplify the wording of article 5 for better understanding of this provision .
regarding the second category of amendments , it aims to clarify the text of the commission 's proposal .
in particular , amendments nos 9 , 10 and 20 propose the removal of the reference to discrimination based on racial and ethnic origin .
these references are contained in amendments nos 7 , 8 , 9 , 12 , 34 and 47 .
the commission can accept the spirit of all these amendments .
i would like to refer in detail to those amendments which i cannot accept because they present political or legal difficulties .
this kind of provision is not appropriate in a directive on a framework proposal .
we all know that this is very important , but i must stress that in some member states the collection of this kind of data infringes constitutional provisions on the protection of privacy .
i cannot accept your references in amendments nos 21 and 45 to natural and legal persons and non-formalised groups of persons , as this employment proposal only applies to individuals .
you propose in amendment no 52 , by analogy with the directive on racial discrimination , to incorporate a provision on independent bodies to monitor compliance with the provision of the directive .
i also have difficulties with amendments nos 19 and 35 , in which you propose a time-frame of three years in order to equalise the scope of the discrimination legislation for all the grounds referred to in article 3 .
it is impossible to refer to this time-frame in a directive , but the implementation of the action plan will help us to see how we can move forward with the other amendments .
to summarise , i can accept , either as drafted or in spirit , amendments nos 2 , 4 , 5 , 8 , 10 , 12 , 14 , 23 , 24 , 26 , 30 , 34 , 40 , 49 , 50 , 51 and 54 and also parts of amendments nos 7 , 9 , 13 , 20 , 25 , 29 , 36 , 37 , 41 , 42 , 46 , 47 , 48 , 58 , 59 , 60 and 61 .
this very large number of accepted amendments proves the excellent cooperation between the commission and parliament .
in conclusion , some members of parliament referred to the need for cooperation about , or the implementation of , directives like these in the applicant countries .
this directive must be part of the social acquis in the applicant countries .
it is the first time that we allow joint projects in this action programme .
applicant countries can cooperate with the member states and submit joint projects and joint proposals and this is very important for them and for us also .
some of the members have referred to the particular problems that turkey has with the kurdish language and the problems in turkey .
i consider that the community could support and select any kind of project that the turkish government submitted in the framework of this action plan .
i had to reply to more than 50 different points and amendments and i am very optimistic that these amendments will be adopted during the french presidency .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon .
yet we have a code , thanks largely to the initiative of the british foreign secretary , robin cook , proof once again that where parliament leads today , the council will eventually follow .
yet it is clear from the annual report that it has worked better than all expectations , including those of the member state governments who approached this project with great suspicion .
the code of conduct has led to greater mutual understanding , greater transparency and a greater convergence of member states ' policies .
effective and coherent eu policy on arms exports is essential if the eu is to pursue its external objectives , particularly given that we have so many areas of instability on our borders .
you cannot seriously pursue conflict prevention and peacemaking without controlling arms exports , particularly small arms .
the council annual report itself identified the need for a common list of military equipment to be established .
the code , however , is only a political commitment between member states .
article 7 of the code commits member states to prevent exports being diverted to undesirable end users .
they should be better coordinated and more effective .
it is clear that many weapons find themselves in the wrong hands because of the activity of arms brokers .
i was stunned recently to discover that there are up to 300 arms brokers in the south-east of england alone .
lastly , the greatest safeguard against abuse of arms exports is transparency .
the annual report is a large step forward but its transparency depends on the transparency of the national reports which it is created from .
since 1997 my own government has published annual reports on arms exports which have been praised for their transparency .
i still feel that this must be our approach , that we must not give in before the inevitability of war and conflict and that the defence policy must not provide for large-scale arms production , but that europe must adopt an defence policy of intervention where it is not weapons that count but the ability to intervene peacefully in order to find non-violent solutions to disputes .
mr president , commissioner , in taking the floor on the extremely difficult subject of arms sales , i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the manner in which he has managed to clarify matters for parliament in the outstanding and comprehensive explanatory statement in the motion for a resolution which is being discussed today and which will be voted on tomorrow in this house .
this statement focuses on the fear shared by the majority of our fellow members , that arms of all kinds manufactured by the european union may , if exports are not effectively controlled , be used by countries or armed groups that do not respect international law or human dignity .
since this dream , as you rightly termed it , mrs morgantini , still remains today in the realms of utopia , as i fear it will for a long time to come , we should , as proposed , highlight instead the positive results that have already been obtained by applying the code of conduct and propose all the measures that are desirable and applicable in order to improve the efficiency of this method .
the pse group sees this as a good start but a code is no law .
we continue to strive for legislation which is more binding and more up to date , in view of the developments within the arms market and in the arms industry .
having said this , i would naturally like to congratulate the rapporteur , mr titley on his excellent report .
this requires more cooperation in the field of arms production and arms export .
we feel we should continue to work on this code and ensure that it can lead to a common arms export policy in due course .
the proliferation of light weapons remains disconcerting , even close to home , in the balkans , for example .
in a sense , these arms have come to symbolise anarchy in many areas worldwide .
it is only by complementary action such as this that we can move towards a more sustainable security in europe and the world , one that is founded on disarmament and stability .
sweden participates actively , too actively i am inclined to say , in the development of a common weapons policy , but that is something different .
unfortunately , practice has shown that these are often countries which should not be supplied with arms in the interests of conflict prevention .
think of the warring parties in congo and countries in the middle east .
a useful addition to mr titley ' s practical proposals could perhaps be the introduction of a licensing system to finance the trade in weapons used in war , as well as to settle arms deals .
monitoring the money circuit is bound to make it more difficult to avoid arms trade regulations .
indeed , as esdp becomes operational , issues such as arms exports must be seen as forming part of a comprehensive approach .
our aim must be coherence and that i take to be a very important underlying message in the report .
the eu code of conduct establishes a set of detailed principles governing conventional arms exports .
these aim at preventing the export of weapons to governments which abuse human rights , to areas of conflict or to regions engaged in arms races .
it is clear that the ultimate responsibility for arms exports belongs to national governments .
the code has been in existence for one year and , as acknowledged in the first annual report , member states ' initial experiences of its operation during this period were positive .
a few weeks after the adoption of the code , the associated countries of central and eastern europe and cyprus plus iceland and norway issued a declaration aligning themselves with the criteria and principles in the code .
since then many of those countries have made considerable efforts to comply with the code .
the european union is committed to combating the destabilising accumulation of small arms in many parts of the world .
the commission , in close collaboration with the member states , was actively involved in the drafting of the european union joint action on small arms and light weapons .
we fully intend to strengthen policy in this area as part of a coherent approach .
we are committed to providing financial and technical assistance to countries , international organisations , regional arrangements and ngos , as proposed by the joint action .
under the eu project in cambodia , technical , administrative and financial support is provided to the government and to selected ngos for actions aimed at promoting the control , collection and destruction of weapons .
the european union is currently considering the continuation of the project beyond its expiry date in november of this year .
these could result in politically or legally binding instruments and a comprehensive international programme of action for the small arms problem .
the point i believe is to see our efforts in this regard as part of a comprehensive approach to arms policy in general and as part of the overall endeavour to make esdp coherent .
it proposes guidelines for future union research activities , for the period 2002-2006 , and more especially for the union 's future research framework programme .
the aim is to define the specific contribution that this will make to the creation of a european research area .
the initial results will be presented to the european council meeting scheduled for next march , which aims to address general economic and social issues .
but it is clear that the union 's research framework programme also has a more specific role to play .
the guidelines set out in the communication adopted this morning have been defined with this in mind , on the basis , in particular , of the conclusions of the report on the five-year assessment of research programmes , drawn up by a panel of independent experts , and the mid-term review of the fifth research framework programme , carried out by the commission .
a real concentration of efforts in areas where action at community level will generate a plus : that of european added value .
the introduction of types of intervention of longer duration ; half-way houses between support for projects and institutional financing , the use of the variable geometry instruments available under the treaty , and , more specifically , european union participation in national programmes , as provided for in article 169 of the treaty .
in tangible terms , there is , among other things , a proposal to have recourse to formulae such as the networking of national programmes through support for the mutual opening-up of programmes and , above all , european union participation in programmes carried out in a coordinated fashion ; the creation of european networks of excellence by networking existing capacities in the member states around joint programmes of activities ; the carrying out of large targeted research projects conducted by consortia of companies , universities and research centres , on the basis of overall financing plans ; greater backing for regional and national efforts in support of innovation and research conducted by small- and medium-sized companies ; reinforcing and diversifying action in support of research infrastructures of european interest ; the increasing and diversification of mobility grants and , in general terms , measures in the field of human resources .
these new methods of intervention are the result of new methods of management .
the guideline document adopted today is designed to trigger debate immediately , beginning with debate within the institutions .
on the basis of the outcome of this debate , the commission will present its formal proposals for the research framework programme for 2002-2006 , next february .
these proposals will become part of a series of specific communications , each of which represents a contribution to the establishment of a european research area .
this is the discussion on criteria that we will be having with the member states , of course , and also with parliament .
it has an important role to play .
you are well aware of the need to centre the actions of the joint research centre on areas in which it can fulfil this role of european added value , by virtue of the fact that it does not depend on the private sector and is independent of the member states .
this is a very striking example of what we have achieved in this area .
with regard to the actions that we propose , page 16 of the policy paper sets out the new ways in which we are thinking of working , with greater decentralisation towards associations and towards national structures .
the mobility group has been set up at commission level , with the various member states , and is to hold its first meeting on 20 october .
this group consists of the representatives of research ministers , but also actual ministers for social affairs and home affairs , to overcome obstacles to mobility , such as problems concerning pensions and freedom of movement on european territory .
in a resolution quoted by yourself , which was adopted in this parliament on 18 may and for which i was rapporteur , i recommended multi-disciplinary teams for research , since innovations often occur on the cutting edge of different disciplines .
i would also like to ask you to award particular attention to the relations between the stoa unit and matters that concern your directorate for which you have responsibility , because problems exist in this regard .
i feel that what is currently required is something that structures the european research area , which is to say something that goes beyond the framework programme and supplements national programmes ; we need a structuring element , which means that we have to agree on certain rules .
yes , with an opening-up of the national programmes of several member states onto an area with european added value , the commission and the union can intervene .
but they must intervene by applying criteria that facilitate access which is as broad as possible for all the elements of the european union , which is to say for all the member states , and even for third countries too .
we have never made use of article 169 of the treaty ; this article could be used to harness more frequently and more cohesively the activities of the various member states .
the third paragraph of page 9 of the document reads as follows : " need to combine complementary expertise in the different countries , particularly in the case of interdisciplinary issues , and to carry out comparative studies on a european scale " .
in many fields , it is immediately apparent that certain basic research elements are , in fact , applied research elements .
the current framework programmes are therefore a mixture of basic research issues and applied research issues .
as concerns discussions with the stoa unit , i feel that we have to act together , since this is something that concerns this house , the joint research centre and the technological foresight institutes in the various member states .
i would therefore welcome any form of debate or discussion on this issue .
as concerns the euro-mediterranean context more specifically , i believe that you too will have noted the interest shown by the countries on both sides of the mediterranean in conducting joint research and technological development activities .
i , for my part , believe that these are key factors for increasing understanding among researchers and their mobility around the mediterranean basin .
in any case , these were the conclusions that the ministers for research and science reached on this subject at capri last weekend .
you will have three examples of this in the policy paper , and i hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss this matter again soon .
if i am unable to give you an immediate reply on this today , it is because it was precisely my intention , in this policy paper , to invite the member states to adopt a position , for there will never be a european research area if it stems solely from the will of the commission .
the commission and the framework programme only account for 5 % of research-related public expenditure .
there can therefore be no talk of a european research area if we are only responsible for 5 % of that research .
we are going to draft a communication on this subject .
i indeed feel that , in europe , research and development must be conducted with the citizens .
there is a whole series of avenues that must be explored in the field of social and economic research , in the fields of foodstuffs , new technologies and , in particular , biotechnologies .
in any case , the type of research that could be labelled ' disinterested ' , which is to say research that has no commercial goal , is often the type of research that produces the best results in economic and basic terms .
your question is very relevant , but we will have to wait to see what happens in practice .
much targeted research has a highly prominent commercial aspect , but there are also more basic forms of research which serve general european union policies and , at times , also have beneficial spin-offs for commercial interests .
this is therefore a bottom-up operation to be carried out not with hyper-centres , but with different teams working as part of a network .
thank you very much , mr busquin .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0540 / 2000 ) .
given that the amendments to the rules governing this fund have been extremely limited in scope ( unlike those affecting the structural funds ) , how can the commission justify the fact that the rate of implementation for the first half of 2000 is lower than 1 % ?
in the case of portugal , mrs torres marques , but above all in the case of greece , the number of projects received does not give me the same cause to hope for a satisfactory implementation of appropriations .
it is my responsibility to manage as rigorously and as actively as possible the european union ' s second largest budget , that for regional policy and the cohesion fund .
on the one hand , as a result of the efforts made to commit all the appropriations at the end of 1999 , there was inevitably a very sharp drop in applications for the financing of new projects at the beginning of this financial year .
on the other hand , as this is the first year of the new programming period , i have to say , and this is an objective assessment , that the cohesion fund countries , including your own , have centred their efforts on objective 1 programming .
otherwise , there will be a risk of certain cohesion fund appropriations made for the financial year 2000 being lost for ever .
you know that this fund has always been very well managed by the four countries and has always had 100 % take-up rates .
now , i also have some concerns in this area , some of which concern objective 2 , objective 1 and cohesion fund appropriations that date some way back .
i am simply observing , and i have given you the figures as at 26 september , that the appropriations actually committed by portugal , for the new period - i have only been a member of the commission for a year - stand at 2.6 % .
we will validate the technical content of these projects as swiftly as possible so that your country , like the other cohesion fund countries , is not made to suffer and is able to benefit from all the appropriations in question .
i provided all this information to the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism on 11 september , but , if you really wanted , i could arrange for this information to be transmitted to you this evening or tomorrow , in the form that it was submitted , in all transparency , to the competent committee on 11 september , under a month ago , for all the countries concerned .
because , once again , the general regulation treats the structural funds ( objectives 1 and 2 ) and the cohesion fund differently , and because , if i were forced to , i could not enter into reprogramming in the case of the cohesion fund .
in overall terms we had , as at 26 september , committed 17.6 % of the cohesion fund appropriations .
question no 2 by ( h-0730 / 00 ) : subject : fuel duty the current level of fuel duty in the united kingdom is very substantially in excess of that prevailing in any other member state .
this has a severely distorting effect on competition as between small and medium-sized undertakings in these localities and multinational or other large-scale undertakings operating throughout the united kingdom , as between tourist industries in these localities and hotel chains concentrated in large centres nearer to mainland europe , such as london , and as between farmers and fishermen in remote parts and farmers and fishermen more advantageously located .
however , this proposal instead met with heavy protest from certain member states .
in 1989 , the commission submitted a new proposal which was to offer more flexibility .
i would thus like to underline that the community minimum rates have not been reviewed since 1992 and that today , in practice , duty levels often far exceed the community minimum rates and also differ greatly from country to country .
as the honourable member pointed out , the duty on fuel and diesel used as motor fuel which applies in the united kingdom is the highest in europe , but duties on fuel oil and kerosene , at least if - and insofar as - these are used for industrial and commercial purposes or even for heating , remain far below the highest values applicable within the union , as is also the case with the duty on heavy fuel oil .
it is thus a mixed bag and it is not the case that all duties on mineral oils are higher in the united kingdom than elsewhere in europe .
for example , there is a company on the island of north uist which is engaged in quarrying and road maintenance .
it is good for employment and for social cohesion .
mr president , i would say to mr maccormick that the commission has no means of influencing the level of excise taxes for mineral oil products in member states .
i want to be clear and insist on this point , because , as i said in my answer in the first instance , the commission has made several attempts to get member states to agree to the harmonisation of excise taxes precisely to avoid distortions in trade which may arise as a result of the differences therein .
these derogations stem from article 8 ( 4 ) of directive 92 / 81 of the european union and are approximately 100 in number .
in the course of this examination , the commission will also answer the question of whether such derogations are an infringement of the treaty rules on state aid , because obviously a derogation may border upon fiscal state aid and if there is an overlap , there may be a case for the commission to take action .
excise duty is absolutely identical in all parts of the united kingdom .
for example , nuclear energy is a very clear case in point .
kyoto is important .
i should like to say to mr purvis that the matter of natural , regional disadvantages is probably a matter for the national governments since a part of their electorate lies in those outlying areas and peripheral regions .
question no 3 by ( h-0743 / 00 ) : subject : budget line for minority languages the budget line of the european union for minority languages was introduced in 1983 and increased steadily to reach a peak in 1995 with eur 4 million .
this is all the more surprising in that the european union is moving closer towards enlargement to the east and the question of minorities is becoming increasingly important as a result , particularly in the context of a proper exchange of information .
furthermore , activities hitherto - for example , the creation of an online network for regional and minority languages , operated by the european bureau for lesser-used languages and the three mercator centres - have had a very positive response .
the commission has not entered in the budget any specific appropriations for the financing of projects directly intended to promote regional or minority languages , for reasons that i will now attempt to explain .
the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 between parliament , the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure specifies that appropriations relating to activities with no legal basis - as with the case in point - for projects concerning the promotion and safeguarding of regional and minority languages and cultures , may be entered in the budget for only three financial years at the most , and on condition that the establishment of a legal basis for them is subsequently envisaged .
for example , preparatory activities designed to encourage the use of digital content on worldwide networks in order to promote linguistic diversity in the information society - culture 2000 , media - insofar as the projects proposed contribute to the achievement of the objectives of these actions .
christoph pan entitled " volksgruppen in europa - ein handbuch " [ nations in europe - a handbook ] , which listed some 60 minority groups in the european union , 300 in the continent of europe .
out of a total of 750 million inhabitants , 100 million belong to minority groups .
as the author is not present , question no 4 lapses .
question no 5 by ( h-0762 / 00 ) : subject : campaign against child sex tourism since 1998 ecpat sweden has been running a project for a code of conduct for tour operators against child sex tourism with a view to persuading tour operators to undertake to eliminate demand for this type of tourism .
the commission agrees on the importance of the fight against child sex tourism .
the commission will pursue its actions to protect human dignity by preventing and combating violence against children , including child sex tourism , in the field of cooperation in justice and home affairs .
in the past the commission 's executive tasks have increased while its political and legislative work has decreased in relative terms .
in particular activities financed by small budget lines will be reduced because they are very intensive in terms of human resources .
the sex tourism information and awareness campaigns have had an important role to play .
discontinuing support for the information campaign does not , however , mean that the commission will abandon its other activities to protect children against violence and abuse , notably the stop programme .
the commission is preparing a proposal to renew the programme later this year and child sex tourism will be one of its concerns .
the commission is also preparing legislative proposals on the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography in accordance with the conclusions of the tampere european council .
nevertheless the commission will , in close collaboration with the member states , continue to play an active role in developing and maintaining a coherent european policy to protect children against violence .
thirdly , each presidency must clearly have its own programme .
i hope that we can find a solution in conjunction with the wto and in such a way that the three remaining months of this year may be sufficient for activating this budget line .
indeed many smes are still not fully aware of the implications of the changeover for their businesses , particularly as regards the legal tax and accounting rules and their software .
the commission and member states are currently stepping up their efforts to provide information to remedy this situation .
mr president , what interests me most is how the euro-debate will go on from here , after the referendum in denmark , and what changes the commission intends to make to the information strategy ?
mr president , very briefly , 11 countries have accepted the euro .
as the author is not present , question no 7 lapses .
question no 8 by ( h-0724 / 00 ) : subject : foodstuffs hygiene and hunting the commission has recently submitted proposals concerning foodstuffs hygiene , com ( 2000 ) 438 .
mr president , the proposal on food hygiene referred to by the member in question is a consolidation and simplification of the existing set of hygiene rules contained in 17 different directives .
these include directive 92 / 45 of 16 june 1992 on public and animal health problems relating to the killing of wild game and the placing on the market of wild-game meat which already lays down a number of hygiene rules with respect to wild game .
with the new proposal , the existing food hygiene rules have been simplified .
already at present there is an obligation in finland to present moose that is shot and sold to restaurants for inspection by the competent authority and some member states already apply the rules as proposed .
mr president , i should like to thank the commissioner for his answer , and i have a supplementary question .
the fact is that elk hunting is extremely widespread in sweden and finland .
question no 9 by ( h-0738 / 00 ) : subject : live animal transports a new commission report on a mission that it carried out in france in november 1999 and a recent investigation in italy by compassion in world farming and animal angels , show that several member states are still not properly enforcing council directive 91 / 628 / eec on the protection of animals during transport ( as amended by 95 / 29 / ec ) .
i share the concern that has been expressed that rules on the transport of animals are not being sufficiently enforced in certain areas .
while member states are responsible for the day-to-day enforcement of community legislation , the food and veterinary office of my directorate-general undertakes specific control and inspection missions to check that member states apply community legislation in an effective and uniform manner .
the competent authorities of the place of departure must check in particular that completed route plans have been returned and verify that the journeys have been carried out according to the plans .
the commission is currently monitoring the situation in both cases .
if it appears that a member state repeatedly fails to enforce community legislation , the commission would consider opening an infringement procedure under article 226 , as has already been initiated against other member states in relation to the protection of animals during transport .
i will present a report on the implementation in the member states of the community legislation on the protection of animals during transport to the council and to the european parliament .
when this report has been concluded , i intend to present proposals to improve the transport of animals and the problem of insufficient enforcement of the travelling time limits will be addressed .
i want to ask in particular about the border post of gorica between slovenia and italy .
as i indicated , the commission is currently working on a report on the operation of an animal transport directive in the member states .
question no 10 by ( h-0755 / 00 ) : subject : adverse effects of imports of genetically modified seeds on cotton cultivation imports of cotton seeds contaminated with small quantities of genetically modified seeds originating chiefly from the usa have caused serious problems for cotton growing in greece and will have adverse long-term consequences .
these problems have arisen because the eu and the greek government have deliberately neglected to set up the necessary community or national legal framework to prevent imports of seeds and propagating material contaminated with genetically modified organisms from third countries .
since the above omission has still not be rectified , despite the adverse consequences it has caused , will the commission say what measures the eu intends to take to prevent imports of seeds and propagating material contaminated with genetically modified organisms in future ?
under the current council directive 92 / 20 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms , products containing or consisting of gmos may not be placed on the market unless consent has been given under the provisions of this particular directive .
although this is not yet reflected in the relevant community seeds legislation , this principle would apply also to those seed lots of conventional plant varieties of the different genera and species , including cotton , which contain impurities of eu-unapproved genetically modified seeds .
the commission white paper on food safety has foreseen the need to amend the annexes of the existing directives on the marketing of seeds in order to first of all lay down the growing conditions and other requirements for purity concerning the adventitious presence of genetically modified seeds in seed lots of traditional plant varieties and secondly to lay down the details of the labelling requirements for seed of genetically modified plants .
the commission services are currently preparing a draft commission directive covering these issues and including cotton seed .
under this plan the member states would immediately organise testing of a significant number of seed lots of conventional varieties to determine the presence of gm seeds until the coming into force of related new community legislative measures .
i am pleased to report the standing veterinary committee responsible for seeds held a number of meetings in june , july and september on this particular issue with a view to reaching an interim agreement between member states as to how to deal with this kind of situation , pending the enactment of the legislation that i referred to .
however , having consulted with his services , i am in a position to inform you that essential safety requirements concerning computer equipment to be used privately or in the working place are prescribed by a directive relating to electrical products , the low voltage directive , as well as by the directive on radio equipment and telecommunication terminals .
there are also some safety requirements for eye protection at work in the directive on the safety in the workplace but none yet for private use .
the general product safety also puts an obligation on producers to provide consumers with information on risks .
for the more general question on the follow-up by member states to the council resolution on operating instructions for technical consumer goods , it should be noted that this resolution is addressed to member states and to the economic operators and does not involve any specific follow-up by the commission .
from a logical point of view i entirely agree.the difficulty in this issue is that the commission and the european institutions have far greater powers in legislation governing the workplace than in , for instance , legislation governing private homes .
the answer to your question is that the commission 's powers do not extend that far .
maryam ayubi 's case is extremely disturbing .
as the honourable member knows , iran 's penal code is based on islamic sharia law .
in february 2000 , the european union asked iran to introduced a moratorium on the death penalty in the wake of death penalties handed down against four student leaders .
the commission is very concerned at the poor human rights record in iran in general .
the recent parliamentary election in iran will we hope offer an opportunity to develop a more productive dialogue on human rights with the iranian government .
in doing this we will regularly review the progress of reform in iran including in the field of human rights .
consultations are continuing to determine the european union 's position which will of course reflect our deep concerns regarding the situation in iran .
if maryam did not live in a theocratic regime she would be free , she could enjoy the right to life , but as she lives in iran , she will be stoned to death .
we should do that bilaterally with the iranian government and , where appropriate , in international fora and we should certainly give every encouragement to those more moderate elements in countries like iran who believe , as the honourable member and i do , that human rights are universally valid and not some colonial implant .
question no 14 by ( h-0745 / 00 ) : subject : burma aung san suu kyi , the opposition leader and nobel prize winner , has ended up under what amounts to house arrest , and all contact with outsiders has been forbidden by the country ' s military rulers .
i join with the honourable member in expressing my admiration of aung san suu kyi and her fellow members of the nld .
today aung san suu kyi is now under de facto house arrest .
i am particularly concerned by reports that party members , waiting with aung san suu kyi at rangoon station two weeks ago , were attacked and even chloroformed before being evicted from the station premises .
the commission remains convinced that a lasting solution to the current situation must be based on agreement between the regime , the democratically elected opposition and the representatives of the ethnic minorities .
aung san suu kyi has long pressed for such a dialogue .
the eu 's attitude towards that ministerial meeting in vientiane and indeed , whether it should take place at all , or at what level the eu should be represented at it , will depend on developments in burma between now and december .
we will be watching developments closely but we should also be clear that the december meeting is about the eu 's political relations with asean as a whole .
we are determined not to let the behaviour of the regime in rangoon prevent us from developing our relations with the other nine members of asean .
if the european union is not prepared to call for economic sanctions then why not , for instance , suggest that the spdc should be challenged in the un and its legitimacy as the government of burma challenged in the un general assembly ?
as the honourable member knows , we have taken a number of tough measures in relation to the regime covering issues like visas and assets .
speaking for myself , though i have always wanted to go to burma and particularly to see bagan , i would not dream of going to burma in the present circumstances and i would advise other people similarly .
when it comes to the overall question of trade and investment , i will be absolutely candid with the honourable member about my assessment and about my concern .
my assessment is that the main reason why there is not more investment in burma is the policies pursued by the regime there .
one last point .
i think it is very important that the asean countries themselves put pressure on burma .
there are many living in wretched conditions outside the country in refugee camps and others living in wretched conditions within the country .
question no 15 by ( h-0769 / 00 ) : subject : democracy in kosovo what is the commission ' s view of the local elections in kosovo and the development of the various democratic forces in the run-up to them , and what are the region ' s medium- and long-term political prospects ?
mr president , the commission fully supports the decision of the un secretary general 's special representative for kosovo , bernard kouchner , to hold the kosovo municipal elections on 28 october and the efforts of the un mission in kosovo , unmik , to organise these elections .
within the un mission , osce pillar iii of unmik has lead responsibility for the elections .
eu member states provide the bulk of the osce budget , and the european commission has also provided eur 5 million for equipment for the registration process .
the european commission has full confidence in the ability of unmik to implement the results of the municipal elections in the short and medium term .
the elections are an important step in involving the people of kosovo in the running of their own communities .
as for elections beyond those for the municipalities , we must take one step at a time and ensure that the elections for the municipal administration are properly conducted and involve the people of kosovo more in managing their own affairs .
one thing we can all be certain of is that the electoral process in kosovo will be fair , unlike the electoral process in serbia .
the osce is responsible within unmik for the election organisation and for the sort of issues which the honourable member referred to .
maybe they do not yet have decorous televised debates with jim lehrer , with everybody avoiding being rude about one another , but they certainly have started their election campaign with a good deal of brio .
i happened to be there together with 200 other election observers from 52 countries .
as regards kosovo , it would have been better had it taken part in these elections , which were simultaneously presidential , parliamentary , regional and municipal elections .
questions 16 to 44 will be replied to in writing . ( the sitting was suspended at 7.45 p.m .
and resumed at 9.00 p.m. ) arms trade code of conduct ( continuation ) the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report ( a5 0211 / 2000 ) by mr titley , on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , on the code of conduct on arms exports .
as many of us said at the time in 1998 , we saw the code of conduct as a very important first step towards having common and responsible arms export policies .
it is important to recognise that , at a time when our european concerns can seem somewhat abstract and rhetorical , controlling weapons is a real way in which member states ' governments , the commission and parliament can demonstrate the positive benefits of being able to work together here for a common approach to arms control .
it is important to develop ways in which eu candidate countries can be brought into the information exchange and into consultation mechanisms .
candidate countries should also be involved in discussions on the further development and strengthening of the code .
the acid test of the code will be whether it deters undercutting .
in a democratic europe we have a right to know which countries are selling arms and where .
finally , arms fuel conflicts all over the world .
we urge our governments in europe to tighten up the controls on the movements of these lethal weapons .
mr president , the european defence industry is important , but at least as important is world peace .
mr titley ' s report provides a balanced response to this recurring theme .
it argues in favour of better and stricter controls in the arms trade and greater transparency .
the globalisation of world trade makes arms cheaper , more readily available and more difficult to trace .
needless to say , a stricter code of conduct only makes sense if the member states assume their own share of the responsibility .
some will claim that the code of conduct is not ambitious enough , but it is better to have a code of conduct which is flawed than not to have one at all .
this code of conduct is a first step in the direction of greater coherence , but i share the rapporteur ' s hope that we will not leave it at that .
mr president , the real solution to the whole problem of arms exports and arms production is that we should convert to non-weapons production .
the technology and expertise that is available should be used for something constructive in society , something that will benefit people rather than something that is going to annihilate and destroy people .
countries with very few resources and very little money are coerced and forced into buying weapons when they should be using that money for social and health problems in their own countries instead of contributing to insecurity in the region and in many cases to the abuse of their own people with these weapons .
in northern ireland , where there is a so-called peace process one of the big companies that has come there and been welcomed with open arms is raytheon one of the biggest arms manufacturers in the world .
we place our hopes for a world without conflict and weapons in the universal , peaceful and , more generally , popular movement .
mr president , special attention deserves to be paid to the european parliament ' s first report on the export of arms since the member states adopted a code of conduct on this matter in 1998 .
the supervisory mechanism must above all be extended to the light , small calibre arms used in a great many regional and ethnic conflicts throughout the world , which are often turned against the civil and military personnel of eu countries .
mr president , i fully share the hope and the opinion of mrs morgantini and mr brie , whose first amendment clearly states that the union ' s aim must not merely be to establish a code of conduct on arms exports , but to work for international disarmament and to end the arms race altogether .
whatever the case , arms exports exist and it is therefore useful and it is a step forward to have a code of conduct on arms exports , which sometimes run counter to the principles that should be the identifying features of the european union : conflict prevention and the defence of human rights .
we should therefore take this opportunity to make the code more efficient and to ensure that our young soldiers engaged in peace missions do not have to confront , as they occasionally do , arms exported by the european union .
we have a situation in which the sale and manufacture of arms constitute a massive waste for humanity , a situation in which the market for this highly individual trade consists of present , future and potential wars of a kind which tear the world apart , and in which arms expenditure and local wars are an exacerbating factor in the underdevelopment of a large part of the planet , and yet the european parliament proposes to regulate , and lend moral legitimacy to , a trade that has no use for ethical codes and regulations .
the report even has the temerity to present arms exports as a means of preventing conflicts , combating poverty and promoting human rights .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
today 's debate marks an important step in the reform process that was initiated by the prodi commission just over one year ago .
it is the very first legislative proposal to be considered by this house as part of the reform package .
the proposal to separate the internal audit function from the ex ante financial control function flows directly from the recommendations formulated last year by the committee of independent experts , which parliament endorsed in my report of 19 january of this year .
in its first report the committee of independent experts stated that internal control and internal audit were entirely separate - even conflicting - activities , which do not belong in the same department .
they reached the conclusion that a priori control and internal auditing are activities which employ completely different techniques and address completely different concerns .
the arrangement whereby they have been kept together within the same dg should be reviewed .
with that aim in view , the human resources allocated to internal auditing should be greatly increased .
the court of auditors took the same view in 1997 , when it wrote that there was a latent conflict between the power to grant approval - and thus expenditure - and the responsibility for subsequently evaluating the same expenditure in accordance with the criteria for sound financial management .
the commission 's fast-track proposal seeks to implement the recommendation of the committee of independent experts by creating an internal auditor who operates separately and independently from the financial controller .
i have no doubt that its implementation will be one of the keys to the success of the reform package announced by vice-president kinnock in april .
the changes proposed by our committee are designed to clarify the commission 's text , to impose certain minimum reporting standards and to tailor the text more closely to the specific circumstances of the different european institutions , all of which are affected by any changes to the financial regulation .
first , the division of responsibilities between the financial controller and the new internal auditor must be clarified .
the financial regulation must also contain a job description .
our committee 's amendments seek to draw a clear distinction between the role of the financial controller who remains responsible for ex ante financial control , and the internal auditor , who is responsible for ex post control , and in particular reporting on the quality of management and control systems .
secondly , the commission 's proposal would have the effect of making the appointment of an internal auditor compulsory for all institutions .
while this makes sense for an institution with a large operational budget or those with a relatively large administrative budget , such as the european parliament and the council , it does not necessarily make sense for the other small institutions which have a financial control staff of no more than four .
while these institutions must have the option of appointing an internal auditor , it is sufficient to impose certain minimum audit requirements on the financial controller .
when the recasting of the financial regulation is completed , hopefully within one to two years , it must apply fully to all institutions .
some members of the committee have argued that the appointment of an internal auditor should be made compulsory for all institutions at this stage .
of course such a notion has superficial appeal , but if it leads to the appointment of at least 20 additional officials without a clear prospect of direct efficiency gains it should be resisted .
the third change to the commission 's proposals contained in my report is therefore the spelling out of a minimum reporting requirement .
one of the problems parliament has faced in recent years is a lack of standardised information on financial control from the institutions .
i therefore propose that both the financial controller and the internal auditor should produce annual reports detailing their activities .
finally , institutions must learn from each other instead of constantly reinventing the wheel .
my report proposes that the annual internal audit report produced in one institution should be made available to all other institutions to enable them where appropriate to apply the conclusions arrived at elsewhere to their own management and control systems .
parliament has not yet received the official text of the proposal but we have been able to see a preliminary version of the text and although i hope the full text will be forwarded to parliament soon i also understand the commission 's wish to ensure that the text is legally and linguistically watertight .
some in parliament have already referred to it as the " beast , " but it is going to be one of the most important items of legislation before us during the term of this parliament .
one of the key changes advocated by the commission is the abolition of the system of ex ante financial control .
we have therefore asked the commission to give us an undertaking that during the transitional period which is about to begin the system of centralised ex ante control will be maintained and will not be affected by the introduction of the internal audit function .
i would ask the commission to confirm today the undertaking it has already given parliament in relation to this point .
i would , however , like to make my personal point of view very clear .
as the committee of independent experts pointed out last year , most of the irregularities highlighted by the committee stem from decisions approved by the financial controller , that the supposed quality guarantee provided by the approval is a myth and put forward two strong arguments for changing the system .
the effort put into checking all transactions is clearly disproportionate , while sampling is unlikely to have sufficient deterrent effect .
the second and fundamental principle is that any retention of ex ante control runs up against the crucial objection that , de facto if not de jure , it displaces responsibility for financial regularity from the person actually managing expenditure to the person approving it .
although the court of auditors has never explicitly backed abolition of centralised ex ante financial control and we have yet to hear its views on the proposal at present before us , it has raised the possibility of moving to a different system .
in its 1997 opinion it wrote : " as for completely abolishing the requirement of prior approval , this would not be acceptable unless it were to be replaced by other procedures that provided at least equivalent safeguards and that could also involve financial officials other than the financial controller . " the commission 's challenge will be to convince parliament that it can create those safeguards .
it also means that ex ante control must still be required when the services request this .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the socialist group in this house supports mr van hulten ' s report and therefore also the unanimous decision and proposal from the committee on budgetary control .
so - nothing against an independent , internal audit service , to which we are giving the green light today with mr van hulten ' s report !
that is why i find it worrying that the commission is obviously still intending , as before , to introduce the new audit service not as a useful complementary service but as a substitute for the traditional financial control .
like several member states , i think there is still some doubt as to what this general reform will cost at the final count or what benefits it will produce .
i also believe that , as far as this is concerned , we need the advice from the european court of auditors .
we cannot make a decision until we have the proposal on the new financial regulations , and within the framework of the discussion on these new regulations , a number of aspects will need to be laid down definitively .
we will be backing all amendments which help clarify the division between financial control and internal audits , as currently proposed .
this may not be practical - it is indeed the case that only a few people deal with financial control in those institutions , but the principle that the person who gives ex ante approval also self-assesses after the event is wrong .
mr president , commissioner , mr van hulten ' s report was very broadly endorsed in the committee on budgetary control .
setting up an independent - and i emphasise the word independent - audit service is a step in the right direction and responds to parliament ' s requests in its january resolution on the reform of the commission .
the draft version of the reform of the financial regulation is still not available in all languages .
furthermore , the white paper states , quite unnecessarily , that at the end of the interim period , the council will be able to take into account whether or not the financial regulation has been approved .
we know what we want and it is the will of this parliament , but it is crucial that the transitional period should not be extended beyond what is strictly necessary .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the commission ' s great reform project as summarised in the white paper is primarily aimed at boosting efficiency , i.e. , at making a real improvement in financial management , covering in fact every aspect of the budget .
let me point out that we have already implemented a large number of these individual steps , be it in relation to workplace definition or to setting up a central financial service in the budgets directorate-general , to name only two important ones .
i personally will do my utmost to speed things up , so that parliament finally has this document in all the languages .
i really do appreciate the fact that mr van hulten made such personal efforts to find a good solution for this change to the financial regulation and thus to get this key component of the reform up and running .
that will not be the case , because we have decided - speaking only in terms of posts now - that 80 posts will be available for this ex ante control during the transitional period .
let me therefore thank you for your proposals and your opinions .
thank you very much , commissioner schreyer .
the debate is closed .
to this i would add two further observations : on the one hand , the number of minors with direct access to televisions and computers is constantly increasing and , on the other , there is a worrying increase in the broadcasting of violent images - portraying all possible types of violence - both in television programmes and over the internet .
i would also like to point out that article 22 , paragraph 2 of the directive explicitly specifies that all the member states must take appropriate measures to ensure that broadcasts by television broadcasters do not include any programmes which might impair the physical , mental or moral development of minors , in particular programmes that contain pornography or gratuitous violence .
however , in the light of these considerations , our task is to define the objectives which we can reasonably expect to achieve in order to be able to establish genuine , reliable protection for minors .
firstly , we must promote the development at national level of information and awareness-raising policies targeting families and the world of education in general .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , today we are debating a report that gave rise to much controversy when it was discussed in our committee , all sparked off by the term subsidiarity .
that is and remains mainly the task of member state legislation , although it certainly does not preclude a consensual agreement on certain basic values in a dialogue with all concerned at european level .
these questions are at the top of the agenda .
it is a question of the eu ' s political legitimacy in the eyes of the people - and time is rather pressing .
i entirely agree with the president of the commission about the need to prepare such a list along the lines of a constitution , and i am quite clear about the fact that the subsidiarity principle must be reinforced and that the eu must therefore refrain from making policy on the wide range of areas in which the political problems are not of a cross-border nature .
mr president , commissioner , our children access and use televised , printed and new media on a daily basis and as a matter of course .
these measures must not be restricted to television but must apply to all accessible media .
it happened on 17 september , close to home , in europe .
so when i hear some people stating in debates in committee that there is nothing to prove that television violence in all its forms may have a harmful influence upon children , i am , to put it mildly , surprised .
we are often alarmed at the television programmes our children watch .
the on-screen violence of all kinds to which children are subjected , whether it be on television or through the computer , has short- , medium- and long-term consequences .
with regard to the protection of minors in the media context , the definition of common criteria is therefore , of necessity , minimal , given the cultural , moral and social variations in our member states .
establishing minimum criteria is the very least the european union can do for its children .
the commission shares the view expressed in the report that cooperation between member states and the commission is essential if minors are to be better protected over the next few years .
the commission is also consulting the digital videobroadcasting group , or dvb , about the technical aspects of systems for protecting minors , particularly digital filters .
i should like to remind you that the commission has adopted an action plan designed to promote safer internet use and also to make users more aware of the problem .
i think too that , even if this public awareness campaign relates to the internet , it will also have a knock-on effect on television programmes .
in its report , parliament also invites the commission to encourage the creation of a think tank with the job of drawing up a memorandum containing the basic legal principles applied in the member states for the purpose of protecting minors in the media context .
the commission will respond to this invitation because , as you know , we are due to table the ' television without frontiers ' directive again in 2002 , with a view to testing the water .
i think it will be very important , in that context , to launch a broad debate on our society ' s responsibility where the media are concerned .
when i say society ' s responsibility , i am thinking not only of european governments but also of political responsibility at national level , the responsibility of media practitioners and the responsibility of parents and of society in general .
i am also very aware of the remarks made about education , about training in the interpretation of images and about making younger people more aware of the need to approach the media in a critical frame of mind and not to watch any old thing , at any time and in any way .
i would also say that the industry has already devised an international system of self-regulation called the internet content rating association , in which the commission participates .
where , finally , the protection of minors is concerned , i should like to point out that there is a council recommendation of 24 september on promoting national frameworks designed to ensure comparable and effective levels of protection of minors and of human dignity .
the objective of such a study will be to evaluate the effectiveness of the approach proposed , an approach based on the principles of self-regulation , and my officials have just set the work in motion and have sent a questionnaire out to the member states .
thank you very much , commissioner reding .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
evans , on behalf of the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport , on the proposal for a recommendation of the european parliament and of the council on mobility within the community for students , persons undergoing training , young volunteers , teachers and trainers ( com ( 1999 ) 708 - c5 0052 / 2000 - 2000 / 0021 ( cod ) ) .
mr president , this report covers a very important issue and one that has been prominent in my post bag for nearly six years .
they do not have the problems often associated with other age groups .
we have to ensure that the experiences of young people - students and others in the educational world - are positive .
nothing will be more damaging to their developing views , than if a report such as this fails to make progress or if it fails to deliver greater mobility or if it fails to at least start to demolish the barriers that confront educational mobility today .
since then , a great deal of work by my own staff , by parliament 's staff and indeed by the commission 's own staff , to all of whom i pay warm tribute , has presented us with what i thought , until today , was perhaps a worthy if not perfect report , certainly one that was satisfactory and would go some way to achieving my aims .
firstly , i understand that the commission now believes that all references to researchers to be outside the legal base as provided for under articles 149 and 150 .
specifically my report replaces the worthy international generalisations by , in effect , repatriating the decisions to the member states .
as with any parliament report , experience has shown that there is little chance of anything happening , or at best little possibility of uniformity across europe , if there is no monitoring .
for reasons which i understand , but which will have the effect of neutering the whole report , the commission will , i am led to believe , be rejecting amendments nos 46 to 51 .
commissioner , i say to you that without an action plan , without any indicators to see who is doing what , and how well they are doing , without assessment of progress , there will be so many discrepancies , so many complaints , so many letters in your post bag , so many students and teachers knocking at your door , and indeed so many meps lobbying you , that i suggest you will wish , even allowing for the constraints under which you work , that you had accepted the amendments i proposed and which i hope parliament will accept .
in conclusion , i was both pleased and flattered when this report was referred to by president chirac in his speech to parliament some weeks ago .
if the french presidency are now serious , then i suggest that council will have to work very hard to salvage both their and the commission 's reputation as a matter of urgency for i suggest the failure to endorse this report in its entirety will send all the wrong , and very confusing , messages to important groups of our society . , draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs . ( it ) mr president , as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on this proposal for a recommendation , i would like to express my satisfaction at the end document , which was the result of a joint effort by mr evans , mrs martens and myself .
i would draw attention , out of the amendments tabled , to the inclusion in this recommendation of the specific category of researchers , since this category was originally included in the green paper .
of all the petitions we receive , many relate either to mobility within the european union , and in particular that of students , researchers and persons undergoing training , or to the recognition of qualifications .
the commission needs to draw up a list of the problems encountered by european citizens , particularly with regard to the issues of freedom of residence and freedom of establishment and , most especially , with regard to their right to work , study and obtain recognition of their qualifications in other member states .
this list must be accompanied by practical measures such as the establishment of objectives to be achieved by the member states and the obligation on the latter to prepare periodic reports on the progress achieved .
student mobility would be improved if the periods of study completed in each member state , together with the qualifications and certificates acquired , were to be fully recognised within the european union .
the european commission should take ambitious initiatives designed , in the short term , to provide for the reciprocal recognition of academic qualifications between member states .
by responding to the problems of daily life , this european parliament and council recommendation should make it possible to bring europe closer to its citizens , in particular its youngest citizens who should be the forces involved in creating a european identity .
mr president , the 1996 green paper on mobility lists the obstacles to mobility .
it is about time that europe turned its attention once more to the sound implementation of programmes such as socrates and youth for europe .
it is thanks to these programmes that young people can come into contact with the thinking , the language and the culture of other countries .
in line with the 1996 green paper on mobility , this group should also benefit from the recommendations in this report .
as is apparent from the report by the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport , there are still many thresholds , and during my work visits in my country , i hear many complaints every time , not only about the obstacles to mobility , but also about the implementation level , the red-tape involved in applications , the number of bodies which carry out the same inspections and late payments .
the french presidency has prioritised improved mobility for this target group .
mr evans has done sterling work and thanks to sound cooperation , the culture committee approved the report on mobility unanimously last month .
this is a sign that the continuous obstacles to mobility which stand in the way of students , volunteers , university teachers and researchers should be swiftly removed .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , promoting the mobility of students , trainers and teachers is being seen as an ever more important part of the european strategy .
regarding our own problems in the education sector , we cannot steer away from the difficulties there are in approving study credits .
i am very glad that the rapporteur pays attention in his report to the opportunities for nationals of countries applying for membership to be included in the recommendations on mobility .
the most serious problems at present concern those coming from non-member countries .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to start by thanking mr evans and mr mantovani for their work .
commissioner , we call upon you to act incisively within the commission on this unresolved matter , so that , in full respect for national powers and sovereignty , we will indeed be able to talk of a europe of peoples , a europe of citizens , but also a europe of culture .
mr president , i would like to join my colleagues in thanking the rapporteur for the tremendous work which he has done on this report and also to congratulate the members of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on petitions who have drafted opinions .
this is a very sensitive subject because , as my colleagues have already pointed out to the commission and council , a lot of hindrances are put in the way of students , lecturers , people undergoing training and volunteers with regard to mobility within the community .
a survey carried out by the commission in 1998 on the erasmus programme , covering 10,000 students , showed that less than 50 % of the available places were actually taken up on a full-time basis and that over 60 % of the students who took those courses encountered financial difficulties .
we have spoken many times about mobility and the shortcomings that exist in its regard .
no , a number of member states will have to be forced to eliminate obstacles of a kind which may seem ridiculous .
what is more , most of the problems of which we are aware do not stem from the commission but from the member states and even the regions .
last saturday , i was in paris for a council of ministers for education , exclusively on the issue of mobility .
the rapporteur quoted president chirac ' s words on mobility .
in november , the ministers of education are going to take a decision not only on this recommendation , which is a small step in the right direction , but also on an action plan to be implemented in order to facilitate mobility and turn this into a reality .
at the council meeting in nice , mobility will be one of the items for discussion .
i should also like to say that the french presidency is not the only one to have made progress in this area .
our heads of state and of government and the regional and national governments have realised that education has a role to play if we want to develop the economic and social sides of the european union .
the creation of a europe of knowledge is therefore a very important step in the right direction , but we still have a very long way to go .
however , we shall get there .
i am also able to accept the following amendments , as reworded : 7 , 9 , 13 , 20 , 23 , 29 , 32 , 42 , 52 and 57 on the basis of the english text .
and , finally , i am able to retain the following amendments in part : 6 , 10 , 15 , 19 , 21 , 22 , 24 and 42 .
ever since the beginning , it has been more or less clear that researchers could not be part of the recommendation .
however , as is its proper role , parliament has exerted pressure for researchers to be included in the text nonetheless .
the commission has responded to parliament , and these problems were tackled in a communication adopted on 18 january on the european research area and , in the follow-up to this communication , commissioner busquin will be presenting a communication on the mobility of researchers .
allow me now to return to amendments nos 46 to 51 which , with a view to ensuring that the recommendation is followed up , request the member states and the commission to put in place a process which might be considered similar to the luxembourg process in the case of employment .
i agree with the objective , but there is an important reason why the commission has adopted the position it has on these amendments , and that is because , by accepting them as they stand and in their present proposed wording , the same problem would arise as when we speak about the action plan which the ministers and the commission want to have finished drafting by november .
following the communication of the 26 july on matching human resources to the institution ' s tasks , the commission cannot accept new tasks unless the budgetary authority allocates it the necessary resources for carrying these out .
it is a collegiate position adopted by the commission , in view of the decisions taken , in view of the peer group and in view of staffing problems .
a good start has been made .
we want there to be real progress on this issue in the real conditions in our regions and our member states .
it is a fine objective , and we should like matters to move more quickly .
thank you very much , commissioner reding .
the debate is closed .
yet , as we know , the process is incomplete and , as such , it is not firing on all four cylinders .
the experience of these last 50 years is confirmation of the fact that there is a constant need for a driving force : a non-exclusive vanguard made up of countries which are judged on their merits and which are convinced of the project 's worth and determined to see it through .
the commission must promote the common interests of the countries of the union and further the management of the economy .
the union must present a completely united front in matters of foreign policy , defence and common security .
enlargement is essential in ethical as well as political terms : we must provide the candidate countries with exactly the same opportunity to contribute to the great process of european integration that our countries have had in the past , benefiting from the growth of their own democracies and from the security enjoyed by western europe .
when the decision was taken on monetary union , we were aware that we were creating asymmetry , but we were confident that this would be eliminated in the move towards a common management of the economy .
the recovery of the european economy is now taken for granted .
the charter of fundamental rights was drawn up in response to the need to insert europe into the consciousness of civil society ; it is proof of the fact that european integration is not an artificial construction but one with a soul : european identity .
the european charter makes clear to the world and , even more importantly , ourselves , who we are and what we believe .
the scope of our community of values is more clearly defined and more advanced than we ourselves are sometimes wont to believe .
with the charter of fundamental rights , europe is taking a significant step forwards in the transformation of an area which has hitherto been predominantly economic into a common area of rights , by establishing values and rules which define the concept of european citizenship .
this can be achieved in several different ways : by inserting the charter into the new legal corpus or by attaching it as the preamble .
personally , i feel that the charter should form the first part of a constitution , ( applause ) the second part of which should be dedicated to defining the different institutions , their responsibilities and the relationships between them .
the determination of the european people to reform must be met with solutions which will allow federal institutions such as the european central bank to work together with other institutions that are organised on the basis of an intergovernmental model .
the consolidation of the values of democracy and human rights cannot be put on hold . ( applause ) the recent elections in yugoslavia have shown the intensity of the yugoslav people 's desire for freedom and of their democratic determination to bring about change .
as an italian citizen and as president of the italian republic , i have never tried to hide my pro-european convictions .
in the space of half a century , the union has changed the face of europe and transformed relations between our peoples .
the exacting work carried out by the european parliament , the council and the commission must , in the interests of the union , interact with member states ' initiatives .
we need determination , resoluteness and political will in following a path which has already been mapped out .
subsequently , with the entry into force of the treaty reforming the institutions , the union will be in a position to manage the new , more substantial and more weighty responsibilities for which it is currently preparing : welcoming the first new members to join , consolidating the common foreign policy , creating a common military force , implementing once and for all the area of freedom , security and justice and adopting the fundamental charter of the european union .
you have reminded us of the responsibility that europe has , within the international community , for establishing values in the fields of democracy and human rights , and of the dramatic events in the middle east .
we were particularly conscious of this , mr president , last september , when we welcomed the speaker of the knesset and the speaker of the palestinian legislative council , who came here together , to this very rostrum , to deliver a message brimming with peace and hope .
finally , you have demonstrated your confidence - and i would thank you for this - in the role played by the european parliament and in the cooperation between our institutions , and more especially between the european parliament and the commission .
the way in which this house received the very powerful speech made by mr prodi yesterday showed not only that this cooperation is harmonious , but also that we have shared ambitions for the future of europe .
i first addressed the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities on 11 july and , on 5 september , i made a statement about the monitoring centre for industrial change .
the second point relates to the new information and communication technologies .
thirdly and finally , i think the proposal to make implementation of the principle of equal treatment a selection criterion for any community aid or funding is essential to promoting equality .
it will be held on 27 october .
we will also be organising a conference on professional equality on 24 november , bringing together experts , social partners and company managers , to look at the obstacles in the career paths of women .
i shall not , however , be talking about the conference on professional equality so much as the issues i have put on the agenda for the ministerial conference on 27 october .
the three subjects on the agenda for the ministerial conference are balanced participation by women and men in decision-making , combining work and family life , and including equality in several structures of the european union council of ministers .
the first issue , women ' s participation in decision-making in all areas , shows the serious deficit women still suffer from today in comparison with men .
perhaps some of you remember the paris conference of april 1999 , when we reached agreement on a statement , but , with fifteen ministers , had great difficulty deciding on a plan of action with quantified targets .
very briefly , a reform of the constitution was adopted on 28 june 1999 in france , with the support of the prime minister and the president of the republic , and immediately afterwards we began debating a bill on parity , which was adopted on 3 may 2000 .
i feel sure that balanced participation of women in political decision-making would produce a genuine renewal of our whole political life .
such power sharing will bring with it other profound changes in economic , social and cultural life .
the beijing platform for action and the final outcome document of the united nations general assembly special session on beijing + 5 , last june , are along the same lines .
i also want to salute the commission ' s initiative - i think my information is correct , mrs diamantopoulou - in taking a decision to have parity between men and women within its committees and groups of experts .
the french presidency would like to make progress in this matter and hopes to approach its partners with proposals for quantified targets for giving women access to decision-making in all areas , the political arena , which i have already mentioned , but also economic and social sectors .
initial consultations undertaken by the french presidency confirm that this is a central concern in all member states .
a proposal on indicators to measure progress will be put before the council .
i am thinking of the evora seminar on maternity and paternity and the resolution on balanced participation by men and women in family life and at work .
indeed , as i always say in france , ladies and gentlemen , while a law to impose parity in politics is now within the bounds of possibility , it is more difficult to impose parity in daily life , domestic parity , by law .
let me add that i have also put this item on the agenda of the conference on professional equality of 24 november .
to give you a couple of examples : at the education council there is the issue of mobility of men and women students and teachers , because we have recognised that there is major inequality in mobility ; and at the internal market , consumption and tourism council there is an item on the development of electronic commerce so as to make it accessible to all , both men and women , because we know there is gender inequality in electronic commerce too .
going beyond the specific issues falling within the scope of my ministry , i want to mention three initiatives , very briefly .
finally , in a word , the fourth pillar devoted to equal opportunities reinforces the integrated approach to equality through gender mainstreaming and through specific guidelines .
the second initiative i want to mention relates to the social agenda to be submitted to the nice summit , next december .
as you know , the draft is the outcome of complex negotiations which were completed on 26 september .
i shall stress our commitment to having the articles relating to gender equality clearly set out in the charter .
i know i have already used up my speaking time so i shall be very brief , but there are a few things i need to make clear .
the second relates to the principle of non-discrimination , including that based on gender .
combining work and family life , entitlement to paid maternity leave , rights of a more general scope , such as the right to dignity and the right to respect for their physical and mental integrity , also appear in the charter .
any progress we make in one member state is progress for the other member states .
if national policies are enriched by community policies , then community policies must also be inspired by national experiences .
those of us who have previously heard her in parliament know that , with her as president-in-office of the council , we have a very committed spokesperson for women ' s issues , and that is something we need if our plans are to succeed at all .
all three reports - i shall return to the speech of the president-in-office of the council in a moment - call attention to the articles of the treaty of amsterdam and say that , in these , we have obtained a new and sound basis for working on the issue of equality in the commission and that we have also obtained a number of tools for implementing equality in the different member states in a way we were unable to do before .
we can say that almost all women have worked hard to achieve a better treaty where equality is concerned , and i therefore think that we can be quietly pleased with the fifteen men who sat and adopted the treaty of amsterdam and were therefore also involved in implementing the principles of equality , even though it cannot , of course , be said that there is much in the way of obvious equality in their own assembly .
because a great many of the countries have said that they want to hold referenda , we have the major task of conveying to women in the candidate countries that the eu is good for them .
in connection with the reports , i would also say - and the president-in-office of the council touched upon this , too - that one of the major problems in the eu is of course the big cultural differences .
this clearly shows that the countries have very different interests , but one of the things we have to work on is trying to find out where , in particular , we can make a contribution in the individual countries .
mr president , mrs pery , commissioner , the reports that the commission has drawn up on equal opportunities in 1997 , 1998 and 1999 are very important documents and the reference to the treaty of amsterdam is a significant step forward .
articles 2 and 3 of the treaty of amsterdam , covering equal opportunities for men and women and article 141 covering positive measures for employment are a guarantee for women that should take effect in all the policies of the european union .
they have a much smaller share in the labour market than men , a difference that is particularly accentuated in some countries , especially in southern europe .
we know that measures for combining family and working life particularly favour women , although research is still needed into the current situation of the family and the role that women play in it , which is no longer the traditional role , because society has changed a great deal , and at the same time , so has family structure .
it is essential that research should be carried out on the real situation of women in the various member states in order to guide the policies that need to be made if we are to achieve greater equality between men and women .
the percentage of women in work in the european union is much lower than that in the united states and japan , a level that only some northern european countries come close to .
european union policies should help them to take part in order to achieve greater equality between men and women .
we cannot verify this , for - and the rapporteur also mentioned this in her report - the goals of the policy are not clearly defined and cannot be measured .
this week we have taken a great step closer to a reunited europe .
we must monitor whether the directive on equality is really being incorporated into legislation .
mainstreaming is very important in the internal policies of the candidate countries , too .
the eu should pursue a campaign to combat violence against women throughout eastern and central europe .
the eu should also take the initiative and organise a un convention against the trade in human beings .
it must also be said that france ' s constitutional amendment to establish a policy of equal decision-making would perhaps be ideal as a source of inspiration not just in the member states , but perhaps also at european union level .
i would also like to mention one problem in the area of work and family life .
we must be very careful that young mothers and fathers do not freely surrender their rights because they are afraid of the problems they might encounter in working life .
for example , at noon we will be voting on two reports on discrimination and equal access to employment which both exclude gender on the grounds that gender is covered by policies other than discrimination policy .
both are possible , but they are also contradictory , because we know very well that flexibility creates more poverty , and next week ' s world march of women will make that point .
there is no equal opportunity , there is no real equality for women without autonomy and freedom as social rights , so that they can have control of their lives throughout their lives .
but where , pray , are the conditions for women ' s rights and equal opportunities in that enlargement ?
i am concerned about that and i urge the french presidency to be concerned about it .
mr president , minister , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , all of us here agree that equal opportunities for men and women must be pursued in all our policies .
first , because while women , like citizens in general , have the same ideas of what is fair and what is unjust , they do not have the same ideas about their role in the various cultures of the european union .
every abortion is a condemnation of our society , but never a condemnation of an individual woman .
more serious still , i also have the feeling that the institutions of the european union have the greatest difficulty developing a global vision of society in our countries .
instead of addressing everyone , we compartmentalise : minority after minority , ethnic group after ethnic group .
any kind of national attachment must be destroyed , european societies must be reduced to a collection of isolated individuals in small ethnic , sexual , social or other minorities , all run from a distance by a european state as distant as it is pernickety .
the polish delegation to the new york conference already had occasion to appreciate the arrogance of a part of the european delegation incapable of accepting other positions more measured than its own .
in spite of these remarks , we shall vote for this report because we are naturally in favour of equal opportunities , but what equal opportunities means most of all is respect for everyone .
this means , among other things , that men and women interrelate and need each other in order to do themselves justice as men and women .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it was certainly a sensible initiative on the part of the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities to compile a report on the commission ' s annual reports concerning equal opportunities for men and women in the european union , covering the period from 1997 to 1999 .
however , we are still awaiting the decision regarding a formal council of ministers .
other speakers have made the point : we want political action .
the fifth action programme will assist us in this , but we as a european parliament have already come some way ourselves .
i try to look at these reports from the point of view of women in wales , the constituency i represent , and consider how they are affected by this kind of progress and how they can get access to and use this kind of information .
i would support the request of the committee on women 's rights in this report for a major study of women in the eu and in the candidate countries as a starting point for future work .
greater involvement by women at all levels of government and in all areas of life is essential for deepening democracy and achieving and maintaining peace .
the reports are welcome and the progress they outline is a step forward , but until we really begin to exchange good practice and base our work on real statistics , we are not in a position to judge whether we are on the right road to achieving real equality between women and men .
mr president , commissioner , mrs pery , ladies and gentlemen , as the commission ' s reports acknowledge , major issues still remain to be resolved in the field of equal opportunities for men and women .
despite the differing situations in member states , there are generally fewer women in the labour market , they are most affected by unemployment , including long-term unemployment , and by casual labour , part-time work and atypical , insecure and badly paid work .
since we know that quality employment that provides rights is a fundamental factor in guaranteeing equality between men and women and in guaranteeing women the same kind of independence as men , it is crucial that we study the causes of this situation and adopt the necessary measures to overcome it , specifically through policies on employment , training , education and on infrastructures for supporting the family and children , giving priority to this issue at a practical level and not just making declarations of intent .
whilst this situation can be explained to some extent by the difficulties women face in the labour market and within the family , it is also true that political parties must shoulder their democratic responsibility to guarantee equal opportunities for women to participate in political life and in the decision-making process itself , in order to put an end to the scandalous situation that still exists at the beginning of the new millennium .
madam president-in-office , thank you for coming here today to tell us about the french presidency ' s interesting initiatives .
i should like to dwell in particular on two terms : articulation between family and work and parite au quotidien .
these concepts and what they stand for are gaining ground in french society and i hope that this interest will be exported to the rest of europe .
my final comment concerns the situation of women in the countries preparing to join the european union .
it concerns not only women in the european union , but also women in the candidate countries .
worse , so-called equality is sometimes turned against women : for instance , in france today the incorporation of a directive is going to make night work legal for women .
in conclusion , fine words and nothing concrete .
that is what we will be saying in brussels on 14 october with the world march of women fighting against violence and for real work for all .
from the reports and speeches that we are considering today we can deduce , as many of us already knew , that the problem of equal opportunities is a structural problem and that in order to deal with it we need global strategies , because as women we are not a category or a homogenous social group or indeed any sort of group .
we cannot continue with an elitist debate , we cannot continue to have progress only benefiting those women who enjoy greater opportunities .
our efforts need to be directed at the women who have the most problems , who are certainly the majority in the european union .
not all countries have managed to follow france ' s example , which i hope will bear fruit elsewhere .
as the ministry of equal opportunities in portugal is now defunct , who will represent my country at the meeting on 27 october in paris ?
the report before us is , i feel , a major synergistic work .
i was indeed sorry to see that maria de belem roseira was no longer the representative .
obviously not , and as someone involved with associations for social change - because i too , like many of you , have some thirty years of involvement with these associations behind me - i know how hard the social movement , the feminist movement and the intellectual movement , naturally , have worked to move this issue forward , and today we take our places in roles of responsibility in our institutions .
the history of the women ' s movement goes back way over fifty years : i sometimes remember olympe de gouges , who dared to call for a declaration of women ' s rights and gender equality , and was condemned to the scaffold in 1793 .
my second comment is about inequality in the world of work .
this is currently being debated in parliament , and i have introduced a provision , which obviously does not suit everyone in my country , but which is compulsory and will compel each company or profession to negotiate on equality in the workplace every three years , covering salaries , conditions of work , career prospects , and access to lifelong training .
mr president , what we refer to here and what has been referred to for a century as the women ' s problem is approached from two different angles , as the debate here in the house today has demonstrated .
the 97 , 98 and 99 reports are not simply working papers .
thirdly , because they form the basis for strategy , both for the european union - even in the charter of fundamental rights the fact that we had a picture of the current situation played an important role - and at national level , given that the member states are able to use the comparative assessment to set national targets .
i fully accept the comments in the report and the recommendations by members who have spoken of the need to change the nature of the report .
i have taken your comments on board and i see that we need to concentrate on analysing data , especially the results of successful strategies and successful initiatives at national and european level , in order to give the report a strategic slant .
however , i would stress that , in working with each of the candidate countries , we have been closely monitoring the question of sexual equality , as regards both the legislative framework and the creation of institutions which can support the application of these policies .
as you know , we have starting signing joint reports with each candidate country in order to monitor their adjustment to employment policy on an annual basis .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
this reform is important because it aims to re-examine the community customs code in accordance with the progress of the internal market and of administrative techniques .
building a common customs system has been one of the major achievements in that progress towards european construction .
three of them - amendments nos 4 , 5 and 7 , referred to the commitology procedure .
these amendments need to be considered in the new context of the interinstitutional agreement , and therefore , parliament can agree to not insisting on these commitology amendments given that they have been superseded to a certain extent by the new interinstitutional framework .
with amendment no 15 , parliament wished to introduce a recital urging the customs authorities to apply customs rules correctly , to establish monitoring measures in order to ensure that it was applied consistently and to facilitate action against fraud .
finally , amendment no 11 requested that this modification to the community customs code enter into force before 1 january 2000 and is , therefore , no longer valid .
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , following a long debate , considered that it was not reasonable to maintain legal uncertainty for a period of six years , and that three years , which is the period set , is a more reasonable period of time for establishing , with the appropriate means and the average proceedings , whether or not there were irregularities in a declaration .
with regard to the modification of paragraph 6 of article 215 , it should be said that we are dealing with a deeper issue , because the intention is that the additional declaration could be made anywhere in the european union , especially wherever in the european union the undertaking in question has its headquarters .
the progress made on the internal market , the gradual growth in trade due to the increasing opening up of the markets and the progress of the information society mean that the community customs code needs to be brought up to date with the development of community and international trade .
i must therefore regret that they were not taken into consideration , although i also understand the position of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market - the position of the rapporteur - of not re-introducing the amendments because , ultimately , what really matters is that the community customs code and the proposed reforms move forward and that the legal framework is established .
however , there is an amendment that the council rightly rejected .
it is amendment no 15 , on fraud .
there were goods , particularly tobacco , which were entering through a non-community country in the european economic area zone , going through the community zone and then mysteriously leaving the community zone on paper , but without actually leaving .
currently , for example , there has been a drop in the price of bananas in the european union .
therefore , while recognising , as the council and the commission have said , that this amendment was not appropriate in this case , i would like to , once again , take the opportunity to point out that the procedures for monitoring imports in the european union are not working , that fraud is being committed and that this fraud is not only bad for community taxpayers , but also for the functioning of the internal market , and even for loyalty to third countries .
if we want third countries to accept commitments , the european community must be the most zealous in ensuring that its own rules are being complied with , because if a country has the opportunity to place products in the community by means of smuggling , why is it going to bother to negotiate with us for any sort of concessions ?
i therefore welcome the fact that we have reached an agreement on this subject .
i think that the modifications are very positive , but i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commission for greater vigilance and for stricter measures on fraud in community customs .
after all , in the community customs code , a successful attempt has been made to harmonise and simplify legislation in a transparent manner , which surely must always be the objective .
the code forms the legal basis for levying these duties and , as such , one of the key instruments for protecting the financial interests of the community and for ensuring the smooth running of the community policy in different areas .
but it is too late now because you have just taken the vote and members voted in favour of it .
we have exchanged all the happy words and have asked member states to take action but the commission , because of restrictions on its budget and reasons that it has given before , is now indicating that is not prepared to follow through to see how the measures are being implemented in the different countries , which to my mind rather neuters the whole report that parliament spent a long time putting together .
this is also very sad for thousands of students and others involved in education across europe .
mr samaranch , we know you took up your post as ioc president in 1980 , and since then , have introduced many important reforms .
firstly , the integration of china into the olympic games ; the institution of the olympic truce ; your insistence on participation in the games by all countries in the world , as well as from countries in conflict , a recent example of which is the participation of athletes from east timor ; the participation of women in the olympic games and in the different governing bodies has strengthened considerably under your presidency ; and of course , the fact that the olympic games in sydney were considered to have been drugs-free .
vote ( continuation ) mr president , we are just about to start the vote on the mann report and i want to draw your attention to the fact that there appears to be a translation problem in amendment no 63 from the tdi group .
report evans ( a5-0255 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted in favour of the evans report .
the right of freedom of movement of european citizens is still being violated in many ways .
students in particular often encounter barriers and difficulties in member states that should no longer occur under eu legislation .
european rights of citizenship do not seem to carry much weight in this situation .
everyone agrees that this mobility must be encouraged in the name of the free movement of persons , but also and especially because of all the benefits to the young citizens of europe and hence the european union .
according to the recommendation , based on articles 149 and 150 of the treaty , member states need to be encouraged to adopt measures which will steadily remove the existing difficulties , and the citizens of the union should be offered a platform of rights leading to real mobility .
mr evans also demonstrates that people hoping to benefit from programmes in this area need to be better informed about their social security entitlements .
remember that 2001 has been designated european year of languages .
i call on the member states to coordinate the formalities to be fulfilled for enrolling in the establishments of other member states .
that is why i shall vote for this report .
it lays down conditions to enable people travelling inside the union to do so free from restrictions on their rights , their social security , or other benefits .
as the rapporteur said , the commission appears to be aware that , unless concrete measures are adopted , certain fundamental freedoms that are enshrined in the treaty , such as the right of residence and the right of free movement , are , in practice , in danger of becoming mere statements of principle .
we are therefore opposed to amendment 38 concerning the introduction of common tax regulations for volunteers .
i hope when this report comes back for second reading we are able to note that the council has incorporated the rapporteur 's sensible amendments .
report mann ( a5-0264 / 2000 ) mr president , on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party , i would like to draw two points requiring clarification to your attention .
i strongly supported this amendment , which reads : " no discrimination as regards access to health care , welfare benefits , and economic assistance shall be permitted on the grounds of the age of a disabled person " .
i have not voted for the mann report because , while it is indeed necessary to seek equal treatment for people in employment and occupation , it is also necessary to refrain from pushing zeal to the point of abandoning all protection of freedoms and all respect for the rule of law .
during the treaty of amsterdam negotiations we were delighted with the inclusion of article 13 on discrimination on the grounds of sex , racial or ethnic origin , religion or belief , disability , age and sexual orientation .
that kind of provision bears witness to the community ' s commitment to promote a more just , more egalitarian society , and above all , it has opened the way to appropriate community action aimed at contributing to the fight against discrimination in general .
the proposals consist of two draft directives , covering discrimination in employment and discrimination based on race and ethnic origin , and an action programme intended to support the efforts of the member states .
as regards the parallel directive on equal treatment irrespective of race or ethnic origin , the council succeeded in reaching political agreement after the european parliament revised its opinion on the issue .
we have therefore had to vote on the directive on equal treatment in employment and the 2001 / 2006 action programme .
to explain my votes , i would first say that the right to equal treatment and protection against discrimination is a fundamental human right .
as regards the mann report on equal treatment in employment , i shall limit myself to emphasising my satisfaction that the grounds for derogation have been successfully reduced to the minimum .
i felt it was essential to broaden the scope of the programme in order to ensure the implementation of article 13 of the treaty .
everyone is well aware of the problems faced by certain minorities in those countries .
in conclusion , i support the spirit of these proposals and i have voted for most of them , the exception being where they are in contradiction with my secularism .
the proposal for a directive on equal treatment in employment and occupation before us today is a response to a demand long expressed by the european parliament , and our group in particular .
it is actually one of three parts of a package of measures on combating discrimination based on the new article 13 , introduced by the treaty of amsterdam , and includes a community action programme .
so , i enthusiastically support this proposal for a directive and the very positive amendments proposed by our rapporteur to improve its effectiveness .
in parallel , the amendment extending the exception to the principle of non-discrimination to the wider ' social ' activities of religious organisations , where the discrimination is solely based on religious conviction and on no other grounds , is a reinforcement of the specific nature and original contribution of these structures as compared with public or private services .
this directive gives member states a great opportunity to enhance the rights of workers across the european union .
the snp is pleased to support this legislation , which is in line with our party 's policies of ending discrimination in all its guises and of positively backing measures to ensure equality of treatment for all citizens .
his report was adopted unanimously in the committee on employment and social affairs .
this brings to mind another sound rule of thumb : ' no one can achieve the impossible ' .
the proposal covers both direct and indirect discrimination .
the proposal also allows positive action to redress gender imbalance .
on age , the eplp welcomes the principle of fighting age discrimination in employment and training .
the eplp is concerned to ensure that the directive will permit section 60 of the uk schools standard and framework act 1998 to remain unaltered .
on sexual orientation , we welcome the principle of the commission 's proposals to fight discrimination on this ground .
several areas of difference with the race directive should be eliminated , such as the definition of indirect discrimination in amendment no 21 , the defence of rights in article 8 , the text on victimisation in article 10 , and article 11 covering dissemination of information .
we also feel that the directive should be clear about which differences of treatment on the grounds of age are permissible and which are not .
we have therefore decided to vote against this amendment , but we support the report as such .
to set up an internal audit office in the institutions will naturally require effort , but that effort will remain the same , whether it is made now or in the future .
report titley ( a5-0211 / 2000 ) i am sure , in common with all my colleagues , we support the proper management and control of arms exports in the european union .
the reasons of my vote on this report relate , in the main , to the question of closer european union relations with nato and also the onward rush to a common defence policy .
many will speak about peace and conflict resolution while at the same time will be making deals to sell arms to combatants .
the individual eu countries are members of nato and the weu , or else are non-aligned .
the report sees arms export controls primarily as a method of avoiding awkward situations for europe ' s military industry and not as a way of achieving disarmament and peace .
support this report from my colleague , gary titley , and agree with him that responsible arms trade practices form part of the " acquis communautaire " and therefore candidate countries should be actively involved in the further development of the code of conduct on arms exports and that this should be legally binding .
the european states have sold arms to indonesia , whose army is implicated in the massacres in timor and the moluccas .
our objections to this are four-fold : the possibility of yet another range of activities being justiciable in the european court of justice is opened up ; the possibility of obtaining agreement by other arms exporting countries outside the eu to an international code of conduct will be that much more difficult and unattractive if it is legally binding ; if legal sanctions are involved there is a danger that some of those involved in the arms trade will be less open in their activities ; there may be reluctance by some countries to place arms orders with european states which are encumbered by legislation , particularly when a long-term after-sales support relationship may be involved .
report angelilli ( a5-0258 / 2000 ) children are the first victims of violence on television .
we do agree with a number of interesting proposals on protecting children in the angelilli report , such as the need for a detailed study into the moral and legal aspects of the protection of minors .
if i do so , it is not because i am opposed to the report as such but because i should like to send a clear signal to the effect that the eu and the commission should concentrate on their core tasks .
the situation in colombia is that of a latent civil war in which , over several decades , the violence has taken on a structural nature .
in that situation , there are various groups who use violence .
i am referring not only to the paramilitary organisations and the guerrillas , but also to the drug trafficking organisations .
at times , even military units use violence and violate human rights .
in a situation of this kind , the attempt to establish peace zones , for example through the peace communities established in the rural region of uraba , has faced great difficulties .
but the fact is that , since 1997 , there have been three murders , the most recent on 8 july of this year , and the peace community of la union and the intercongregational committee for justice and peace , including the irish franciscan priest brendan forde , have had repeated death threats , despite their position of remaining neutral and contributing to bringing peace to the area .
we think that this situation again requires the strongest possible action on the part of the european institutions .
we urge the commission , obviously in cooperation with parliament , to provide the colombian government with all our political force and capacity for pressure so that finally the desired peace can come to colombia and these tragic situations of assassinations , deaths and murders do not happen again .
this year we have heard in ireland , as is obvious from the concern expressed by irish colleagues here today , of the danger facing father brendan forde , a franciscan working in the small village of la union who has chosen to remain with his parishioners at considerable danger to his own life .
they do not cover a number of serious issues like plan colombia and the grave human rights abuses that are taking place in the country .
it has been stated by many human rights organisations that human rights abuses by paramilitaries have the support of the armed forces and that the murder of the poor people in rural areas is as a result of this .
the only group that wanted to address plan colombia and the whole human rights situation in colombia was our own group .
mr president , when president pastrana appeared before this parliament he committed himself to working for peace in his country , but he forgot to mention three quite important issues .
secondly , that such serious problems as cocaine growing and violence can only be solved through peace talks with the far and the eln .
and thirdly , that he was preparing plan colombia for military intervention in the area with the united states , going behind the backs of european and world opinion .
secondly , that the european union must condemn plan colombia and demand that the solution to the conflict be a negotiated and peaceful one , in order to avoid this escalation of military action .
and thirdly , the european union must demand that president pastrana puts an end to all violations of human rights by paramilitary groups in his country , and that the sad world records of thousands of victims that are reached each year should come to an end .
therefore , allow me to also add - as has already been said , but i think that it is worth saying it specifically - that the european union should establish a human rights observatory in latin america , associated with the united nations observatory that already exists .
because there are so many countries , but above all colombia , that fail to guarantee respect for democracy and human rights , it is our responsibility to give adequate help to the region , which has such importance for us and for the world .
mr president , could i say directly to commissioner nielson that i wrote to you on 18 august expressing my concern about the life and the plight of father brendan forde , the irish priest whose life is currently under threat in the complex political circumstances that pertain in colombia .
could i add to that the name of one young man born and raised in ireland , tristan james murray , whose mother comes from my part of ireland in wexford , and his colombian colleague , javier nova , young environmentalists missing since july .
we all have concerns that plan colombia might escalate the conflict and increase the influence of the guerrillas out there .
we have to raise the international profile of all the people , including the communities whose lives are under threat and we trust commissioner nielsen you will do all you can for us .
in my opinion , parliament must now find the courage to make its voice heard , for , to make reference to amnesty international once again , all the parties taking part in the conflict are responsible for the violations of human rights in columbia , but one of them - the paramilitaries - has a greater responsibility .
as has been pointed out , president pastrana appeared before this house and offered to make a substantial effort to bring all the parties to dialogue .
mr president , as manolo medina said , once again we are talking about colombia .
however , the last time a human rights defender was assassinated in colombia was in may .
luis guillermo perez , also a human rights defender , insists that there is a plan , called the hundred plan , to assassinate up to one hundred human rights defenders .
the european union , mr president , should , in my opinion , do something more than expressing its concern , demanding the safety of its citizens and reiterating its support for the peace negotiation efforts initiated by president pastrana with the paramilitary groups .
i would like to recall the words of president pastrana in this parliament : " i believe that a decent and democratic future is not possible without a culture of respect for fundamental rights .
that is why we cannot just stop at words of condemnation , but we must move on to action and also demand that the lome peace agreements are complied with and that all the militias are disarmed .
however , as long as poverty continues to rule in sierra leone , until the trafficking of diamonds is put to an end once and for all and the arms trade is ended , there will be no chance of peace for this tortured country .
the european union must therefore use every means within its power , not only in order to help fund the peace process , but also , above all , in order to make it possible to establish living conditions that make peace irreversible .
but , above all , we need decisive action on the part of the european union , the member states and the whole of the international community in order to put an end to diamond trafficking in the area .
as long as a country ' s natural wealth is only benefiting warlords , that is , as long as diamonds enable the paramilitaries to have sufficient capital to provide themselves with arms and continue their activities , peace will be nothing more than an impossible dream .
on 5 july , the security council instituted an embargo on diamonds from sierra leone .
i believe that , for this reason , it is not sufficient to curb the diamond trade in sierra leone .
we should also continue to support the government , but i also believe that support for the war tribunal is absolutely necessary .
these armed gangs , including the ruf , certainly do not represent the interests of the people of sierra leone , in terms either of their methods or their objectives .
mr president , the situation in sierra leone has been the subject of our urgent debates on several occasions , and we have always dealt with it by encouraging peace talks , national reconciliation and aid for the displaced population , and by calling for an international criminal justice system that can try those responsible for the genocide that is being committed in that country .
we are talking about a kidnapping carried out by criminals who have no political links , either with the members of the former military junta or with any of the groups that signed the peace agreement in july 1999 .
the international presence in sierra leone is a good example of the perseverance on the part of the international community in seeking world peace .
therefore , taking on that responsibility , we are in support of the european parliament addressing the government of sierra leone today and calling for the immediate and unconditional release of the british soldiers who have been taken hostage .
possibly the most important founding principle of the european union was peace and those who seek to join the union must try to conduct their domestic and their foreign affairs in as peaceable a fashion as possible .
turkey 's membership of nato presents many of our member states with a special responsibility in this respect .
the development of a common european security and defence policy should be seen as a pretext , and also as a bridge , for us to reach common positions on ways to combat terrorism while respecting fundamental rights .
over 32 people were killed and 40 were injured in the bombing of kurdish villages by the turkish military in kendakor on 15 august .
it is a sign of the turkish government 's attitude towards peace and towards the kurds at a time when the kurds had made a peaceful gesture .
i welcome the meda programme , which states that all state , legal , political , cultural and social discrimination against the kurdish population by the turkish government should cease .
this will have given me an opportunity to address a number of points that i will be taking up in the report this assembly has asked me to draw up on enlargement to turkey and its accession to the eu .
if it turns out that the bombardment of kendakor on 15 august was carried out by the turkish army , we will have to encourage the turkish government gradually to reduce the role its armed forces continue to play , on the pretext of combating terrorism , in areas likely to cast serious doubt on the credibility of turkey ' s wish to join the european union .
mr president , as my colleague mrs uca said , it is unacceptable for a country that wishes to become a member of the european union to bombard defenceless people , kill more than 30 civilians and injure more than 40 people .
and of course , we also must condemn the hypocrisy of some member states which , breaking the code of conduct for exporting arms to countries that could use them in the way that turkey did in this particular case , export arms there .
we also feel that the european union should monitor each of the candidate countries primarily with regard to human rights .
they also seem determined to find a solution .
the ec is a major donor of humanitarian aid to the refugees and to date has spent more than eur 11 million .
the commission has used every opportunity to urge both sides to achieve tangible results .
a number of eu member states have made the same commitment .
we also condemned the restrictions on the freedom of movement of aung san suu kyi and other members of the national league for democracy and the routine practice of arbitrary arrests .
at the same time , the commission expressed its support for the common eu position on burma and for the decision of the april 2000 general affairs council to strengthen this common position .
the aim must be to arrive at a mutually agreed solution to the present situation , re-establishing respect for international standards of human rights in burma .
the eu has already clearly expressed its support for aung san suu kyi 's call on people from all civilised countries to refrain from tourist visits to burma .
this was a simple exercise in thuggery by an administration acting in panic .
the commission deeply deplores and condemns this situation and calls all parties in the conflict to respect humanitarian law and principles .
the commission fully shares parliament 's concerns over the recent kidnapping of eleven british soldiers in sierra leone .
we would like to express our solidarity with the soldiers and their families .
we would welcome any decision by the united nations security council to strengthen the un force in sierra leone .
the security council 's resolution of 5 july this year banning the illicit trade in diamonds from sierra leone has now been transposed into community law .
the commission remains supportive of the government 's attempts to restore peace to the country and to implement programmes of economic recovery .
economic recovery is being assisted through a eur 8.2 million programme of budgetary support and a technical assistance programme supporting improved public financial management .
as regards humanitarian assistance , the commission , through echo , is continuing to finance programmes in support of displaced and refugee communities through international ngos and the un .
this is especially important , given the terrible situation for child soldiers and children in general in sierra leone .
what is needed for a return to normal life in the area is stability , peace and support for economic development .
i realise that this is perhaps not the time to discuss this , but i would like the commission to answer us , even if it is in writing .
the european union with the support of this parliament has already done much to raise the technical and operational safety of soviet-type nuclear reactors and to create independent regulators .
mr president , many eu member states have a very friendly relationship with the czech republic , and even one based on family ties .
nuclear power stations in the european union have the highest safety standards in the world , and a candidate country that wants to commission a new nuclear power station must , of course , comply with those standards .
now , all of a sudden , trial operation is to start at temelin , with undue haste and in a few days ' time , before germany and austria , which are neighbouring countries , have received the information requested and before the deeply concerned population of the neighbouring countries has had an opportunity to consider the position and make their objections known to the czech authorities .
i call on the czech government , indeed i implore it , to take seriously the fears not only of people in neighbouring countries , but also within its own borders .
i appeal once again to the czech government to act voluntarily now in just the same way as they would have to act if they already belonged to the european union and were a member of our great european family .
mr president , i would first like to thank my colleagues for their constructive and objective cooperation , which has resulted in this joint motion for a resolution .
in the course of 13 project modifications , environmental impact assessment has been simply disregarded .
during the last bilateral meetings between czech , austrian and german experts on 2 and 5 september this year , it was once again stated that temelin does not meet german safety standards and would not , therefore , receive an operating licence in germany .
the safety of europe 's citizens and , thus , confidence in the community should be a priority for us all .
although i signed the joint motion as instructed by my political group , i intend to vote against this resolution .
my group is supporting this motion for a resolution on temelin for reasons of principle , because we take the people 's concerns seriously and because many of us have , for a long time , been actively fighting against nuclear energy in the east and in the west .
mr president , i shall also be voting for this resolution , which i consider to be reasonable .
the responsibility for licensing nuclear installations lies with the czech nuclear regulatory authority .
the czech authorities have ensured that the operating licence for unit 1 of the temelin nuclear power plant will not be issued until all outstanding problems are solved to the satisfaction of the nuclear regulatory authority .
the commission expects this provision to be enforced by the czech authorities .
the answer is ' yes ' .
southern europe has been set alight more and more frequently over recent years .
in my country , greece , more than 500 fires broke out this year , most of which were dealt with minimal disruption .
they could use the interreg community initiative , for example .
mr president , indeed , like a chronic recurrent disease , the summer of 2000 will once again have suffered the ravages of fires raging through millions of hectares in our country and our continent and even causing the tragic death of a number of firemen and local residents .
mr president , this year , the fires in the mediterranean , and in greece in particular , broke all previous records .
mr president , portugal has also been affected by these tragic forest fires which have been the result either of natural causes or of criminal acts motivated by base economic interests .
we know that this matter is primarily the responsibility of the member states , which need to organise themselves and build up their own control and prevention resources .
it is also necessary , however , to back a european forest strategy with technical and financial resources in order to strengthen and complement national resources .
this will aim to improve the mutual assistance between member states .
the commission is also encouraging member states to reinforce their intervention capacities .
the national authorities should provide for the necessary financial resources to consolidate this action for the period 2000-06 .
thank you very much , mr morillon , we will pass on that request .
i would like to emphasise - and i am now speaking on behalf of my group also - that we consider the council declaration on this subject to be very important , and i request you to forward it to the conference of presidents .
situation in fiji following the coup d 'etat the next item is the commission statement on the situation in fiji following the coup d 'etat .
first and foremost , the use of violence by certain ethnic groupings to impose their rule on other communities is unacceptable .
secondly , a democratic government must be re-established .
the time-frame currently being proposed , two or three years , is far too long .
the international community and the donors of aid to fiji agree on these principles .
as far as the eu is concerned , the council has informed the fijians of its request to begin consultations under article 366 of the lome convention , which calls for a thorough examination of the situation on the basis of information to be supplied by the fijians .
but the fiji story is more complicated than that .
be that as it may , speight ' s undemocratic behaviour has plunged a whole country into a deep political and economic crisis .
i do hope that the commission will stick to its principles and will not succumb to political or economic pressure .
i had the opportunity last week , along with a number of colleagues from various parties and groups here , to meet with prime minister mahendra chaudhry who reported to us that violence against the indo-fijians is still continuing in fiji .
i welcome the fact that article 366 of the lome convention has been invoked .
the police and the military singularly failed to protect and defend the government .
alongside george speight and his gang , when the people 's coalition government were taken hostage on 19 may , were members of the armed forces ' counter-revolutionary warfare unit .
third , there should be a denial of all economic and military assistance to and through the present government .
what concerns me more than anything is that this conflict could spread to other islands with similar problems and similar tensions .
this is , in fact , the opposite of what we have in mind and to which reference has already been made : the establishment of a great pacific regional trade agreement between 14 nations .
if we are not careful , this will be the first major conflict in the pacific and this may well affect the situation in the region for a few decades to come .
the kotonu conventions provide for a partnership for development and peace , and the lome conventions also provide for procedures , especially article 366 , which has already been referred to .
we invite the commission to come back before the end of the year to report on the developments in fiji and the region as a whole and on the efforts which the european union has made .
the original fijian population has never had a say in the matter but has meanwhile been faced with the reality that the composition of the population has changed beyond recognition .
in these countries , there have often been harsh clashes between these peoples .
in south africa , this situation even led to an atrocious system of inequality and oppression , referred to as apartheid .
those who use racism to their advantage must be punished and at least be excluded from political power , the refugees must be able to return home , and violence must come to an end .
the multi-racial constitution of 1997 , which came about following a previous coup d ' etat after lengthy negotiations , must be restored without delay .
the australian government wants them banned .
it is a very useful exercise in analysing the extent of our principles and whether or not there are human activities that should be quite independent .
we are actively drawing into this debate the regional acp partners and giving the authorities in the country in question a say in the discussion .
it is not easy to find out what the right thing to do is but we are doing everything to mobilise pressure for a rapid , irreversible return to democracy .
we have partners in the acp group who are part of the process of convincing and putting pressure on fiji to do the right thing .
i prefer to have my partners in the south well on board in the process , also taking into consideration the risk of the negative spill-over in the region .
the debate is closed .
mr luttge became an mep in 1989 and was mainly involved in transport policy .
secondly , the european year of lifelong learning highlighted the commission 's difficulty in providing information and responses and being transparent .
i would like to draw attention to this situation , and i believe that we must rethink our attitude towards education , as we are talking about people and our future .
these are all achievements , but also signs of the time and of the society in which we live : the information age , the information society , the age of knowledge , technology and globalisation , to mention but a few designations .
in order to help these insights come to the fore throughout europe , 1996 was designated the european year of lifelong learning .
with relatively modest financial resources of ecu 8.4 million from the european union , a much welcomed ecu 34 million was raised for the project with the help of partner countries from the european economic area : liechtenstein , switzerland and norway .
this coincides with the ideas expressed a few months ago at the lisbon and feira european councils , when all the member states pledged to develop a series of measures at european union level so that , during this decade , the european union can become a leading society at international level and achieve the levels of competence that north america has today , particularly in technological areas .
finally , i therefore recommend that you pay particular attention to points 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 23 and 24 , which constitute a good guide for the achievement of these higher levels of education at european union level .
mr president , first of all , i should like to congratulate our rapporteur on her excellent work and also on the commendable way in which she cooperated in the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport .
this joiner is between 40 and 50 years of age , speaks four languages and is known as something of a philosopher .
my constituency has just come through a serious crisis in its educational assessment , partly due to a lack of proper consultation with classroom teachers .
it is obviously important to do that as well , but the bulk of people are elderly - elderly people who have to overcome decades of dictatorship but who are , today , able to make a fresh start .
i should also like to say that , in my view , elderly people in particular , who nowadays still have twenty or thirty productive years in front of them after they retire , must be able to play an increased part in our society .
training and education are being seen more and more clearly as european resources .
parliament , however , did its best to establish a legal basis in time for the measures to be effected .
i also noted , in the commission report , in your report , that the initiative engaged the interests of many schools , universities , businesses and associations , not only in the world of education , but also organisations involved in the economy , in combating social exclusion or concerned with rural life .
to a great extent , the commission services based this report on an external assessment conducted by a company which , by virtue of its network covering all the participant countries , seemed to me to be able to make an objective analysis of the way this year was perceived by operators in our various countries .
it was taken up by the g8 ministers who last year in cologne adopted a charter on the subject , inspired to a great extent by the debates which took place within the fifteen member states in the course of this european year of lifelong learning .
the commission will continue the debate on lifelong education and training with you , with this house , in that context .
i am entirely prepared to make room for the question of lifelong education and training and , in general , educational matters , in structural fund programmes .
the people in his party , the pds , are clearly determined not to learn anything new for the rest of their lives .
mr president , lifelong learning must be a responsibility not only of the european commission and the european institutions but also , and especially , of the member states .
mr president , the communist party of greece is in favour of a state lifelong learning system , since it will give workers the chance to improve their knowledge and professional skills as well as their contribution to society as a whole and their standard of living .
this fundamental fact has fuelled debates at the european council meetings in lisbon and feira .
they should also speedily implement action programmes and specific measures in the context of a lifelong education and training strategy .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday , 8 september 2000 .
thank you , mr tajani .
i would like to urge you , madam president and the bureau members - i understand this is coming on your agenda very soon - to think very carefully before taking this decision because constituency weeks are a very good idea .
there is a desperate need for meps to communicate with the electorate in a much more effective way .
the fact that we had such a poor turnout in the european elections proves that this is the case and , if we allow people to sign in during constituency weeks , we are undermining the whole point of them .
i wish to draw our fellow meps ' attention to a demonstration which is leaving brussels today for paris and to ask them to exercise the utmost vigilance where this is concerned .
they are weeks without meetings but they are weeks when the commission , the council and all other agents of this parliament , including the political groups , are hard at work .
consequently , we believe that those members - and there are many of them - who are writing reports , chairing committees , running groups and have legitimate reasons to be here should , on declaration of those objectives , be able to come and do their work in the place that they were elected to do it .
on 13 september , a homeless person was found dead .
thirdly , on 4 september , right-wing extremists beat up a person whose parents are of tunisian origin .
with regard to the joint discussion on racism , i must inform you that the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left has also tabled an oral question to the commission on right-wing extremist violence in germany .
if i am to believe the relevant committee in my own country , they amount to approximately thirty per year out of a total of almost four million crimes and offences , including a million committed by foreigners against native europeans .
i suggest that the two issues be examined concurrently .
in the course of tomorrow ' s debate , i should like us , on the basis of what many of our fellow meps have said today , to be able to agree upon at least one amendment , namely that , within the confines of this parliament , no mep may make racist remarks .
measures to be taken following the fuel crisis and the rise in oil prices the next item is the commission statement on the measures to be taken following the oil crisis and the increase in the price of oil .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i am grateful for the opportunity to speak to the whole house after having spoken yesterday for two hours with the energy committee .
recent times have been marked by the fact that oil prices have been rising for the last 18 months , and the european public is feeling the full effect .
clearly , the people who will suffer most as a result of this rise will be the least-favoured social groups and also certain specific sectors which are particularly affected .
at the beginning of 1999 , the price of a barrel of crude oil stood at around 10 dollars , whereas today it stands at around 33 to 35 dollars .
the reason for this rise is very clear : the restriction on production on the part of the opec countries which coincides with a world economic recovery and the resulting increase in demand .
the impact of this rise has been particularly great in the european union and especially in the euro zone , owing to the euro ' s value against the dollar .
we cannot ignore the consequences of this rise on europe ' s economic development .
we would all benefit from prices being established in a market of free competition and not , as is happening now , in accordance with a monopolistic situation in a market which to be honest is less than transparent .
furthermore , the european union ' s level of dependency currently stands at around 50 % .
however , unless we introduce new measures , we will reach more or less 70 % by 2020 .
in the specific case of oil , our dependency on external sources stands at between 85 % and 90 % .
this must clearly lead us to a debate on the increase in our energy dependency on external sources and , therefore , on our vulnerability in this respect .
that is why ensuring a sufficient level of independence and , above all , of availability in the european union ' s energy supplies , must be a priority policy and furthermore a policy on a community scale .
little more than a year ago , when i first came into contact with this house as future commissioner with responsibility for energy , i indicated very clearly that , from the commission ' s point of view , there were two crucial elements which needed to be considered in the coming years .
on the one hand , the need to strategically promote dialogue on energy policy in international fora , and especially with the large producing and consumer countries , and , on the other , the need to adapt our priorities so that we can better focus our changes in the face of adverse energy situations such as the current one .
the commission intends to fulfil these fundamental objectives and has been working on them for several months .
i hope it will serve as a starting point for a broad debate amongst the interested parties to examine the role and place of each of our energy sources over the next twenty or thirty years .
furthermore , we must promote international dialogue in the short term and step up this dialogue with the producing countries in order to convince them of our common interest in price stability - an issue which they themselves have raised - putting forward the objective of a price band .
at the same time , we have to take account of the geopolitical context in which we are moving , especially of the peace process in the middle east and the complex political situation in the whole area .
the european union must send a clear and forceful message to all the opec countries and highlight the need for appropriate measures to be taken in order to fulfil what they have indicated to be their objective , that is to say , for oil prices to return to a reasonable band .
we must say that we are the main net importer and the second largest consumer of oil in the world .
the european union therefore has the means and reasons justifying its voice to be heard but perhaps political means are not sufficient .
as for the fiscal aspect , an issue that has been much discussed in recent times , the commission understands the concerns of the professional sectors most affected by the sudden increase in oil prices .
in this respect we encourage the member states to enter into and maintain social dialogue with all the interested parties in order to find solutions which are suitable and conform to community law .
one of the lessons we can learn from the blockades which have paralysed economic activity in various states , is the need to raise the level of coordination between member states and , of course , with the support of the commission .
to this end , madam president , ladies and gentlemen , in a few minutes i will leave this meeting to depart for luxembourg , where a special council of transport ministers is taking place .
for both environmental and economic reasons , member states must not give in to pressure and change their overall medium-term policy on oil .
however , the very difficult situation we are in at the moment probably requires , in the short term , the adoption of aid measures by the competent public authorities .
the commission intends to continue the contacts established with member states in order to detect any practices which contravene competition rules .
any agreements between companies or abuses of dominant positions must be severely penalised .
it is probable that the barrel price , in normal economic circumstances , will not in the long term return to below 20 dollars - and , of course , in no event to what it was 18 months ago , that is to say , 10 dollars .
we must tackle this dependency and this situation through two fundamental fields of action : diversifying our sources and saving energy .
the management of demand and energy saving is the other area on which we must focus for the long term .
with regard to oil , we are today 50 % more efficient that 25 years ago , but it must be said that the transport sector still has to make a special effort in this area .
more than 90 % of the increase in oil consumption in the union from now until 2020 will be absorbed in principle by the transport sector .
measures must also be adopted for construction and savings in this sector , which is one of the fields that consumes most energy , not to mention the promotion of competition in the gas sector and the emergence of gas as a competitor and alternative to oil .
nothing would now be easier than calling on all member states of the union to substantially decrease taxation on oil products up until the price of a barrel of crude hopefully returns to the 22 - 25 us dollar mark , or thereabouts .
the member states now have to find a common approach in both the short and the long term .
measures taken separately by individual countries under pressure from the protests will only make the situation more problematic and will distort competition .
the responsibility for action clearly lies with national governments .
that is to say , we need a virtuous policy , but at the same time we are now facing a particularly complex situation in that there are a series of professions who are in a very difficult position and which , as forms of community-scale protests are developing in europe , has lead to blockades and disorder and disparate reactions from our governments .
i would like very briefly to point out that , in recent times , thanks to more rigorous budgetary management , there has been talk of lightening the tax burden .
we must be able to understand this reaction and , at the same time , we must explain to our citizens the reasons for our decisions .
above all , we must try to see to it that our governments react jointly and that , finally , we create a european energy policy that is in keeping with the common economic and social area .
there is a lack of internal coherence , both in the reactions to the protests - protests which i can often understand very well - and in defending the currency , as well as a lack of external coherence in our attitude to opec .
this is why i believe that a cut in the general tax burden , as proposed by my party in belgium , is to be preferred to a specific tax burden on fuel .
the end result would surely be that there would be more drug addicts than before and a greater crisis .
our group has today proposed an integrated programme such as this to serve as the european union ' s new energy policy programme .
we need to establish a genuine long-term partnership between these countries and ourselves .
and then , all the other root causes of the current situation need to be looked at : cases of speculation , the inadequate stocks in the united states and the fall in the value of the euro .
the second problem revealed , in my view , by this crisis is the lack of coherence between our strategy choices within the union .
the third fundamental problem illustrated spectacularly by this crisis is the extreme difficulty many european leaders have in making an accurate assessment of grass-root demands .
they have not seen , or have not wanted to see , the serious problems which this rise in fuel costs presented for people obliged to use their cars or dependent upon domestic fuel oil .
mr president , the excessive rise in the price of oil is not without its causes , but there is a risk that , because of its own large share of responsibility for these causes , europe will not take account of them .
you really would have thought you were back in 1973 after the first oil crisis .
many of these solutions are perfectly rational and obvious and , occasionally , ideological such as restrictions on vehicles or the eco-tax but , as you reminded us , none of these is a panacea that will in itself sort out the situation .
for , if this crisis affects people in their working lives , it also affects people in their private lives , especially in rural areas where the car is still too often the main means of transport and communication and the one to which people resort .
whether the price drops again in the short term is of no consequence because there will be a steady upward trend in the long term .
in other words , the price of oil will rise to between usd 40 and 60 in the future .
nevertheless , the price increases and the tax protests are timely , to remind us both about our dependence in europe on imported energy and about the difficulties we face in achieving environmental objectives such as co2 emission reduction .
mr president , the explosion in the prices of oil products illustrates the need to make the euro into a genuinely international currency .
the socialists are asking the commission to encourage european oil importers to sign contracts in euros .
according to the ecb , monetary policy cannot remedy this situation in the short term .
economic policy cannot offer a solution to the rise in oil prices either , and must , in addition , be subject to a rise in the cost of capital .
they get the same prices in the same market but their costs are different .
this is an intolerable state of affairs for the transport sector .
british conservatives still are but it is time to wake up .
we have two choices .
we must adopt alternative fuels - biodiesel , fuel cells , gas and electric cars .
let us put more money in the budget , change the decision on programmes like save and altener .
we do not need a new budget heading .
let us negotiate - but as the european union - because stability is in the interests not only of oil - importing countries but also of oil - exporting countries .
ten dollars per barrel of oil was far too low a price and , furthermore , it had negative effects on our economies , although this seems more complicated to explain .
on the other hand , 35 dollars is too high a price for us to bear .
much of our energy is destined for this specific sector in particular .
i would like us to try to communitise this , but , in the mean time , we must coordinate the energy policy of the member states .
it is also necessary to continue making progress on transport policies and we must avoid , as a result of a crisis such as this , suddenly changing our transport policy and energy policy which has been established over recent years .
we must not therefore use the method of lowering taxes as a solution to this circumstantial rise in oil prices .
perhaps , in a very limited way , some countries may resort to that method , above all because there may be an exception in the directive on hydrocarbons .
energy and transport policies are medium- and long-term policies , which cannot be modified under pressure from very specific circumstances , which i am sure are going to change within a year and a half or two years although , no doubt , we will not return to prices of 10 dollars per barrel .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
mr president , i have no doubt that in the age of new communications technologies , in the age of the internet , which is well under way at the beginning of this new century , we legislators are faced with a very exciting challenge : to protect people from intrusion and from attacks on their private life , their dignity or their reputation .
the protection of these rights is recognised in numerous legislative texts of a universal nature , such as the universal declaration of human rights , of a transnational nature , such as the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental liberties , or of a national nature , such as the constitutions of the member states , but the legislative diversity in this area requires that efforts be made in terms of the harmonisation and unification of criteria .
the council ' s proposal for a decision is correct but is , in my view , timid and does not go far enough .
in this delicate field of data protection we must achieve two fundamental objectives : transparency in the future functioning of the secretariat and the independence of its work .
i therefore believe that the final objective should be the establishment of a single body corresponding to a single legal framework within the european union and that that body be provided with its own budget and staff , even exceeding the normal distribution between pillars , taking advantage of the option provided for in article 42 of the treaty of the european union .
i therefore believe that this parliament must go further than the council ' s decision , which , as i have said , falls short on aspects such as the election and appointment of the secretariat , its dismissal or the guarantee of professional secrecy in its functioning .
ladies and gentlemen , we are legislating in a field which is fundamental to the future of our interpersonal , economic and commercial relations .
in order to combat this duplication of supervisory bodies , which leads to inefficiency , the portuguese have drawn up an initiative for a proposal with a view to the adoption of a council decision to create a single secretariat for the three joint data protection supervisory bodies .
in the current circumstances , it is generally accepted that this is a viable solution which would reduce the problems caused by the existence of three data protection supervisory bodies within the union .
the rapporteur recognises that it is not feasible to set up this single body in the european union in the short term , and refers in his report to establishing it in the medium term , under the third pillar .
it might have been wiser for the report to have set a fixed and reasonable deadline for this body to be established , which would give more force to the proposal put forward by the rapporteur and the european parliament .
mr president , rapporteur , i welcome any initiative that aims to improve data protection for the people of the european union .
fundamental human rights such as the right to freedom of movement , the right to asylum , or in many cases , even the simple right to human dignity , will be compromised , and these institutions will support and control this .
a new supervisory authority must be able to cover all the relevant registers , including the eurodac register which has a major role to play in the eu ' s asylum policy .
moreover , the sirene organisation established under the schengen agreement must be covered by a new supervisory authority .
the whole of the sirene organisation suffers from a palpable lack of public and parliamentary control .
public and parliamentary control must be reinforced , especially when it comes to sirene and schengen .
in matters of data protection we have to make the difficult compromise between the protection of privacy , the safety of our citizens , and the stability of the single market .
the level of data protection in today ' s bit streams is still not adequate in the european union .
the rapid growth in ecommerce in particular is posing new threats to the protection of data concerning our citizens .
the workload is increasing at a ferocious rate .
we must recognise that this is not an easy task , not only because of the sophistication of the technology , but also because it is particularly important for us to find a solution that strikes a balance between safeguarding citizens ' rights and freedoms on the one hand and on the other , having the instruments needed to ensure that the democratic rule of law is respected and that we can effectively fight transnational and organised crime .
this approach also involves - as various speakers have already pointed out - introducing , either under the europol convention or under new laws based on the schengen convention , clear and transparent principles of democratic and judicial supervision , which will guarantee the fundamental values on which a union governed by the rule of law must be based .
perhaps the most difficult issue that this report raises is the problem of deciding whether a separate budget heading should be created for the joint secretariat .
the idea that we are therefore advocating , even if this issue can potentially only be resolved in the long term , is to create a separate budget heading .
so in practical terms the commission understands the council ' s desire to use existing financial structures , but only as a provisional measure .
to conclude , i am delighted that this report and its underlying principles have received such widespread support in the european parliament .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
the object of the exercise was simply to deal with articles 22 and 23 .
firstly , the council ' s move is contrary to article 202 of the ec treaty , which establishes the principle that the implementation of the rules which the council lays down shall be conferred on the commission .
this is particularly important in this case .
for these two highly convincing reasons , we are in favour of the proposal submitted by the commission and commissioner vitorino , to the effect that implementing powers should be bestowed on the commission , and i would urge you all to attend tomorrow ' s vote .
the dublin convention in itself has always been important but it is the flaws in the dublin convention and our failure to administer the dublin convention properly , which has caused issues to arise which could even threaten the human rights of some of the applicants and individuals concerned .
all the countries that are signatories to the united nations convention of 1951 are well aware of the criteria for determining whether someone should be granted the extremely valuable and significant status of a refugee and i hope that nothing we ever do here would affect the right to make an application within those criteria .
last time it expressed its opinion on the proposal as a whole and i believe that the position parliament adopted was very close to what the socialist group wanted .
i wish to defend parliament ' s position , which this house voted for a few months ago in relation to the eurodac agreement .
i therefore believe that we are now being consulted on an amendment which the council is introducing in this communication , and that it affects the allocation of competences for this action by the council .
the treaty established that the commission must have responsibility for implementation - for eurodac also , we believe - and also established that parliament can supervise what the commission does .
for this reason , my group is tomorrow going to abstain in the vote on all the amendments which do not relate to this change to the council ' s communication .
we are going to abstain on those amendments which we feel have already been approved by parliament and which are already included in this parliament ' s previous report .
i hope that it does so taking account of parliament ' s decision and it is important that tomorrow ' s vote shows parliament ' s strong support for the previous proposal .
and when - rather than if - we achieve codecision in this area , this will enable parliament to require the commission to re-examine the measures if the implementing measures are exceeded .
my group supported these amendments when the focus was on the substance but at this stage it is better to concentrate on the issue of whether the commission or council has implementing powers so that we in parliament state loudly and in unison that our interests lie in backing the commission .
last november , the majority of the european parliament adopted a report on the creation of the eurodac system .
following this vote , the council modified its proposal for a regulation , stating that the eurodac system for comparing fingerprints should be established and administered by the council rather than the commission .
this important change is the reason why this report is being re-examined by this chamber .
however , the new proposal being examined today has not taken any account whatsoever of the amendments parliament has voted in favour of .
whether it be about specifying 18 years as the minimum age at which an applicant for asylum can be registered on the eurodac database , about erasing personal data once legally recognised status has been acquired or about substituting the expression ' third-country national ' for ' alien ' , the council has not seen fit to take account of parliament ' s opinion and has been supported in this by the commission , which has also declined to take account of it .
this means voting on the text adopted by the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , which includes the amendments relating to the lower age limit of 18 years , the erasing of personal data in the case of any applicant who has achieved legal status and the use of the expression ' third-country national ' rather than ' alien ' .
once the applicant concerned has obtained legal status , there is in fact no justification for retaining the personal data and fingerprints of someone whose situation has been regularised in law .
it is not solely in the future charter that the protection of fundamental rights , close to our hearts as it is , becomes an issue , but also in every european text , where we must be vigilant in their defence .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i am not going to speak about the issues underlying the proposal for a regulation , which have been so thoroughly studied and discussed in committee and in this chamber , a process that culminated in the vote on parliament ' s opinion last november .
we are unhappy with this , firstly because parliament , as has already been pointed out , is seeing its rights diminished , specifically its right to remain informed .
in fact , the commission is , in general terms , obliged , under the terms of article 7 of the decision on comitology , to keep parliament informed of committee proceedings and whenever the commission transmits relevant measures or proposals to the council .
secondly , there is a lack of legal coherence and above all a lack of legal justification in these transfers of competence .
article 1 of the decision on comitology has not been respected and therefore this course of action breaches article 202 of the treaty , since this article contains no provisions that would justify this procedure being adopted in this specific case .
mr president , i am grateful to commissioner vitorino for his work .
i speak for some members on this side of the house in saying that there are concerns about this report .
what is under discussion today is merely a new consultation on the specific issue of comitology .
therefore , on the only issue which is still under discussion - comitology - the commission wishes to remind parliament of the position it adopted towards the council : we disagree with the council ' s decision to reserve to itself the power to lay down most of the implementing rules here .
this factor was crucial in the commitments that the commission made to you , the european parliament , with regard to our reasons for being prepared to participate in a eurodac system .
lastly , i should like once more to make it clear to parliament that we have not used these doubts or this quarrel about interpretation in relation to eurodac as an excuse for inaction : the commission has already submitted a working paper on revising the dublin convention , which it has in fact sent to the european parliament .
i am particularly pleased to be able to tell you that the commission has today given substance to a key aspect of the tampere mandate on asylum by approving a proposal for a directive on minimum rules for a common procedure for requests for asylum .
once again , i would like to thank you - even the honourable members who have criticised the commission - for the support expressed by various political groups for the commission to manage and implement the eurodac system .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
it is very interesting when you look at the statistics because the exact reasons become clear .
many of these accidents - many of which can be avoided - come about because of the poor use of scaffolding or ladders .
figures published recently by the european agency for health and safety in bilbao suggest enormous variations between member states in the incidence of falls from heights .
the current cost , both in personal terms and those of the workers and families affected and in terms of economic costs to industry and the social and health protection systems , warrants legislation in this area .
this is an amendment to an existing directive on the general minimum requirements for work equipment at work .
the directive finally adopted covered only two specific types of work equipment : mobile equipment and equipment for lifting loads which are very important areas in their own right .
this directive will rectify this serious omission .
also it is important to stress as some seem mildly confused about this , that this proposal is based on article 138 , previously article 118a , which laid down the minimum requirements for ensuring a better level of protection for workers health and safety .
what it does is provide for safe use of ladders and other equipment .
i wonder whether they would accept that there are many people who know exactly what this legislation can bring about .
finally , concerning the amendments tabled , which i have only just seen today , i welcome amendments nos 22 and 25 : amendment no 22 as a second choice if amendment no 5 falls and amendment no 25 as a recital as it hits the tone of my report very well .
inform us of any situation of risk .
unfortunately , every day we hear news of accidents at work .
or perhaps it may fall to the worker , because they ignore the risks , or because of a lack of caution , or because adequate measures or precautions have not been taken , mainly in activities such as construction , in which the temporary nature of works and of the sector itself - a bridging sector , between primary activity , mainly agricultural , and the industrial and service sectors - require even more precautionary measures .
health and safety at work , especially where the risk is very high , is the responsibility of society and of all the sectors concerned , and the whole of society must assume its fair share of responsibility and commitment .
in this way , european citizens will see europe as being closer to them , a europe that addresses their problems , concerns and interests .
the risk assessment has been carried out at a snail ' s pace in the european union , and this second revision is a positive sign that we really want to support and encourage .
although fatal accidents have decreased by 13 % , which is to some extent linked to community action between 1994 and 1996 , there were still 5 549 deaths in 1996 .
it is estimated that the damage caused to the european economy in that year was around 146 million working days lost .
it is particularly relevant to the debate on the directive that i mentioned earlier that , although the construction industry does not have the highest number of accidents , it does have the greatest number of fatal accidents , comparable only with the road haulage sector .
since the famous survey conducted in 1907 in the united states , when identification , compulsory registration , cause of death , the employer ' s age , the worker ' s age , name , circumstances and the accident itself were studied to establish costs and duties enabling workers to be better protected ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , as a number of speakers have already mentioned , falls from heights are among the most serious categories of industrial accident and , by means of this report which is a stage in the elaboration of the directive on minimum safety and health requirements for the use of work equipment , we are setting to work on doing something about the problem .
i believe that the work begun with the european agency for health and safety in bilbao will make a positive contribution to a reduction in the accident figures as we find the answers to these questions and use them constructively .
mobile scaffolds must be prevented from moving about , but this cannot always be legislated for sufficiently .
mr president , i think it outrageous that the problem of accidents due to falls at work can give rise to some much opposition and cannot be sorted out more quickly .
as the rapporteur is careful to point out , however , building firms are opposed to regulation of any kind and , as a result , the report carefully avoids implicating them .
mr president , we support and value mr skinner ' s work , although we do feel that , given the premises and , above all , the implications of the issue , he could have been a little more incisive , in view , moreover , of the fact that eleven years have passed since the first directive on the subject was produced and of the shortcomings of its amending directive which entered into force five years ago .
in effect , occupational accidents continue to be the scourge of the world of employment in all the countries of the european union , although there is a higher incidence in certain sectors .
safety measures are not the only things that cost .
preventive action is also better , cheaper and more humane than a social policy that deals with the consequences .
it cannot be the answer to deal with social policy at a purely regional , or even provincial , level .
mr president , as the rapporteur ' s fine report points out , the figures recently published by the european agency for health and safety at work , whose headquarters are in bilbao , indicate very differing results in relation to work accidents between the various member states , owing to the fact that the states are not applying uniform statistical criteria .
the commission has proposed an amended directive on health and safety at work .
it is not a question of whether or not the recommendations in the report are sound .
or we can answer that the eu , through the commission and parliament , is about deciding whether or not it should be legal for one person to stand at the bottom of a ladder holding on to it while another person climbs up it .
i am very grateful to be able to follow my colleague , philip bushill-matthews , because i share many of the concerns he has expressed .
there can be no reason why member states , acting in a uniform way , would necessarily be able to tackle this problem more effectively than individual member states and , above all , there can be no reason for taking such a close interest in ordinary aspects of people ' s working lives .
a common and uniform and centralised standard on how you climb a ladder is not necessary and it is an undesirable interference with the way people run their work environment .
i believe that it is not necessary to conduct a risk assessment every time it is proposed to use a ladder .
as anyone working in the home can tell you , ladders are used very commonly and very frequently and , yes , there are accidents but i do not believe this kind of directive will ever eliminate those accidents .
it is a very important issue and survey after survey , including those in eurobarometer , and surveys of smes including by the last british government have shown that smes themselves recognise the importance of good health and safety legislation .
it really is absolutely deplorable and we should all - right across the political spectrum - make it clear that we will not tolerate that sort of behaviour from that minority .
mr president , first of all i would like to say that my delegation intends to back the skinner report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending for the second time the directive concerning minimum health and safety requirements .
i certainly cannot see why mature adults should be dictated to on how they should climb ladders , or get down them , or why a risk assessment should have to be completed before a ladder is used ; or why there should be an instruction to the effect that , two people should not climb a ladder at the same time , if at all possible , or even one stating that time spent up a ladder should not exceed half an hour , or - a peculiar refinement - 25 % of total working hours .
the skinner report will go down in parliamentary lore as ' the ladder report ' , and the people of the european union will justifiably ask themselves whether we do not have anything better to do than produce legislation on things they take for granted , which should in fact be a matter for in-house experts and have no place either in an eu directive or an associated report produced by the codecision-making parliament !
we need more europe where internal and external security is concerned , more europe when it comes to looking after our interests in the global competition , in currency policy and in the completion of the single market .
let us make it clear that no one in this parliament wants anything other than that the number of accidents , especially fatal accidents , should fall in all workplaces around our splendid continent and in our member states .
what is it , then , which leads us to believe that it is at the level of the european parliament , representing countries with more than 15 national parliaments , that the right forum for decision-making is to be found ?
using the enterprises ' language , i should like to say that this directive is based not only on social solidarity and social justice , but on competition issues as well .
it aims to prevent falls from heights by setting minimum requirements for the use of the relevant work equipment such as ladders and scaffolding .
falls from heights account for more than 10 % of occupational accidents and one in ten of such falls results in permanent invalidity or death .
on your amendments and the ideas behind the amendments , we are happy to accept amendments nos 2 , 3 , 4 , 9 , 11 , 15 , 20 and 22 as they stand .
on the text of amendments nos 10 , 13 , 14 , 18 , the commission agrees with the principles behind the changes proposed and can agree with most of the texts put forward .
however , we do propose a few changes or additions , mainly to be sure that we take account of all possible situations and do not create any unintended holes in the safety net we intend to provide with this initiative .
we agree with the main idea behind amendment no 18 and the references to the securing of the decks and the prevention of unintentional movement .
finally , we cannot accept amendments nos 1 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 21 , 23 , 24 , 25 and 26 .
this is not a question of a political disagreement but simply that amendments nos 6 and 7 change accepted standard texts while the other amendments repeat what is stated elsewhere .
we must endeavour to keep community legislation as straightforward as possible and avoid any inconsistencies in the overall framework .
in the same way , the definition of " collective fall protection safeguards " given in amendment no 8 is not necessary .
these safeguards have already been mentioned in the basic directive and there is no risk of confusion .
amendment no 5 is covered by amendment no 22 , which is accepted as it stands .
amendment no 6 covers training , which is already incorporated in recital 7 , and research , which is beyond the scope of this directive .
furthermore , recital 7 uses a standard form of words .
there are thus several reasons for not accepting amendment no 6 .
amendment no 7 advocates a change in article 2 ( 3 ) .
amendment no 23 cannot be supported by the commission as the issue of health and safety committees in enterprises has been appropriately addressed in the framework directive and according to it , detailed regulation is a matter of subsidiarity for all member states .
amendments nos 24 and 25 must be rejected because training is already adequately covered , especially following amendments nos 16 , 19 and 22 .
the basis is article 138 , which was previously article 118a - and if i am right , we must look into the costs - administrative and otherwise - for small-to-medium-sized businesses , as laid down in the treaty already .
if only mr bushill-matthews had been here when i first started , he would have heard some of the arguments which i wish to place before this house as to why it is important to have eu legislation .
the debate is closed .
we are awaiting the outcome of the commissioner ' s review of over 100 responses to his white paper on the reform of restrictive trade practices and the abuse of market power .
competition is not an end in itself , as far as we are concerned , it is a means of achieving growth and employment , and if , like the commissioner and ourselves , you champion a functioning single market organised along the lines of the social market economy , you do not favour unlimited competition , but competition governed by the necessary principles of political organisation , keeping in mind that we have a responsibility towards the future and our fellow human beings .
the rapporteur touched on some of them , and i would like to explore them again .
i therefore ask myself whether treating horizontal restraints and vertical restraints differently will really lead to greater legal certainty , or whether it would not be better for both , to have a block exemption regulation .
i have said in other interventions that , in my opinion , it is not only necessary but also takes us in the right direction .
having been in force for 40 years , community competition law had begun to show signs of exhaustion .
there is no doubt whatsoever that the competition rules included in the treaty , and in the law derived from it , have contributed significantly to the growth of a culture of competition , and have been fundamental to the creation of the single market .
the european legal tradition , especially the continental tradition , concentrated more on aspects relating to unfair competition ; the free competition elements were imported from the united states .
it is no longer possible to apply competition rules which do not take account of the economic analysis and a consideration of the market ' s power .
in the field of vertical restrictions , the new regulations on exemption by category and the guidelines for their application have been approved .
in this area , the commission is now presenting us with two proposals for regulations , one on research and development agreements , and the other on the regulation of specialisation agreements , accompanied by guidelines .
with regard to horizontal restrictions , however , there are guidelines which are , to a large extent , broader than the two specific aspects regulated by the two proposals for regulations .
the group of the party of european socialists has presented parliament with five amendments which express some of our concerns .
i would therefore ask you to vote in favour of these amendments .
finally , ladies and gentlemen , as a result of the reform , the commission will be able to focus on tackling the conduct of those who hold power in the market , because it is that conduct which is genuinely anti-competitive and damaging to the market .
on the one hand , the commission has drawn up a revised version of the block exemption regulations on research and development and specialisation agreements , and , on the other hand , it has prepared draft guidelines on the applicability of article 81 to horizontal cooperation agreements .
in this way , it is the commission ' s intention to codify the relevant case law and working practice as they have developed on the basis the evaluation of individual cases over all these years , without making any major changes to the criteria for evaluating horizontal cooperation agreements on the basis of community law .
however , in the absence of basic restrictions , it is necessary for the agreements to be examined in their economic context , so that it can be ascertained whether they would have a negative effect on the market .
consumers will benefit from these economic advantages , but only if effective competition is maintained on the market .
the line taken is similar to that recently adopted on vertical agreements , and primarily responds to two objectives : preventing the directorate-general for competition having to examine cases which have no bearing on competition policy , and enabling the businesses themselves to establish whether or not an agreement would restrict competition and whether it would be eligible for an exemption .
however , a compromise does need to be reached between the businesses ' interests in exploiting the results of their own research and the public interest , in guaranteeing competition on the new markets .
i do not have the time to comment on all of them , but i would just like to make a couple of observations .
mr theonas , you raised the question of mergers .
we have already done so for distribution - vertical agreements - and we are now doing it for horizontal agreements .
our block exemption regulations and notices will give companies more certainty on the contents of our rules and in self-assessing their agreements in the spirit of an overall modernisation effort .
the debate is closed .
that is important in our own countries , but we still have a long way to go throughout the european union .
it is also important , of course , in the developing countries , especially in connection with the development cooperation initiated by the european union .
we have achieved what we were aiming for in a number of important areas .
we have gone from eur 50 million to eur 93 million .
secondly , the degree to which the member states were to be involved in the implementation itself was a major issue .
mr president , this draft regulation is one of the first regulations in the sphere of development policy to be adopted by means of the codecision procedure .
many people felt that this regulation should be passed as quickly as possible , which has meant parliament having to distance itself from many of its proposed amendments .
mr president , eight years after the rio conference , where the countries of the united nations acknowledged that development and the environment were inextricably linked , the european union is finally adopting regulations to ensure that the environment is integrated into the development projects of developing countries .
although we have cause to congratulate ourselves on the financial contribution agreed in the course of the conciliation - and i should like to thank the rapporteur on behalf of my group - the budget in question is still modest , given the considerable needs and still greater expectations of the populations concerned .
are we not merely salving our consciences by granting just a little more than eur 15 million over a period of six years to developing countries in africa , the caribbean and south america when we are aware of the social , economic and ecological conditions in these underprivileged lands ?
this budget line , designed to promote the full integration of the environmental dimension in the development process , will be of no significance whatsoever if the environmental dimension is neglected in the case of other projects .
the commission supports the proposed regulation currently before you .
fortunately , our activities in the field of environment and development are not limited to actions funded under this regulation .
hence , we intend to use it in a strategic fashion focusing , in particular , on support for the various international environmental conventions .
however , time will be against us since we are fast approaching the end of the financial year .
once more , i wish to thank parliament for their work in ensuring the passage of this regulation and the interest that many members have shown .
i am confident that the regulation will provide us with a useful tool for ensuring that the environmental dimension is fully taken into account in our development cooperation .
sustainable management of forests in developing countries the next item is the report ( a5-0216 / 2000 ) by mr fernandez martin , on behalf of the parliamentary delegation to the conciliation committee , on a joint text , approved by the conciliation committee , for a european parliament and council regulation on measures designed to promote the conservation and sustainable management of forests in developing countries [ c5 0284 / 2000 - 1999 / 0015 ( cos ) ] .
it has taken the procedure a long time to come to an end , since we have spent almost three years on the first and second readings and on the debate in conciliation .
the tropical forests and their various functions and usefulness to humanity can contribute to a large extent to the achievement of the union ' s aims , not only in terms of development and the environment , but also with regard to its objectives of fighting poverty and sustainable economic and social development .
with the regulation , the european union provides appropriate financial and technical aid with a view to promoting conservation and the sustainable management of tropical forests and other types of forest in developing countries , so that the forests may play their role as generators of wealth and social development with the sustainable environmental criteria which is expected of them at local , national and international levels .
to this end , it is necessary to improve coordination and the flow of information between commission projects - those that the commission will present in the coming years - and those of the member states , in order to achieve more coherent actions and therefore a more efficient use of resources .
in terms of the budget , we should be pleased that , after the restrictions which , in general , have resulted from the plans for reconstruction in kosovo , we now have a contribution of eur 249 million , having started with an initial council proposal of eur 9 million , for a period of 6 years , from now until 2006 .
nevertheless , in the field of commitology the differing positions of parliament , especially the committee on development and cooperation , and the council are well known .
our position is more inclined towards giving greater competences to the commission in this area .
the active participation of the local communities and those who are directly affected , in the development of the national forestry policy and development planning , is now one of the objectives of the regulation , and this represents a major step forwards in terms of content , to my mind .
the council ' s proposal earmarked a ridiculously low sum of eur 63 million for the period between 2000 and 2006 .
parliament demanded eur 249 million for the same period and achieved it , making the point very clearly in so doing that it is unacceptable as far as we are concerned to play the reconstruction in the balkans - as important as it is - off against eu development policy and development cooperation .
together with article 11 of this regulation , which lays down an annual reporting obligation in respect of financed projects and measures , this provides us with the basic tools we will need to draw attention , in good time , to disturbing trends .
now , this rich biodiversity - which , moreover , is not confined to plant species - has a financial consequence which is in itself truly impressive .
i congratulate mr fernandez martin and the other members of the conciliation delegation for their efforts to achieve a satisfactory conclusion on the tropical forests regulation .
as with the environment budget heading we intend to use the tropical forests budget heading strategically and in coordination with actions funded under the other instruments at the disposal of the commission .
once more , i offer my congratulations to parliament for this successful conclusion and i also wish to express my appreciation for the input it has made during the first and second readings of the regulation .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the increase in poverty , despite the gradual growth of world gdp over recent decades , the current tendency of member states to reduce the funds intended for official aid to development in favour of direct investment , of which only 1 % goes to the least-developed countries - which increases the gulf which separates those countries from the rich or developing countries - and the conviction that the globalisation process may increase the difficulties of the poor countries , are all factors which demonstrate the urgent need to improve the effectiveness of policies on development cooperation .
in this context , it is essential to strengthen the complementarity of policies on development cooperation implemented by the community and the member states .
firstly , because complementarity enables us to take advantage of the synergy resulting from a coordinated approach in the actions to be implemented , not only by the european union but also by all the international donors , which will improve the impact of those actions .
thirdly , because it would improve the visibility of the european union and make its development policy more credible , which will allow it to exert the political influence it deserves as the main provider of funds - let us remember that between half and two thirds of development aid comes from the european union - and both the ngos and the recipient countries would like this influence to be greater given that nobody is more sensitive than the european union in the field of social justice and human development .
lastly , improving complementarity is important because the treaty on european union clearly establishes that the member states and the community must coordinate their policies on development cooperation and harmonise their aid programmes .
that is why we must take a positive view of the commission ' s presentation of the communication on the complementarity of community and member states ' policies on development cooperation , since the measures it proposes may contribute to removing the obstacles which hinder significant advances in this area .
therefore , i believe that , in order to really improve the impact of european development policies and safeguard the credibility of the union , it would have been much more appropriate and would have made things much clearer if these aspects had been tackled jointly within the framework of the communication on development policy , since that would have better highlighted the essential and inseparable nature of these elements in relation to the formulation of a development policy in accordance with the union ' s objectives .
my second point relates to the very concept of complementarity , which must not be viewed as a protective principle for preserving the competences of the member states in this field , but as a manifestation of a political will to unite our efforts to improve and contribute more effectively to implementing the objectives of our policies on development cooperation .
the commission should therefore take the initiative and make a qualitative leap in that direction in order to allow the european union to establish its strategic priorities in the field of development aid .
for that , the political will of the council must , as a precondition , make progress towards greater integration in the field of cooperation , because what has hindered the progress of complementarity has been above all the fact that the member states define their development cooperation policies more in accordance with their geo-strategic economic interests and their colonial pasts than with the objectives of the union in relation to development .
in any event , and to sum up , i would like to reiterate the timeliness of this communication - even though we would have liked it to have been part of a global package - and say how fitting the measures are and that , together with the measures also proposed by the committee on development and cooperation in my report , we hope that they will help to guide our action , providing better operational management .
i would similarly like to say how satisfied i am that the importance of the work of ngos , which work independently of governments , is being acknowledged and taken into account in development cooperation with the express purpose of strengthening civil society as a result of such cooperation .
at eu level , we must also see to it that our values are reflected in our policy on development cooperation .
thus , we cannot aid countries that show no interest in their citizens ' human rights or democracy .
at eu level we must really be aware of the political effects of aid , as we already know from experience that aid can be damaging .
in fact the risk is considerable .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , before this debate we would have liked to ask the council a question on the policy of complementarity .
as well as being a requirement of the treaty , complementarity between community aid policy and that of the member states , is an invaluable instrument for helping the union and the member states to progress along a common path in the field of aid .
complementarity is currently expressed in operational coordination on the ground and in the commitology procedure in brussels .
some of the programmes approved by this committee , such as the regional programme for the reconstruction of central america in relation to hurricane mitch , are still to be implemented .
there is a clear lack of political will to implement the measures which we decide on in parliament , and that leads to inefficiency in the achievement of our political objectives , to a gradual paralysis of the functioning of the european institutions and to a bad image which , as the previous speaker said , is sometimes projected to the public .
complementarity with the member states , coherence between community policies and coordination between departments must form the basis of development aid policy if this policy is to fulfil this parliament ' s minimum requirements in terms of efficiency .
there are problems with the diversity of instruments and the duplication of procedures , but the real problem is the lack of political will .
as has been said before , the states must overcome their individual tendencies - which often reflect their concerns about former colonial relationships or other factors - and commit themselves to a common european project .
the commission now has the opportunity to include these elements in its reform and the council has the historic responsibility to involve itself in the definition and implementation of community policies .
both institutions can rely on the strong support of the socialist group in parliament in relation to development aid policy .
the policy of complementarity between national and community policies has a total of 16 players ( 15 + 1 ) .
the lack of efficient community development cooperation therefore serve the member states as an excellent alibi for not having to attain complementarity , and certainly not coordination and cohesion .
this , in my opinion , is a sine qua non .
we do not want to be an extension of the bretton woods institutions .
the reason why the council and member states suffer from a lack of ' political will ' , as highlighted by the rapporteur and commission , can therefore be found in this fundamental difference in approach to development cooperation .
long-term programmes , on the other hand , fare better within bilateral , often historical relations between developing countries and member states .
the european union could , however , help coordinate member state aid and intervene if the member states fail to take any action .
the problem i am referring to is the notable lack of harmony and coordination in development cooperation action and policy between the european union and its member states , on the one hand , and between some of the member states themselves , on the other .
what has been described and condemned by many authoritative voices and , in particular , by organisations that work in this area - and also by our own parliament - is that over the years the different member states have been acting independently in the field of cooperation , often according to individual national views and interests , sometimes honourable and sometimes less so , but in any event without any significant effort to be coherent and fairly distribute roles , not even in terms of providing mutual information and even less in terms of coordination .
furthermore , until very recently , the required effort has not been made to reasonably coordinate community policy in this field with the policies that at the same time were being carried out by the 15 member states , although this is certainly not exclusive to the area which we are dealing with .
it was truly regrettable to see how community actions were being implemented , sometimes without even an awareness of what each of the member states was doing in relation to the relevant countries or sectors .
this is not the first time we have discussed this issue in parliament , of course .
nevertheless , by taking account of a situation which is particularly pressing , but also particularly favourable , we are taking an important step forward and we are doing so at a time when both the commission and the council seem convinced that we have to adopt specific measures in order to leave behind the previous situation and produce the coherence which will enable the resources which europe intends for development cooperation to be more substantial , in both qualitative and quantitative terms .
furthermore , in this way , we will achieve for europe a much more decisive role in the challenge , which is of such concern to us , of creating a fairer , more balanced and therefore more stable world .
complementarity , coherence and coordination are the notorious three c ' s at the centre of the debate on european development cooperation .
since then , a further eur 9.65 million have been made available as emergency aid , and eur 21 million are to be provided in addition , to deal with the consequences in the medium-term .
the european union and its member states have provided a total of eur 85 million in aid , whereas the un contribution brought the overall international package to only eur 115 million , including the european funds .
the political leaders and the civil society of the partner states must have their decision-making powers strengthened , as must the eu delegation posts in situ , which is already happening with the elaboration of national indicative programmes within the scope of acp cooperation .
we need to redouble our efforts , in order , not only to further coordination between the eu and the member states in this sphere , but also with the international bodies .
i therefore welcome mrs ferrer ' s report .
we need to increase internal eu coordination , country by country and sector by sector , following the 1998 guidelines on operational coordination .
we should help partner countries in their efforts and reinforce the role of eu coordination as regards wider global coordination between donors , whether they be the world bank , united nations organisations or bilateral governmental or non-governmental organisations .
the commission has already taken the first step .
the country strategy papers will guide us when reviewing our assistance programmes .
these country strategy papers are the first practical tool , not only for improved donor coordination and complementarity , but also for overall coherence of development cooperation policy with other eu policies .
the country strategy papers should also steer us in the right direction for achieving an optimum division of labour between the commission and member states .
however , if we are to succeed in this , our member states must join forces and participate in this exercise .
the quantitative aspect of how much each and every member state is mobilising and putting into this effort is also part of our collective success or collective failure .
firstly , i note that at several points in the resolution , the issue of complementarity is placed within a broader framework connected with a need for greater consistency between the various policies of the eu .
on coherence - which we have often discussed - we have now established the coherence focal point in the directorate general for development .
next may we are organising a conference with unctad , in this chamber , on the least developed countries and we are also organising a conference with who and unaids on 28 september concerning malaria , hiv-aids and tuberculosis , the three major communicable diseases .
thirdly , specifically relating to the recommendations of the motion for a resolution , i welcome your support especially on two essential issues : firstly , human resources and , secondly , the role of management committees in development cooperation .
the lack of human resources is a serious and real problem that for too long has been ignored .
as regards the member state committees that work in parallel with the commission in the management and implementation of the development programmes , we believe that their key role should be to discuss political priorities and overall strategy with us .
the support of parliament is also vital .
in any case , member states warmly welcomed the overall policy statement which is the basis for what we do .
in conclusion , i should like to thank the rapporteur again for her excellent work .
this is a very useful report and i am determined to move forward on complementarity and will use the new tools available : the country strategy papers , the new and improved programming systems and a more effective management of external assistance , which also includes greater responsibility for our delegations in third countries .
i am confident that the european parliament will provide us with the necessary support in these endeavours .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
annex 1 of the treaty defines the list of products eligible for a com under the cap .
non-annex 1 products are those that have been processed a second time .
for these products , additional access to agricultural product refunds at least constitutes a partial , quick fix solution which , in the absence of alternative proposals , makes it possible immediately to guarantee the competitiveness of non-annex 1 products .
that said , agricultural product refunds present a range of risks and disadvantages .
this implies that , despite the extension proposed to us , the agricultural product refunds ought definitely not to become a structural tool but ought to remain a residual scheme and a last resort solution , to be implemented only when there is a real shortage of refunds .
we believe that any extension to the agricultural product refunds should be subject to very strict supervision and follow-up .
in that way , we shall have a tool of superintendence and control with which to ensure that agricultural product refunds are of limited availability , that the amounts concerned are no more than are really needed , that they do not have an adverse effect upon our own producers of raw materials and that they are not concentrated upon a limited number of coms at the risk of destabilising these .
the latter ought to be given easier access to these refunds , which remain more straightforward to administer , and , in this context , they ought to be exempted from presentation of certificates up to an adjustable ceiling of eur 50 000 per year .
in the longer term , however , there will only be a lasting solution to the issue we are to deal with today as a matter of urgency if , when the wto agreements next come up for renewal , community negotiators receive clear instructions to the effect that adequate account must be taken of the interests of our non-annex 1 products and that the close links forged by our processing industries with our producers of agricultural raw materials and their countries must be maintained and consolidated .
mr president , the commission ' s plans to slash export refunds will cost the eu ' s food and drink processors an estimated eur 145 million per year .
other sectors , such as pasta , confectionery and some dairy products that also receive export refunds , have escaped relatively unscathed .
those food and drink exporters who through adding value to their products , constitute a vitally important part of the eu agricultural economy must receive alternative compensation exactly equivalent to the value of the export refunds they have lost .
export refunds are essential to ensure the international competitiveness of non-annex - i processed food .
in addition , the food and drink processors in the eu purchase around two-thirds of all their agricultural produce within the 15 member states .
this deliberate attack on non-annex - i export refunds further undermines our farmers who are suffering their worst recession in decades .
however , these cuts should not be targeted in such an arbitrary manner on a small number of industries , as the commission has chosen to do .
there is no doubt that the whole system now needs to be dismantled and rebuilt in a much more sensible and less complex manner , in line with our wto and gatt requirements .
this is a very delicate area and , furthermore , the system of inward processing , in its application , is extremely complex and slow and therefore harms numerous small- and medium-sized businesses .
in this delicate area , our decisions , as politicians , should be directed towards maintaining the competitiveness of the european food industry in the world and towards strengthening the close links between the processing industry and the producers of raw materials .
the greatest responsibility in this area falls to the commission .
he has been correct , specifically in his proposals to limit and rationalise the use of the system of inward processing by adapting it to the situation of the markets , the regulatory framework and the budgetary framework .
many thanks , therefore , to the rapporteur and the european parliament , and i hope that the commission will improve its work in this area .
it may be necessary to act in this way , but certain principles have to be adhered to in this issue .
for that reason , the wording of amendment no 8 is justified .
then they have a brainwave to the effect that industry will no longer buy agricultural raw materials on the eu market but on the world market instead , which the eu , for its part , will export its raw materials onto , and in dumping its goods will also be partly responsible for world market prices .
but what we in fact need to discuss , is whether the sale prices on the world market call for a price discussion , because no one in the world can produce goods in an environmentally and socially responsible manner under these conditions .
that is why , despite the fact that we agree with many of the rapporteur ' s findings , we disagree with his conclusion on the opening of inward processing arrangements , even on a provisional basis , precisely because we believe that , under present circumstances , provisional measures will turn into permanent measures and will exacerbate the situation .
mr president , according to this regulation , the commission is stuck with a limited budget , and this is due to a complex of three reasons : firstly , the guaranteed prices for agricultural products of european origin ; secondly , export refunds to companies which sell these agricultural raw materials in processed form on the world market ; and thirdly , the agreements within the wto .
in the case of shortages of raw materials on the internal european market , the food industry can import these from the world market without any import duty and under inward processing arrangements , as has been the case to date .
we back the amendments which have their interests in mind .
together with the rapporteur , we would call on the commission to keep a close eye on the balance between agriculture and the food industry in europe during the forthcoming negotiations within the framework of the wto .
the first is that this proposal is not driven so much by the restrictions imposed by the wto , but particularly by the well-known budget restrictions currently being applied in the european union , specifically due to the need to reallocate means and resources to commitments that the union has given in the field of external affairs , notably kosovo .
what is not acceptable is that little more than a year ago , the financial perspectives up to 2007 were approved , and now , a few months later , resources that had been earmarked for agriculture are being withdrawn .
the second risk is that the increasing use of inward processing could put us in the extremely dangerous situation of no longer producing many agricultural products within the european union , since it would be more profitable to import them in their raw state , process them and re-export them .
the third risk relates to our negotiating strategy for the millennium round .
this week , the commission has approved a document on the competitiveness of our exports , which reveals its fundamental position on the various types of export aid .
the commission ' s position is quite clear : the european union will not in future accept reductions , within the wto , only in support for export refunds - there will also have to be reductions in all types of support provided by our main competitors in the international markets , ranging from export credits to food aid and state-run businesses .
the european union ' s stance on this issue is totally correct : all types of aid which have a similar effect must come under the wto rules , not only the refund system used by the european union .
mr president , in complimenting mr souchet on his work , i express my disappointment and concern with regard to the commission proposal to reduce subsidies worth eur 145 million per year to the food and drink industry .
i fully support the rapporteur in his proposals that the measure should only be introduced on a temporary basis and that aid should be introduced to cushion the effects on the sectors which are most affected .
it is only right and proper that we negotiate a new regulatory framework for exports or products not covered by annex i as part of the wto millennium round .
with the proposed enlargement of the european union to central and eastern europe , we must take a strong hand in safeguarding our european objective which , of course , is to develop agriculture as a major and competitive player in world trade .
already our competitors have demonstrated their negotiating skills in this crucial area of international policy .
in this sense , an interim regulation is essential .
i hope that your deliberations will lead to a consensus that opens the way for a rapid implementation early in the new budgetary year .
export refunds are an important instrument in sustaining the industry ' s competitiveness by compensating for high prices of basic agricultural products in the union .
it is for this reason that the commission has proposed , within a balanced package of specific measures , an additional facility of inward processing relief - ipr - that will help compensate for the industry ' s loss of international competitiveness .
the commission can agree with your proposed amendments nos 2 , 6 , 10 , 13 and 15 .
the commission can broadly agree with the purpose of amendments nos 1 , 3 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 11 , 14 but does not consider them entirely appropriate for a number of reasons .
the remaining flexibility under the 2000 budget has already been used , which relates to amendment no 9 .
finally , the commission is not ready to accept amendments nos 4 , 5 , 12 , 16 and part of amendment no 1 .
this relates to part of amendments nos 1 , 4 , 12 and 16 .
moreover , the use of c-sugar in processed products for export is not possible under current market organisation : this concerns amendment no 12 .
operators importing products under the ipr do not receive any refund for the export of processed goods , so the assumption in amendment no 5 is incorrect .
mr president , permit me to address two comments to the commission .
firstly , the commissioner said : in view of the " high prices of basic agricultural products in the union " .
the debate is closed .
enforcement of civil and commercial judgments the next item is the debate on the report ( a5-0253 / 2000 ) by mrs wallis , on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , on the proposal for a council regulation ( ec ) on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters [ com ( 1999 ) 348 - c5-0169 / 1999 - 1999 / 0154 ( cns ) ] .
i hope she would approve of where we have got to today , and how the european union is now able to allow lawyers to move and practise in other member states by choice rather than force of circumstance and that by this regulation our committee will further assist a step forward in giving greater access to justice to our citizens across europe .
i want to use this occasion to say something about the importance of what we are doing here .
the original ec convention on jurisdiction and judgments of 1968 was an important landmark in this field of international private law , marking a departure from a previous patchwork of mainly bilateral treaties between various countries .
the committee has been at pains throughout this process to point out and highlight the importance of the internal market dimension of this proposal which gives us a chance to ensure even more strongly than before that our businesses and citizens can have confidence that contracts and obligations they enter into across the union will be upheld by a common framework of procedural law on jurisdiction and enforcement .
the issue that has , of course , taken most of the committee ' s time and attention has been the fact that this proposal for a regulation has coincided with the growth of e-commerce which in itself offers enormous opportunities to business and consumers within the internal market .
the committee has , as the commission will be well aware , grappled long and hard with the issues raised in articles 15 and 17 of the proposed regulation .
these two articles , in whatever combination , have to be read together .
the commission proposal in line with previous consumer protection legislation took the view in dealing with article 15 that all such disputes should go to the consumer ' s court whilst willing to defer to a general proposition that contracts concluded at a distance should fall under this category .
there can be no doubt that the brussels convention made enormous strides in simplifying the jurisdiction rules applicable to cross-border disputes but they are still a lawyer ' s dream and a litigant ' s nightmare .
the opening up of a simple effective system of cross-border disputes is the committee ' s goal in introducing the concept of adr and we welcome the way in which this has already been picked up and worked on by the commission .
there was also agreement in committee that in this evolving area we remain deeply concerned as to the impact of legislation on europe ' s e-business .
i wish to conclude with a note of thanks to my colleague on the committee , especially to our chairman who i know feels as passionately as i do about this area of law , whatever our differences , but my biggest set of thanks must go to the committee secretariat and to mr robert bray for all his help and advice throughout this process .
mr president , firstly , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur of her presentation for what is a very fair and balanced report .
my committee considers it important to give a positive response to this commission proposal , which strives to make the recognition and enforcement of judgments between member states almost automatic .
my committee also considers that the provision of the regulation which seeks to protect the weaker parties in a contract should be approved .
to differentiate between the rights of those buying on line and those shopping in the high street would go against the valuable work that the european parliament and the eu in general has already done in championing the rights of the citizens .
e-consumers , in common with all weaker parties to a contract and indeed european citizens in general , deserve and should be given the right to a fair hearing .
finally , my committee welcomes the introduction of alternative dispute resolution procedures and hopes that this regulation can enter into force as soon as possible .
rarely have i felt as proud of my position as i am today in relation to this report , due to the work that has been carried out in committee over the last year .
we have had disagreements , mr president , but i am sure that whatever the result achieved in this house tomorrow , the work of the committee on legal affairs will have moved this issue forward significantly .
i shall now continue , mr president , on behalf of the ppe .
the internal market must be a genuine domestic market , both for businesses and for consumers .
as for the consumer , it is proposed that the scope of the special system be extended to those who sign contracts at a distance within the internal market with no distinction whatsoever between directed and undirected activities and , as the rapporteur has highlighted , it incorporates the extrajudicial resolution of disputes into the regulation .
with regard to the promotion of cross-border electronic commerce , it is proposed to allow businesses , under certain very specific and very restricted circumstances , to insert jurisdiction clauses which the consumer could accept .
furthermore , mr president , that committee worked alone , with no transparency , with no interministerial consultations and without consulting the interested parties .
it is clear that the justice and home affairs council expected that , given the weak institutional powers of this parliament in this field , even after amsterdam , the final adoption of the regulation by the council would be a mere formality .
after more than one year of discussion in the committee on legal affairs , i can say simply that the arguments levelled against its report lack foundation and are more the result of intimidation and demagoguery than of basic reasoning .
in conclusion , mr president , it seems to me that in this field of judicial cooperation parliament must send a clear signal to the council and the commission that it will not accept being sidelined or manipulated by dogmatic arguments that represent purely nationalist interests .
instead , by dint of its thorough work , parliament has here a great opportunity to demonstrate that pragmatic and reasonable solutions can be found to rebalance this proposal whatever the result tomorrow in this house .
both business and industry can gain from a common sense approach to this .
the way to persuade those consumers to take the plunge is to ensure that their rights are intact and this has to include , in my group ' s view , the right to take action in their own national court .
in reality we know that regulating the e-commerce world in the interests of both business and consumers requires a more innovative approach .
america online , for example , runs its own merchant business programme where it guarantees to support the consumer in getting legal redress from any of the businesses that use them as a provider .
even in the us , where only 8 % of websites have trustmarks , there are still considerable problems gaining legal redress .
the consumer cannot be bound to lose his right to go to court by contracts , as inserted in the report that is before us from the legal affairs committee .
more work needs to be done in the area .
i cannot deprive my constituents of their right to sue in their own courts .
i am very pleased that in my country the cbi has backed mrs wallis ' approach .
i appeal , therefore , for some common sense in this debate .
we are all struggling in the e-commerce world to get legislation that is right , to get the right balance between self-regulation and a regulatory framework which gives minimum guarantees .
this cannot be at the expense of consumers .
the shared aim of all of us is to try to find a balanced way of protecting consumers and shielding smes from differing member state jurisdictions .
in these circumstances it is not unreasonable to build on the previous content of article 15 , use the concept of " directed at " , acknowledge that this is a concept also found in american jurisprudence and utilised by wipo .
we are merely signalling a political direction but it is important that we should signal a legally certain and workable solution , not one that will create as many problems as it seeks to solve .
it has been a long and hard road .
the european commission has made a proposal which would ensure that consumers would have the right to take action in their own national courts and legal disputes arising from cross-border e-commerce transactions .
the amendments shift the balance in the report towards traders and away from consumers .
the main problem with this approach is that it assumes that consumers first read the small print in such contracts and , even if they do , that they fully understand the implications of agreeing to forego the right to sue in their own courts and the differences in relation to costs incurred , legal systems , the choice of language used and so on .
such a system will also promote the convergence and coordination of the different national legal systems and enable parties to check on the status of trading partners and suppliers , especially in an age of on-line trading .
i broadly welcome this report and i want to focus in particular on amendment no 20 , recital 26 ( new ) , which states that the commission will consider proposals for the establishment of a centralised electronic european union causebook and judgment registry database .
but we have yet to establish an infrastructure to enable the brussels convention , as amended and extended , to benefit our eu consumer citizens and to attract inward investment .
it is necessary to establish the causebook which has been inspired by a proposal from an irish lawyer , twinkle egan who has worked diligently on this initiative for some years .
any of us , while we are here in brussels , could buy something from hong kong over the internet and have it delivered to buenos aires .
however , in our opinion , the market requires the rapid settling of potential disputes by the transferral of these disputes to alternative systems of justice where experts are called upon to find solutions .
it is they who introduce new rules and new ways of settling disputes .
the globalisation of markets is producing a plurality of legal systems created by the same social groups which they are intended to serve .
what is more , we would be holding back the economic development and increase in employment which should , apparently , come with the new economy .
we do not support this approach , considering also that , in the directive on electronic commerce adopted a few months ago , we laid down rules governing the signing of on-line contracts and confirmed the validity of the principles of the internal market , rule of origin and on country control .
therefore , my group fully supports the position of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market - which tends precisely towards greater flexibility - and throws down one final challenge : legal solutions for the markets now require global responses , especially in the context of the regulation of the new economy itself .
mr president , commissioner , unlike many other meps , i am not in the habit of routinely thanking the rapporteur .
i would like to join my colleagues in thanking mrs wallis for her tremendous effort and work on this very difficult brief and i also want to support the call by my colleague , pat the cope gallagher , and my other irish colleague , nuala ahern , with regard to the establishment of a centralised european union electronic database on case-law , put forward by twinkle egan , a barrister from ireland .
however , when we look at the difficulties which have arisen with regard to this report , when we look at the disparate views - the so-called purists on behalf of the consumers or the other so-called purists on behalf of business and e-commerce - we sometimes forget that a lot of small- and medium-sized enterprises are consumers themselves , who will be trading with larger companies or larger suppliers and who deserve the same protection that i , " as an individual " or anybody else , as an individual consumer , would have .
we need to enable europe , which is lagging behind in e-commerce and internet business worldwide , to put in place new arrangements with regard to creation of on-line business and the protection of consumer rights and also to ensure that europe takes its rightful place at the top of the world trading system of internet and on-line businesses .
no consumer , " as an individual " or as a company , can be denied the ultimate right to take legal action but that does not mean that this should be the first course of action .
finally , i would once again like to thank the rapporteur and the commission representatives for their work and remind all members that there is another way under the brussels i convention and we can put other mechanisms in place .
let us agree on this report and then make changes in other areas as they come before us .
in the world of networks traditional jurisdiction-based disputes-resolution procedures are of no real help to consumers and traders when things go wrong .
we have an opportunity tomorrow to vote for the 21st century , its consumers , traders and citizens by voting for the committee ' s report or we can look at the future and then turn our back on it and find superficial comfort in the last century by voting for the amendments .
we , in my delegation and in this group , shall be voting for the 21st century ' s solutions to 21st problems and supporting the committee ' s report .
mr president , i respect your tenureship of the chair and i yield to no one in that , but i wonder how you can justify the fact that you indicate a time and then in the case of several speakers absolutely ignore it .
in general , members have respected the time limits for their interventions and , in any event , they have expressed their points of view .
the report , as it was approved within the committee , is in my view a fine example of a document which has struck a fine balance between the interests of all parties , both small- and medium-sized businesses and consumers .
we talk about ' contracts concluded at a distance ' , terminology which , even to a lay person , is far more transparent than ' directed activities ' , as is currently used in the amendment .
secondly , it is crucial in my opinion that the report offers parties themselves the opportunity of building a competence clause into their contracts .
if we deny a party contractual freedom and , with it , the constitutional right to go to court , i can foresee various procedures needing to be instituted on account of denial of justice .
in my view , the brussels convention is of major strategic importance for the development of e-commerce within the internal market and it will also have a major impact on the success or failure of small- and medium-sized businesses .
i therefore hope that this report , as approved in the committee , will be adopted in its unamended form in the plenary tomorrow .
mr president , as i have said in this chamber on previous occasions , i have the privilege of working in a very interesting legal affairs committee and being one of the few non-lawyers on the committee .
diana wallis as a distinguished international lawyer has been the ideal person to work on this very complex file .
i want to pick up on what is a central point for me : we are , as my colleague lord inglewood said , trying to reflect a new world in which we want small businesses to take advantage of the most powerful , international marketing tool that they have ever been offered .
there are many business that we want to use the network , the internet , to sell to consumers all over europe .
large businesses , even medium-sized businesses , will have offices all over europe , they will have lawyers , they will be able to deal with consumers in that respect .
what we have done is offer small companies the alternative of doing something else .
they can offer consumers alternative jurisdiction but only under very specific conditions .
it gives them choices and it reflects their enhanced status in a new internet world , which gives them more power and more choices than ever before .
even more importantly , it will also threaten the new economy and the e-economy in the european union .
we have uncertainty and legal risk for business without genuine consumer protection , because in many cases the right to sue in your own home court may be illusory if you cannot enforce the judgment without going overseas and incurring the same inconvenience as if you had to go overseas in any event to litigate this issue .
the scope of this regulation is therefore very broad .
to achieve greater flexibility and to adapt more efficiently to the specific needs of the parties in a given dispute , the proposal for a regulation lays down alternative rules for jurisdiction , essentially the jurisdiction of the courts in the member state of the place where the contract was concluded or of the place where the damage was done in the event that an offence has been committed .
as long as certain conditions are met , these parties have the right to bring a case before a court in the member state in which they reside .
it is therefore worth bearing in mind that in the field of contracts , we are dealing with legal rules on general contracts between companies , between companies and consumers , and even contracts between private individuals .
there is an enormous and immediate advantage in moving towards adopting a regulation on this matter on the basis of civil judicial cooperation .
furthermore , we are convinced that it is possible to make use of new communication technologies , such as the internet , the new network concept and flows to facilitate extrajudicial dispute resolution .
there must therefore be rules on the jurisdiction of the courts in those cases - which the commission hopes will be rare - where an alternative form of resolution is not possible or does not produce a satisfactory result .
accordingly , with regard to consumer contracts the commission found the discussion in the committee on legal affairs extremely useful and takes the view that the second part of amendment no 23 contains a principle which is considerably clearer and more reliable than that contained in our original proposal .
this action would , however , have two consequences for article 15 .
first of all , its wording needs to be adapted so that it does not limit the scope of article 15 to contracts concluded in the consumer ' s home , which is an impossible condition to establish for contracts concluded electronically .
we are therefore not inclined to retain the first part of amendment no 23 .
the same thing applies to the amendment seeking to open up the system laid down in the brussels convention on jurisdiction clauses in consumer contracts .
i am referring here to article 17 .
the new article 17 ( a ) that has been proposed seeks to replace the guarantees provided by the courts by an extrajudicial and binding system of dispute resolution .
such a solution would , in fact , raise constitutional issues in some member states , in which it is not possible to prohibit access to the courts , even if only as a last resort , and would open the way for an interpretation of what is a question of law and what is a question of fact in this type of contract which , in my opinion , would vitiate the efficiency and speed of the system .
the commission ' s view is that this regulation should not depend on the adoption of a package of legislative and non-legislative measures on e-commerce between companies and consumers .
i would remind you of the revision of the commission ' s 1998 recommendation on the principles applying to alternative dispute resolution bodies , which in fact form the basis of what is known as the eej-net - the european extrajudicial network - which has already been launched .
we therefore think that , in order to allow this process some time in which to develop , it would be appropriate if the entry into force of this regulation were postponed for a few months .
the debate is closed .
this debate is opened on behalf of the council and commission .
the commission believes that the solidarity shown by the other member states can and must support the spanish authorities ' fight against terrorism .
the commission therefore welcomes the step forward represented by the enshrinement in the treaty of amsterdam of the principle of solidarity in the fight against terrorism .
article 29 of the treaty on european union specifically mentions terrorism as one of the forms of crime to be prevented and fought at european level and one of the areas in which the european union can bring added value to this fight .
we must go further in terms of european cooperation .
the treaty of amsterdam , as i have already stated , enables the european union to make this contribution .
europol , whose mandate expressly covers terrorism , must also give its support to this joint action and participate in these joint investigation teams .
the greater operational capacity europol has , the more effective its support will be .
although it is true that in many cases bilateral cooperation between police forces is an essential instrument for combating terrorism , it is no less true that the need to establish the link between some terrorist acts and other forms of organised crime , in its methods , in its networks of activity and even in its sources of financing , requires a multilateral , not just a bilateral vision of the phenomenon of terrorism .
in democratic societies such as ours , terrorism cannot take shelter behind any supposedly political justification .
hence , all terrorist attacks are not just attacks on democracy and the rule of law but they also prevent europe ' s citizens from enjoying the freedom that we all desire .
mr president , i am convinced that the vast majority of basque people , given the opportunity , would thank the french presidency of the council and the european parliament for echoing their deep desire for peace and democratic coexistence .
ladies and gentlemen , since the first democratic elections took place in spain in 1977 , the basque country has emerged as the european region with the highest degree of self-government .
however , since our constitution was approved , enshrining the democratic rights of the people of spain , eta has killed 804 people in my country and left over 2000 widows and orphans all over spain , mainly in the basque country .
today , thanks to this debate , they are a little less alone .
mr president , last thursday while we were presenting a written declaration to the parliament register through which we sought a direct and active commitment from the european parliament in the fight against eta terrorism , this criminal organisation attempted to kill jose ramon recalde .
recalde , a 70-year-old socialist , has dedicated his life to defending democracy and freedom .
this is something he pursued as a teacher in san sebastian in the turbulent 1960s , when he became , in the eyes of his students , an example of intellectual rigour and human decency .
what is more , ladies and gentlemen , the damage inflicted on us by eta goes beyond damage to our coexistence , to the attacks on our freedom and on our lives .
but before that , in 1977 , there was a general amnesty in spain and all political prisoners , among them all members of eta that had been imprisoned during the franco years , were freed .
everything is subject to change , but we shall never accept terrorism as an instrument for changing our will .
democracy and human rights are the very raison d ' etre of the european union .
this is why whenever fascist and totalitarian acts committed by eta in one part of europe strip us of our freedom , people elsewhere in europe must feel that our freedom , everyone ' s freedom - whatever a person ' s nationality , language , culture or religion - is under threat . ( the president asked the speaker to conclude ) ladies and gentlemen , i simply wanted to say that the people of the basque country are normal , ordinary people , who are anxious to find a way out of this impasse , and be free to walk around our towns without watching our backs .
we simply want to live in peace and defend our freedom .
i should like to point out that at the summit of the heads of state and government which was held on 19 and 20 june this year in santa maria da feira , in portugal , the council expressed its outrage at the tragic events related to terrorism in europe and vigorously reaffirmed its commitment to continuing to fight terrorism at european level and to stepping up and intensifying cooperation between member states in this area .
since france currently holds the council presidency , at this point i would particularly like to express our solidarity in the face of the terrorism in spain , which is the most deadly in europe at the present time .
in no instance can violent nationalism be compatible with the ideals of the european union .
it is the role and the responsibility of the european union in combating terrorism in general , and therefore also terrorism in spain , which i wished to discuss this morning in my capacity as co-chairman , together with elisabeth guigou , the french minister of justice , of the justice and home affairs council .
the implementation of this network , undoubtedly the most effective cooperative network , was the result of the action programme adopted in dublin in june 1990 by the ministers of justice and home affairs of the twelve member states at that time .
i should also at this point mention the role played by the european police office , europol , in combating terrorism .
the initial wording of the convention stipulated that europol ' s mandate would be extended to terrorism within two years at the latest of the convention ' s entry into force , which was on 1 october 1998 .
as you know , there is a europol department dedicated to combating terrorism .
in view of the criminal activity undertaken at that time by some terrorist groups , the justice and home affairs council , which met on 28 and 29 may 1998 , took the decision to authorise europol to bring forward its counter-terrorism activities and have them begin on 1 january 1999 .
in particular , the french presidency wishes to improve and intensify the cooperation between member states , but also to extend this cooperation yet further to include the candidate countries .
among the priorities of the french presidency i should particularly like to mention the initiative to establish a programme of information and measures to be undertaken in order to prepare for the accession of the candidate countries to the european union .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it is this system , with a combination of bilateral and multilateral cooperation , which very recently , in fact just a few days ago , made it possible to achieve some remarkable successes in the fight against terrorism in spain .
mr president , while we have been here discussing these issues , jose luis ruiz , a town councillor of the governing partido popular party in a town in catalonia , has been murdered by eta .
some are trying to confuse us and seem intent on creating confusion between the people of good will in parliament .
it is important for a parliament to speak out in public on this kind of matter .
this is why i strongly urge those that presented the declaration - as i have done so in private and do so now publicly - to do all they can to enable us to sign it , because any position that is adopted on terrorism requires universal backing .
on the other hand , if this declaration is supposed to stem from the 1997 declaration adopted by parliament , which spoke of dialogue in positive terms , it would seem strange not to have recourse to it , and in particular , to the eighth paragraph in which parliament considers dialogue in positive terms .
a few days ago in strasbourg , president nicole fontaine herself made reference to all of the democrats of europe , men and women alike , and especially the basque country in spain , which , in her view , continues to believe in political dialogue , despite the climate of terror that exists .
i shall not quote from the text , but the commissioner ' s report on terrorism presented to parliament in 1997 is there for consultation .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , although all groups , including ours , must be self-critical , it is now time we set to work and , above all , attempted to combat such a serious problem as terrorism from solid foundations , the maximum consensus possible and , of course , in the knowledge that dialogue has been , is and will always be the most valued method for achieving peace and reconciliation .
we could have presented an alternative text here , but this would have been a serious mistake because in our view , resolving a matter as serious and important as this requires us to do everything that we can , except to put forward proposals that divide parliament .
thirty years ago at the height of the franco dictatorship in 1970 , i was in prison for championing freedoms and at that time i was against eta .
i shall end , mr president , by recalling the words of jorge luis borges when he wrote " around 500 years before the christian era , the greatest thing to happen in the history of the world occurred in greece - the discovery of dialogue .
today is pointless already , after all that we have heard about the significance of eta terrorism , its devastating effects on the population , its outright assault on the democratic values enshrined in the spanish constitution of 1978 and in the statute of guernica , that cost the countless efforts and sacrifices of the basque and spanish people as a whole to achieve .
political dialogue should take place between democratic parties , whether they be nationalist or not , with convergencia democratica de catalunya , with convergencia i unio , with the pnv , with eusko alkartasuna , with izquierda unida , with the psoe , with the governing partido popular , and within the institutions , transparently and clearly , on behalf of the people and answering to all spanish citizens .
they are not tolerant , they have spoken for more than three-quarters of an hour , they cannot stand just one minute by me , that is their democracy . ( continuing protests ) the day when the european union will stand for a political solution , i will assure you that for 100 % of the basque inhabitants , including pp and socialists , will be the happiest day in our lives .
mr president , on behalf of the british conservatives , i should like to offer our strong support to the spanish authorities in their fight against terrorism .
we support the spanish government and security forces in their tough stance against eta terrorism and express solidarity with the spanish people and in particular , those that have suffered directly as victims of terrorism . ( applause ) mr president , let us send out a very clear and unequivocal message from this parliament today that violence has no role of any description in solving the problems of a divided people .
organisations which use violence , should be told very clearly that their claim to be acting to achieve human and civil rights for people is completely false , because their method undermines the most fundamental human right of all , the right to life .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i of course support the unreserved condemnation and outrage that everyone within this chamber feels at the news that the blindest and most cowardly form of terrorism has struck once again in spain , at 7.40 this morning , making a victim of jose ruiz , a municipal councillor in sant adria de besos , in catalonia .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of the commission , i would just like to add my own deepest sympathy with regard to the victim of the attack which occurred in catalonia this morning , and also to stress my concern at the events in london .
in particular , i want to state that , outside this debate on the legal instruments - police cooperation , legal cooperation , the questions of how to make the extradition system more effective and how to ensure a european mandate for investigation , which we are looking into - there is an added value which europe is providing in the fight for freedom and democracy .
we must never lose faith in the fact that freedom and democracy are values for all time .
parliament needs to facilitate dialogue between the democrats .
mr president , i am now in a position to provide parliament with more details .
the debate is closed .
getting effective sanctions means firstly exploiting eu powers for anti-discrimination laws and agreeing the article 13 race directive in record time sent the right signal of determination .
effectiveness also means stepping up intergovernmental police and judicial cooperation under article 29 of the eu treaty and ways to do that are explored here .
firstly , i regret that the opportunity has been taken to identify specific countries and parties as especially bad e.g .
mr president , in response to an inquiry from the pds group in the bundestag , the german government revealed that in 1999 , a total of 2031 right-wing extremist and anti-semitic criminal offences were committed in germany .
the well-known german newspaper ' der tagesspiegel ' records that there have been 93 murders with a right-wing extremist background over the past ten years .
but there are just as many reasons that have to do with the developments that have taken place over the last ten years , for example the dissociation of economic and social development in eastern germany from that in the former bundeslander , the lack of respect for east germans ' curriculum vitaes and their experience , and the lack of rigour in the debate on right-wing extremism past and present .
the council and the presidency attach great importance to the european conference against racism " all different , all equal " which will be held in strasbourg between 11 and 13 october 2000 , in preparation for the 2001 un world conference against racism .
the council does intend , and i must stress this , to present a common position at the world conference which is due to be held next year in south africa , and work on finalising this common position has already been set in motion .
in order to coordinate their positions ready for the european conference , the member sates will , of course , take account of the very useful recommendations given in the document provided by the commission departments on 17 april .
i should , further , like to point out that on 21 june 2000 , the council directive was adopted , implementing the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin .
because of the duplication that now exists between this directive and the proposal for a directive on the creation of a general framework promoting equal treatment in employment and work - the directive on discrimination - racial discrimination was withdrawn from its scope , but let me remind you that the scope of this proposal for a directive is a great deal more limited than that of the directive previously adopted , which covers not only the sectors of employment and work but also social protection , welfare benefits and education , as well as access to goods and services and the provision of goods and services .
next , work on the community action programme to combat discrimination is well underway within the council and i can safely state today that , if the european parliament issues its opinion during its first part-session in october , the council will be in a position to adopt a political agreement on this text on 17 october , so that the text could be adopted before the end of the french presidency , enabling the programme to be launched , as anticipated , on 1 january 2001 .
finally , on the subject of the 1996 joint action concerning action to combat racism and xenophobia , in may 1998 the council examined a report on member states ' compliance with the obligations upon them under the joint action and decided that the implementation of this joint action should be re-examined in 2000 .
the two monsters in europe today are terrorism and racism .
in 1996 , the council approved a joint action on judicial cooperation between member states on questions of racism .
articles 29 and 13 allow us to adopt quite specific policies .
secondly , two directives have been proposed on the basis of article 13 ; the directive on racial discrimination was voted through by the european parliament and the council in record time , a mere six months , and is now part of european legislation .
we have already submitted two documents incorporating all the experience and proposals on how to combat racism at community level , together with our experience in matters of education , training , research and policy for young people in order to address these matters .
there is financial support for the conference as regards non-governmental organisations because we believe that they can play an important role , over and above the role of governments and , of course , we are negotiating for support for the involvement of non-governmental organisations in the regional conferences to be held in chile , senegal and iran .
we can , moreover , even see the revival of racism in some european union countries .
in this , as the commission , the council of ministers and parliament , we have a shared responsibility and we want to be very scrupulous about this common approach , as europe ' s credibility , at this world conference against racism , will depend , above all , on our assessment of the situation and on how credible we are on our own territory .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i think that this debate serves as a timely continuation of the debate we held in parliament first thing this morning on the issue of terrorism in spain .
i say that this debate is a timely continuation of this morning ' s debate because , as john hume has so often reminded us in parliament , all conflicts are linked to the notion of difference , all conflicts focus on what we do not accept in others .
john hume has also reminded us on many occasions in parliament that the european union is and must continue to be an example of conflict resolution .
one could say that the european union today is the practical expression of the exact opposite to the notions of terrorism and racism .
however , mr president , i think there is another , more important issue that we must tackle without delay .
mr president , from the racial persecution in el ejido , in spain , to the murder of mozambicans in east germany , everywhere incidents of racist violence are inflaming passions in the heart of europe .
we have only succeeded in combating the front national effectively in france because we never had any government alliance .
i shall conclude by thanking commissioner diamantopoulou for making the comparison between terrorism and racism , because i consider that it is an attack on the physical dignity of persons , and as such is intolerable .
in relation to this report , i would like to focus particularly on amendment no 6 - which i hope will be rejected - which cites the political movement to which i belong as a racist party .
i reiterate : in italy , my movement is not currently arraigned on charges of racism and has never been convicted of racism in the past , and i therefore fiercely reject this accusation .
they make up between 1 and 2.5 % of the population over there , according to a recent german press source .
our fellow mep , andre brie provides a clear and plausible answer to this .
but this debate should never be misused for other purposes .
what we really need is a plan for tackling the root causes , immigration policy strategies that take account of integration capacity , and of an individual member state ' s absorption capacity , also strategies leading to a common asylum policy which help refugees whilst tackling abuse , and measures promoting integration .
the same applies to you , mr pirker , in every sense .
in the united states of america , where , in 2050 , whites will be in a minority , there is an american nazi party and there is a candidate for the american presidential elections from the nazi party , but no one thinks of banning it , no one is afraid , because the weapons of democracy and freedom are being used to combat racism .
this is how racism must be fought , and this is how we must fight it in europe .
the events that took place in dessau , munich , ludwigshafen , dusseldorf are of such concern to us primarily because violent acts were committed against defenceless people with great indifference and coldbloodedness .
commissioner diamantopoulou made the point very clearly that there are two monsters facing us here in europe , terrorism and racism .
if europe wishes to play a central role in the world conference against racism it has to start seeing itself as others see it rather than as we would like to be .
over the past few weeks , the german government has made an additional dm 70 million available for just such projects .
however , whether some of us like it or not , europe is already a multiracial and multicultural continent and no racist is going to stop people intermingling and intermarrying .
the package of measures which commissioner diamantopoulou has already presented is , in my view , an integrated proposal and may provide a convincing response to the racism and xenophobia which we are witnessing today in the european union .
that the state and political leaders have a responsibility goes without saying .
the debate is closed .
in so doing , they undermine our national economies , and in view of corruption , also erode our social systems and states .
firstly , because the failure to involve parliament has taken us a step backwards , not just to the days before the treaty of amsterdam , but long before the treaty of maastricht , because according to chapter 6 , parliament must be involved in every case .
the presidency has also committed itself to involving parliament to a greater extent in the work undertaken in the field of justice and home affairs , in particular by means of regular participation in the meetings of your parliamentary committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs .
on the other hand , as you know , on 21 december 1999 , the council sent parliament the strategy document on organised crime drawn up under the finnish presidency , expressly specifying that it wished to keep parliament informed right from the start of discussions on this document .
ladies and gentlemen , the council is not unaware that , in response to the strategy document , parliament is currently working on a new document on organised crime .
we are pleased to see the work carried out by parliament .
mr president , the treaty of amsterdam marked the beginning of the so-called ' communitisation ' of many policies , but not those relating to criminal matters in both procedural and substantive terms .
mr president , i should like to thank the french presidency for its very clear statement .
legal and police cooperation is absolutely vital in the fight against organised crime , particularly the trafficking of human beings , the sexual exploitation of children , and money laundering .
criminal organisations can find themselves in a position of strength thanks to the financial operations they carry out in order to launder criminal proceeds .
the fight against organised crime is an important undertaking , where we must not fail .
the europe we want to build is a europe of rights .
the liberal group believes that , in addition to all kinds of practical measures which are included in the document , it is , in particular , high time that criminal prosecution was improved by means of european cooperation .
i would like to take this opportunity to argue once again in favour of setting up a european public prosecution office .
organised crime in the european union has seen significant developments over the last decade , requiring action essentially in the areas of computer crime , crime involving trafficking in human beings , drugs and arms , terrorism , child pornography and money-laundering as well as corruption and fraud .
the european citizens , who , every day , live through the drama of all forms of petty and serious crime - from international drug trafficking to the sexual exploitation of children , from the trafficking and exploitation of human beings to illegal immigration - who live in towns which are unsafe or even dangerous , would like to be able to express their opinions and to lay claim , democratically , through their representatives at the european parliament , to their rights and priorities of security and the fight against crime .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 11 a.m .
vote mr president , first of all i should like to say that i am astounded at the vote on amendment no 16 because , as far as i was aware , it had been withdrawn , but , more especially , i should like to request that my report be referred back to committee pursuant to rule 69 ( 2 ) .
i am therefore requesting , mr president , that my request for referral to committee be put to the vote .
mr president , i would like to support the rapporteur ' s motion .
we want this regulation but we want it with our improvements .
during the debate late last night there were at least ten speakers who all raised points very critical of the commission .
i felt very sorry for commissioner nielson who had to respond as duty commissioner and who read out about half a page prepared by commissioner liikanen .
now we can see that , in europe , the left supports left-wing racism and is in favour of left-wing anti-semitism ! ( uproar ) these are all very interesting political games but the procedure is that we hold the debate and vote afterwards .
moreover , as i would not class myself as one of those who do not participate in committee work , i would like to remind the house that it was we who tabled the amendments and point out that we maintained a very balanced line in committee .
mr president , this is a plea for everyone to calm down a little on the subject of this debate on racism .
it is a report which is intended to assist developing countries in preserving the environment .
skinner report ( a5-0222 / 2000 ) mr president , as representative of the pensioners ' party , i was very happy to vote for the skinner report , which lays down safety measures to prevent occupational accidents .
it is important that untruths are rapidly rebutted .
all other questions ought to be dealt with at local , regional or national levels .
hernandez mollar report ( a5-0225 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the hernandez mollar report because pensioners and elderly people are extremely concerned by what might happen to them with modernisation and the development of electronic and computer science .
this convention was signed on 15 june 1990 .
the proposed revised wording for articles 22 and 23 of the eurodac regulation , which is what has currently been referred to parliament , was therefore rejected by the committee which proposed , instead , an amendment endowing the commission with the unconditional right to exercise implementing powers .
we were very pleased to note that , at the council meeting ( legal affairs and the internal market ) on 29 october 1999 , the danish government stated that it wanted to participate fully in eurodac cooperation on an intergovernmental basis .
the socialist group voted accordingly in that particular parliament vote and hopes that the commission and the council will accept our proposals .
mr pirker , the rapporteur , opted to comment only on the part of the report that had been amended .
glase report ( a5-0220 / 2000 ) mr president , ' illegal work ' could also be referred to as ' underground work ' .
if we want to combat illegal working practices we must also permit pensioners - who live on low , paltry , starvation-ration pensions - to receive a regular salary in addition to a pension , or else they will be forced to remain underground , where they could well end up suffocating .
if parliament truly wished to combat undeclared work , it would have to begin by proposing that any employer guilty of employing a non-declared worker should be forced to employ that person under an open-ended contract .
it is clear , nonetheless , that the member states would be well advised to coordinate their efforts in order to establish a proactive strategy to combat this scourge .
bringing " greater flexibility to the labour market " ( point 11 of the motion for a resolution ) , making " efforts to reduce tax and contribution levels " ( point 11 ) , and promoting " flexible working hours " ( point 26 ) will not be sufficient to reduce the extent of undeclared work .
a new phase of brussels-inspired regulating mania would be neither use nor ornament in the fight against illicit work in the member states of the european union .
unfortunately , the european parliament report under discussion goes in completely the wrong direction ; it basically backs employers and calls for even more neo-liberal measures on the job market , ostensibly in order to wipe out undeclared work .
resolution on racism ( b5-0766 / 2000 ) i would like to express my disappointment and dismay at the ppe ' s vote on the resolution on the world conference against racism .
after much soul-searching in the socialist group we decided that we would withdraw that amendment in the interests of getting the largest majority possible in parliament against the forces of racism , the extreme right and anti-semitism .
mr president , on behalf of my group , i should also like to express our disappointment at our failure to successfully conclude this matter , in spite of all of the efforts we all made so that the european union could adopt a strong position , with the backing of parliament , on something as important as the world conference against racism .
a desire to link the issue of racism with the situation in austria represents an attempt to defame the country of austria .
we radicals consider that parliament and europe must also learn from their past , which lives on today through prohibitions , be they right-wing , left-wing , socialist or extreme right-wing .
in principle , we welcome the action plan put forward by the council , but we also join the committee in criticising the council over its consultation obligations .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday , 21 september 2000 .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting the minutes of the sitting on thursday , 21 september have been distributed .
yes indeed , mrs thors , we shall amend the minutes accordingly . ( the minutes were approved ) presidency communication on the situation in the middle east ladies and gentlemen , in the last few days , as you know , jerusalem , other towns and the palestinian territories have been thrown into a state of unrest , and there have already been many victims .
the european union has reacted already .
madam president , i sent you a letter on behalf of my group requesting an amendment to the agenda on the issue which you have just addressed in a most dignified way .
in my opinion , since parliament issued a very timely joint invitation to the speakers of the knesset and the palestinian legislative council a month ago , specifically in order to indicate its willingness to become involved in promoting the peace process , we cannot , as members of this parliament , remain silent today .
i also have last thursday 's events in belgrade in mind , and would like to suggest that we should include the middle east peace process in tomorrow 's debate on the biarritz summit .
thank you , mr sterckx , we take note of your statement .
i also think that we and the commission should look carefully to see if the timetable for directive 98 / 18 on safety arrangements for ferry boat passengers can be reduced , given that some of the provisions in this directive last until 2009 .
i also consider that it is wrong for greece to have a derogation as regards liberalising transport by 2004 because this erodes safety standards in greece , in my own country , even further .
madam president , following the tragic events of last week in the aegean , yesterday 's suspension of over 60 greek passenger ships which do not comply with eu laws is , i am sure , welcomed by the whole house .
as early as december in nice , however , majority decision-making is to be introduced in the social and labour-market spheres , as referred to in articles 42 and 137 .
if , subsequently - and with article 42 as a basis - the circle of people covered by regulation no 1408 is enlarged , and if majority voting is introduced under article 137 on , for example , the criteria for granting unemployment benefit , this would have major consequences for both social and labour-market policy in denmark .
unfortunately , these 79 or 80 victims fell foul of large , profit-seeking shipowners .
however much some people are trying to blame the crew , the fact remains that the vessel was over 35 years old , that it should not , in fact , have been sailing and that it sank extremely quickly , preventing more people from being saved .
this centre accommodates refugees attempting to enter great britain , apparently attracted by more favourable reception conditions , and also because of the greater problems in entering at other borders .
i have written to commissioner vitorino to this effect , in order to convey our determination to have a joint european policy on this , indeed our demand for this , before further tragedies have a chance to happen .
mr trakatellis , this is something the house is going to decide upon in a few moments , when we come to setting the agenda .
the conference of presidents turned down my request for this urgency , but this matter continues day after day , week after week .
thank you , mr kirkhope .
madam president , after listening to my danish colleague , you can appreciate the fatuous level at which the debate was carried on in denmark , a debate which led to a ' no ' vote .
i shall of course do so , mr davies .
madam president , the racist incidents in germany since the last part-session sadly mean that i have to raise this issue again .
thank you , mrs schroder .
relating to tuesday : the confederal group of the european united left has approached me with a request to include council and commission statements on the situation in the middle east .
mr wurtz , we are currently talking about the tuesday sitting .
i propose postponing my proposal until thursday afternoon when mr solana is present .
the aim of the ppe-de ' s proposal is to raise a major issue , such as item 5 , which allows us to discuss the shipping disaster in greece at length .
i have received a request for a roll call vote on this .
unfortunately , mr maccormick , this is just not possible .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i must firstly express my satisfaction at the proposed regulation on the principles for registers of taxes and social contributions in accordance with the criteria of the european system of national and regional accounts ( esa 95 ) .
i must say that , in general , the joint position of the council largely includes the criteria of the european parliament ' s position .
i therefore repeat that the joint position of the council must be supported , in my opinion , because this regulation introduces a mechanism for adapting to the european system of accounts 95 which ensures , effectively , comparability and transparency in the public accounting of the member states in areas as sensitive and important as those relating to the calculation of the public deficit .
as you know , commissioner , in its part-session of april this year , parliament approved , at first reading , an amendment on the transitional right in its application which said that the member states could request a transitional period from the commission of no more than two years to adapt their accounting systems to the provisions of this regulation .
mr president , firstly i would like to thank all the speakers for their comments .
the work carried out by parliament and the council has been enormously useful .
the commission fully approves the joint position of the council , which now includes the various amendments tabled by parliament at first reading .
however , two points have been raised which to a certain extent are still to be clarified .
the debate is closed .
public authorities here as in elsewhere also have a key role to play in providing risk capital and financial support in areas where the private sector will fear to tread .
of amendments nos 10 to 20 , i only approve amendments nos 14 , 17 and part of amendment no 18 .
the present communication shows that even if some progress has been made europe still has some major weaknesses , particularly when compared with its main competitors .
we should ask ourselves whether the deadline of 2003 is too late for europe .
i welcome the view put forward by gordon brown and others that we should think about accelerating the timetable , in both the risk capital action plan and the financial services action plan .
the proposal for a directive on supplementary pension funds is essential for the growth of venture capital in europe .
the employment and social committee wanted to make a reference to the findings of the recent report on supplementary pensions , particularly on the prudential rules .
institutional investors such as insurance companies , investment funds and pension funds play an increasingly predominant role in providing risk capital .
it covers all the key points as regards promoting a risk capital culture in europe .
this is particularly necessary given that efficient risk capital markets play a very important role in creating jobs on the one hand , and on the other , in increasing productivity , in financing rapidly growing companies and in creating new businesses .
the report indicates that 66 % of all jobs in the community are in smes and that 80 % to 90 % of funding secured through venture capital is used to hire staff .
although there has been rapid growth in venture capital here over the last five years , europe is still way behind the united states in this area , especially in the high-growth areas of information and biotechnology , and also in the area of health care , including preventive health care , a totally new field that is constantly growing .
this means that pension funds are playing an ever-greater role in providing risk capital .
to sum up , i would like to emphasise once again that the commission communication , combined with the report , can potentially provide a strong impetus for combining forces in the risk capital sector .
mr president , as we all know , the european parliament has , in successive reports and motions for many years now , expressed its interest in and sensitivity towards small and medium-sized enterprises and their problems .
the commission ' s action programmes have done little along these lines ; and yet , in the commission ' s announcement and parliament ' s report , here we are promoting options which are mainly of interest to big lenders and , more to the point , we are doing so on in the name of small and medium-sized enterprises .
the development of the risk capital sector in europe will mainly encourage small and medium-sized businesses to attract capital .
another concern , expressed - rightly so , in my opinion - in paragraph 22 of the motion for a resolution , relates to the possible patenting of natural materials , such as genes and plants .
our tax and administration systems create special problems .
these systems are far too complicated and are often incomprehensible , so that companies of this kind face frustrating obstacles .
the proposed implementation of the action plan is the right way to go and is part of the structural reforms still needed in europe despite all the progress made in implementing structural reforms in the markets for products , capital and services .
furthermore , the commission communication also indicates , and this was also quite rightly taken on board in the report , that we have still not made sufficient progress in building an integrated pan-european risk capital market , and that this is a weak area for the eu .
risk capital investment in europe has more than doubled over the last four years , but only eur 7 billion was invested in europe , compared with eur 12 billion in the usa .
lastly , i would like to stress that this is an area where women entrepreneurs should benefit from special support , and i wish to emphasise that we , the european parliament , should be calling on the commission to monitor progress in this field by means of benchmarking and a scoreboard process .
thirdly , why should public risk capital only be applied in areas which the private sector is reluctant to finance ?
we wish to promote a dynamic spirit of entrepreneurship in europe , but there are still countless difficulties blocking the path of people wanting to become entrepreneurs and to carry out profitable projects .
venture capital companies have a major role to play in this field and the european union must make more rapid progress if it wishes to catch up , in particular with the united states , which is currently far ahead of us .
we feel that the commission ' s proposal is a step in the right direction , although i also think that we must move ahead more quickly , as stated in the amendment requesting the commission to submit an action plan for 2000 in the field of risk capital and to adopt an integrated approach that combines all the community instruments in a coherent way .
as the honourable members know - some speakers have mentioned it - the european council at lisbon paid particular attention to promoting our efforts to implement risk capital in such a way that the action plan will be finished in 2003 .
the communication will include a mechanism for comparative monitoring and assessment to provide precise knowledge of what is happening in each of the member states , and to allow us to draw relevant conclusions and to introduce , into those countries which consider it appropriate , the best practices which have been adopted in others .
nevertheless , these two specific issues must not lead us to forget other aspects which you have highlighted , such as the improvement of the economic , regulatory and legislative situation , which is essential if risk capital is to be as dynamic as it is in the united states .
some of you have mentioned the problem of public funding in the case of risk capital and we certainly have to clarify the compatibility of that public funding with all the legislation on competition .
as for the commission , we are now going to present the first report on what has been done , which will no doubt serve as an incentive for the member states to act by comparing their actions with those of others .
thank you very much , mr solbes .
the debate is closed .
third asia-europe meeting in seoul , 20-21 october 2000 ( asem iii ) the next item is the commission statement on the third asia-europe meeting in seoul on 20 and 21 october ( asem iii ) .
this meeting will mark the maturing of a process which began four years ago in bangkok .
this process complements our bilateral relations with our ten asian partners , as well as our relations with asean , and contributes to the process of integration in asia and in europe .
the asem process is built on three pillars : the political , the economic and the cultural .
the asem process has aided the asean + 3 process , bringing north and south-east asia even closer together .
in the union we also had to , and still have to , learn how to efficiently manage a process which seeks to promote political dialogue in order to deepen the economic relationship between the two regions and increase personal and cultural contacts .
the process is based on a relationship of equality .
by stressing the original idea that this process of dialogue should be developed as a process between equal partners and kept as informal as possible , without an institutionalised secretariat , we have managed , despite certain difficulties , to convince our asian partners that we wish to have equal relations with them , going beyond any donor-receiver relationship with them or any post-colonial standpoint .
i would also like to add that , within the broader framework of the asem process , we are holding a constructive series of seminars on human rights organised jointly with the asia-europe foundation .
the exploitation of illegal immigrants , women and children , particularly in the virulent sex industry , will not only be a subject for debate , but also initiatives will be taken to combat this scourge of our times , which is linked to poverty and insecurity .
in the field of the economy , 1993 was a significant year , since it was the critical moment when our exports to asia exceeded our exports to the united states .
the second asem meeting , which took place in london in 1998 , successfully overcame the crisis .
we supported our asian partners and we adopted concrete measures , such as the significant commitment on trade and investments which reversed the earlier trend and led to a considerable commercial deficit with our partners .
the creation of a trust fund , the establishment of a european financial network of experts and the adoption of two action plans to assist trade and promote investments are other concrete measures which show that europe is concerned about asia , not only in the good times but also in times of crisis .
this is part of our strategy to make progress on the consensus in favour of an immediate start to a new global round .
it is important to fill the cultural vacuum between our two regions .
the final text will reflect the discussions between the leaders , but good work has already been carried out .
finally , the 2000 framework for cooperation between europe and asia , an updated version of the first one , adopted at the last meeting in london , outlines the objectives and procedures which will govern the asem process over the next decade .
in contrast to the last version , the importance of human rights and cooperation in safeguarding the environment have been added , to give just two examples .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , asia is one of the regions of the world where the european union 's potential in terms of political influence has not been fulfilled .
and where the european union has not achieved its full potential it is also possible that it has not assumed its full responsibility either .
that is why the asem process is so enormously important .
i think i can say that the commission largely has parliament 's support in promoting this process .
this is something else that can be achieved through the asem process .
there is still insufficient interest in mutual understanding between these two regions of the world , although economic and trade policy , and a shared interest in a security partnership , do exist .
the successes of the last two summits in bangkok and london cannot disguise the fact that the asem process is not sufficiently dynamic .
but we need more than that if we are to make progress in security policy under the osce process in europe and also as regards territorial issues in asia or human rights and democratic issues in burma and elsewhere , with a view to stabilising the region .
it is also vital for the increasingly important issues of company delocalisations , employment standards and other social issues to be discussed in a social forum which meets at a level comparable with the business forum and which facilitates the dialogue between politicians and the social partners on industrial relations and social standards .
we have organised the first meeting between european and asian members of parliament here in strasbourg .
so a parliamentary dialogue also means the public at large becoming involved in cooperation in civil society .
the treatment of mrs aung san suu kyi , since we have just talked about the british human rights activist james maudsley , is more than enough evidence that we cannot enter into a dialogue with this regime at this stage .
we would rather go into partnership with taiwan , and it would be nice if the people ' s republic of china and the republic of china could take a leaf out of the book of north and south korea in their attempts at conciliation .
mr president , the forthcoming europe - asia summit in seoul offers a valuable framework for dialogue and the strengthening of political , economic and cultural cooperation between the two participating regions .
this in itself offers a very favourable basis for the gradual development of cooperation between the two regions .
the korean peninsula is a source of continuing strategic instability .
there is no political integration , not even the prospect of political integration , between the asean countries , nor should we forget , as i feel some previous speakers seem to have done , that the governments within asean are all very different : we have totalitarian or dictatorial regimes , even hardline dictatorships like china , alongside democratic countries .
it is not , therefore , surprising that there is , in this context , no real integration or genuine political dialogue .
the european union should perhaps look into the problem and return to good , sound bilateral relations which could be appreciably different according to whether they involved a democracy or a dictatorial or totalitarian regime .
let me remind you , ladies and gentlemen , that in the course of the last five years , somewhere between two and four million people have died of starvation under this idyllic regime .
like mr maaten , i feel we cannot carry on ignoring the question of taiwan for much longer , not just in the process underway between taiwan and the people ' s republic of china , but also within international cooperation schemes , even though i am not one of those people who think that these are very effective .
if there is to be any parliamentary cooperation at all , then it must be with such countries and not with the officials of the communist party of china or other countries in the region .
mr president , i would like to thank the commissioner for his input in this debate and for his sound plans .
however , i would like to focus on the political contacts and comment on two countries in that area , namely burma and indonesia .
ten years ago , a military regime pushed the elected president , mrs aung san suu kyi , out of office , dissolved parliament , drove out , imprisoned and even killed numerous members of parliament , and subsequently applied extreme terror in its treatment of the population and minorities .
the european union has taken a number of measures with regard to burma , but to no avail .
not so long ago , mrs aung san suu kyi was once again restricted in her freedom , a number of key fellow party members were rounded up and western human rights representatives found themselves in hot water in burma .
we continue to hope that the military regime in burma will eventually recognise that the only way forward is by dialogue with aung san suu kyi rather than by confrontation .
yet we have seen recently in both northern ireland and the middle east how fragile these peace initiatives can be .
europe can play an important role as honest broker .
i would like to mention the situation between the people 's republic of china and taiwan .
when the japanese members of parliament come to see us in strasbourg in november , mr president , we will ask them to see if the next meeting between members of the european parliament and members of parliament from the asian countries can , if at all possible , be organised in japan .
mr president , first of all , i would like to thank all the speakers for their contributions to the debate and make some brief comments .
with regard to parliamentary cooperation , i would like to remind you that there have been two meetings : one in the philippines and the other in portugal , on cooperation between young parliamentarians , in which european parliamentarians have also taken part .
with regard to indonesia , which has also been an issue of special interest , there is regular dialogue , within the asem , in which we always insist on the need to promote the democratic process and , to this end , president prodi has already sent a message to the indonesian president so that progress may be made on this point .
our political support for timor is clear and we provide what we consider to be significant humanitarian assistance .
mr president , i simply wish to say that , when i referred to the promotion of the democratic process in indonesia , i clearly meant all the problems relating to human rights and , especially , the issue of the moluccas , which is a subject of particular and constant concern .
during the first trans-european network round , the issue of ports remained unresolved .
it has done that and has also extended the proposal to include not only seaports , but also inland ports and intermodal terminals , including project no 8 of the 14 major projects in essen , which is to be modified .
the council has only accepted certain parts of parliament 's proposals and totally departs from parliament 's criteria for interconnection points .
the council wants a maximum of 1 million tonnes without a connection to other trans-european networks .
the result is that an additional 200 smaller ports would be included .
however , this also means that the council has finally accepted that codecision should also apply to the 14 important essen projects .
i would like to comment on amendment no 15 .
my second point is about the competitive situation not only between ports , but also within a single port .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of my group , i wish to thank the rapporteur for some very thorough work with regard to this important issue .
for example , the proposal to raise the volume in tonnes of freight to 1.5 million in respect of seaports and to change the classification of ports will not , in the opinion of our group , serve the development of the trans-european networks .
smaller , important ports and the union ' s internal passenger traffic must also be taken better account of .
with regard to that element of those ports , if you consider the council ' s viewpoint on ports - and this has been put in more than one way - the quantitative criterion used is , in my opinion , too sweeping and too vague , which results in a situation in which some ports in the german wadden area and some in the netherlands , such as the port of scheveningen , which is a small fishing port , have now been elevated to the status of ports which would be required to play a role in the trans-european network .
this report and these amendments , in fact , deal with a number of very different situations .
rotterdam wants to remain the world ' s largest port and competes with le havre , dunkirk , zeebrugge , antwerp , amsterdam , bremen and hamburg for the same cargo volumes .
the transport situations within the different member states are far from identical .
very often , seaports are the first and last ports of call for cargo in europe .
the link with the hinterland can be made in different ways .
firstly , i must say that i come from a group of islands in the mediterranean - as the rapporteur well knows - and we have the impression that the large ports are being promoted , mainly the northern ports as opposed to the southern ports .
having made these points , which are differences of opinion rather than disagreements , it only remains for me to express our support for this report and to congratulate the rapporteur .
the distance from the port of pasajes , in the basque country , to vlissingen , in holland , is approximately the same whether one travels by sea , road or rail .
a cargo of cars and caravans can easily be transported on a small ship of two thousand tonnes , instead of the 204 lorries or 7 trains with 102 wagons which would be required to transport the same load .
it has already been pointed out by almost all those who have spoken that , in effect , the situation with regard to transport - particularly sea transport - and seaports differs widely throughout our union : the situation in northern countries differs from that in southern countries , in terms of dimensions and the volume of freight and passenger traffic .
parliament wants the criterion to be an annual freight traffic volume of 1.5 million tonnes , but it is ridiculous to ignore the potential of ports with a volume of at least 1 million tonnes , especially if they meet the strategic requirements of the trans-european networks .
we should therefore have faith in market forces and give smaller ports a chance too .
mr president , i would like to thank mr piecyk for his work .
we all agree that the trans-european network must be a multimodal network .
we also believe that we all agree that it must include the main points of connection , and that we consider that the current provisions of the trans-european networks on ports are not satisfactory and that strengthening the role of ports within the network will also serve to consolidate the trans-european networks .
i also believe that parliament and the commission agree that inland terminals are an important part of the network and play a fundamental role in the whole process .
nevertheless , there are certain points on which it will be difficult to make progress , since , while we can make progress between parliament and the commission , we should not forget the fundamental role of the council in this decision-making process .
seaports : amendments nos 5 , 9 and 10 .
this point will certainly be the subject of further debate by the council .
the problem of superstructures excluded from community funding : amendments nos 8 and 10 .
the commission can also support these amendments and it is true that , nevertheless , we believe that this debate may raise some difficulties .
we support the aim of the amendments but , nevertheless , we cannot support their wording .
on the one hand , because we believe it is inappropriate to talk about the funding of these guidelines and , secondly , because we do not believe it is necessary to make this reference .
the debate is closed .
this work resulted in the present proposal .
i should point out that , even in countries in which 15-metre buses are officially allowed , in practice they are refused entry or are sent back at the border .
adaptations of the maximum length of rigid buses will very probably bring about a demand for a similar change in legislation for rigid trucks designed to transport goods , although there may be not an overwhelming demand for such vehicles .
the reason is that buses - both inner-city buses and coaches - often have to operate in narrow streets in city centres during the rush hours , when many other vehicles , motorbikes , bikes , and pedestrians are on the road .
the first makes provision for a transitional period during which the use within national territory of buses which are currently permitted but do not comply with the new requirements of the directive will be allowed .
as regards the other two amendments proposed by the socialists , amendments nos 5 and 7 , calling for derogations of up to two years , i consider the transitional period to be excessive .
two and a half years ago the european commission published a report on the use of 15-metre buses and coaches , in which it referred not only to distortions in competition between transport companies in various eu member states , but also , i am pleased to say , offered prospects of greater safety and improved comfort .
furthermore , it is totally in the spirit of subsidiarity that member states are to be granted a long transitional period , up to 2015 to be precise , during which the use within national territory of buses which are currently permitted but do not yet comply with the new requirements of the directive will be allowed .
i would like to thank the rapporteur and to congratulate him , and i ask you to vote for amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 and 6 .
i would say to mr hatzidakis that the 24 months for industry is less than was allowed in the original 1996 directive when the transitional period was four years .
the pse group does not support amendment no 3 , as the proposed new test does not ensure proper manoeuvrability and does not therefore fully meet acceptable safety requirements .
despite this , my group also has reservations about the proposal , namely with regard to article 1 ( 3a ) .
mr president , commissioner , we are debating the subject of buses and the fact that different practices were applied in a number of european countries with permitted lengths ranging from 12 metres to even 15 metres .
if we consider for a moment the subject of longer buses and the environment , then a situation can arise , as depicted by mrs sanders-ten holte , of cheaper and more efficient transport where small businesses may have greater earnings in this field and make more profit .
three axles , as mrs sanders-ten holte indicated , are not always necessary , but what is necessary is to draft a sound directive .
competition , which is a prime mover in the arena of real development , will begin when transport companies can offer cross-border services .
the present directive is inadequate because it leads to too much diversity with regard to buses in the various member states , which will make the drafting of safety standards difficult .
the commission is pleased that the report points out the need to seek a balance between the commercial aspects and those linked to competition and , at the same time , guarantees technical progress on the one hand and safety on the other .
the aim of the text is clear and has already been mentioned here : to establish a uniform regulation for the dimension of rigid buses in transport services .
the current legislation is very varied , very disparate , and there seems to be a clear need for harmonisation .
in order to fully understand what i am going to say with regard to the commission ' s reaction to the various amendments , it should be made clear that the proposal , in our view , aims to authorise a maximum length of 15 metres throughout the european union , provided that two requirements are complied with : firstly , that buses of between 12 and 15 metres have three axles - an important issue which i will discuss later and which has led to some debate - and , secondly , that buses are manoeuvrable , that is to say , that their manoeuvrability is in accordance with community legislation .
we can understand that there may be a debate on whether all buses are the same or not , but we believe that excess detail in relation to specific solutions would , at the end of the day , be the worst formula .
that is the reason why amendments nos 2 and 4 , which seek to reduce that requirement by establishing that the third axle is only obligatory in the case of buses of more than thirteen and a half or even 15 metres , are not acceptable to the commission .
well , the same conditions that are currently laid down in directive 97 / 27 , which also link this test to manufacturing standards .
amendments nos 5 and 7 are not acceptable to the commission either .
accepting amendment no 6 would also cause certain problems , since we do not consider that it has sufficient technical justification .
the commission considers that that exemption is perhaps excessively restrictive and we could accept the idea that the directive would allow them to stay in use until 2015 .
the debate is closed .
this reunification , made possible by the fall of the berlin wall the year before , was not only of great significance to the germans , but also , to the whole of europe as it symbolised reconciliation between the east and the west after 40 years of cold war .
i would like to express , on behalf of parliament , our shared pleasure with our friends in germany in celebrating this anniversary .
madam president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , you expressed the wish that we should devote our efforts today to the forthcoming european council meeting in biarritz , and this will indeed be an important milestone in this half-year presidency of the council .
the biarritz council of 13 and 14 october will come roughly halfway through our presidency ; so work will already be well underway , without any compromises having been reached , and the time will have come to take stock and put down a marker with a view to the nice european council .
however , the french presidency seems to have attained cruising speed , and would appear to have made completely satisfactory progress on the matters in hand ; i am aware that certain observers have been critical , but they doubtless expected too much from us - and this is flattering , but at the same time does not suit us , since a presidency is always too short - only totalling four productive months , i would remind you - and have forgotten that this presidency , just like any other , is subject to many serious constraints .
certain events which have received ample coverage in the press have thus overshadowed the work done in recent weeks .
i refer in particular to the surge in oil prices - and would point out that the members of the european council will also be discussing this issue - and to the fluctuations in the value of the euro and the referendum in denmark .
i can nevertheless assure you that we will continue in our efforts on the basis of the timetable set and i feel that the required results have been achieved .
i take , by way of example , the latest general affairs council , with an initial agreement on meda ii , the continuing debate on increasing the effectiveness of the union ' s external aid , the message to the serbian people , which can be seen to have carried weight in the current situation , and the first progress report ever on the enlargement process , which we will be discussing again this afternoon , in this chamber .
likewise , the informal council of defence ministers held on 22 september gave reason to hope that completely satisfactory results will be obtained by the end of the presidency as concerns the commitment of capabilities .
not to mention the priorities which we have described as citizens ' priorities , since they lie at the heart of the concerns of all the citizens of europe : growth and employment , their children ' s education - this question was discussed at the education council held this weekend - the future of social protection and transport safety amid new circumstances marked by the surge in oil prices .
as i pointed out during the debate held on 11 july at the invitation of mr napolitano , our concern , right from the outset , has been to restart discussions on a more open basis in order to give ourselves every chance of reaching a satisfactory agreement in nice .
we have therefore been keen , on the one hand , to emphasise the link between the three issues that were left unresolved in amsterdam , which in our mind form a whole , a package , and , on the other hand , to take a long look at the major issue of closer cooperation , within the context of an enlarged europe .
your participation is always very important .
you have not failed to point out how vital it was to mobilise efforts in order for these negotiations to progress and a successful conclusion to be reached within the deadlines set .
the presidency , just like the commission , also firmly emphasised , back at the evian ' gymnich ' , the informal meeting of the foreign affairs ministers , in early september , that there was a real risk of failure at nice , and that france , as the country holding the presidency , would prefer to take responsibility for a failure such as this than for a flawed agreement .
this message seems to have got through , but i seemed to detect , at the general affairs council of 18 september and at the mini-meeting i chaired that evening in brussels , real signs of realisation setting in .
in any case , it would seem impossible for a union with twenty , twenty-five or thirty member states to carry on with the current system without it being reformed .
i nevertheless believe - and this is my personal feeling - that substantial progress will take a little longer .
but it is important for the heads of state and government meeting at the biarritz european council to talk about it .
the commission has put forward highly constructive proposals that will enable us to move forward in a manner which addresses the problems raised by each delegation , and i am very grateful to it .
lastly , as concerns closer cooperation , you will be aware that the problem was , and still is to some extent , that many member states saw in this , a priori , a risk of creating a two-speed europe , or even of it being used as a substitute for real progress involving all 15 member states in the field of qualified majority voting .
we have held several in-depth exchanges of views on this issue at ministerial level , and i believe that these have enabled us to clarify the concept of closer cooperation and to dispel the misgivings of those most sceptical .
the parallel debate on the future of an enlarged europe has in its own way made a both positive , and perhaps occasionally negative , contribution to this .
indeed , since a majority of member states would not seem to be contemplating a radical switch towards any other type of , let us say , much more federal institutional model , one cannot but acknowledge that closer cooperation is a fine tool which provides a response to the realistic observation that , in an enlarged europe , not all the member states will always be able , or want , to move forward at the same rate .
there is , of course , still work to be done , particularly as concerns defining the conditions in which principles could be simplified and the conditions for triggering this mechanism made more flexible , while still preserving a number of guarantees .
lastly , the presidency will examine , in agreement with the member states , the possibility of supplementing article 7 of the treaty on european union , notably on the basis of the proposals already put forward by the member states and by the commission .
as you will be aware , the draft charter was formally adopted by the convention yesterday , on 2 october , with the invaluable and highly effective support of parliament ' s representatives .
the committee on constitutional affairs , represented by its chairman , giorgio napolitano , has nevertheless voiced concern over the future of this draft charter and the possibility of incorporating it into the treaties at the nice european council .
i therefore deduce from this question that parliament , or at least its committee on constitutional affairs , endorses the text produced by the convention , with certain reservations of course , at which i can only express pleasure .
we will doubtless have the chance to discuss that text again in greater depth in the debate on its proclamation by the three institutions scheduled to be take place in this chamber in november .
but , before giving a precise answer to the question from the committee on constitutional affairs , i would like to explain why it is that the work done by the convention would seem to constitute a twofold success .
similarly , it is quite remarkable that the convention has worked both in a manner that is completely transparent , and completely interactively with the citizens via the internet .
from this point of view , the charter is firstly , and this is a sufficiently rare thing in our texts for it to warrant a mention , a clear and well-structured document .
the charter is also cogent .
it enshrines many new rights that correspond to the necessary development in our societies , be they the development of technologies , the appearance of new dependencies , or the complexity of our administrative systems .
lastly , i am sure you will understand my delight at the importance that this text accorded to economic and social rights .
putting on my second , my national , hat , i would say that france has argued strongly for this section to be a substantial one , but i have seen that many other member states desired the same thing , which this presidency can only welcome .
the charter guarantees the right to a free education , the right of workers to be informed and consulted , and the right to collective bargaining and action , including the right to strike , the right of protection against any form of unjustified dismissal , the right to social protection , and the ban on child employment .
moreover , the council is yet to address this matter .
i must nevertheless confirm - at least this is my feeling - that a large majority , if not a very large majority , of member states would still seem to oppose its prompt incorporation , which is , of course , a factor that this presidency has to take into account .
i am thus tempted to answer your question with one of my own : should one take the risk of this text - which as i have said is set to become a milestone - being rejected at biarritz , or should one trust in the potency of this charter , which i am sure will establish itself as a reference for values in the european union and a source of inspiration to the court of justice in luxembourg ?
discussions on the future of the charter are , to my mind , closely akin to discussions on the future of europe .
however , there is still a lot of work to be done before embarking on this new phase .
it would seem to be premature to want to outline a timetable for this at the present juncture , and this could also have adverse effects on the negotiations of the igc .
first of all there is the question of improving institutional administration in a union which has 30 member states .
we are already addressing this issue in the context of the current intergovernmental conference , but we are also clearly aware that we will have to go further , a good deal further , in adapting the community method if we are to preserve its essential features .
i touched on this in connection with closer cooperation .
these are not new issues and , above all , we are well aware of how difficult they are .
however , while we are attempting to resolve our own problems we must spare a thought for our friends and neighbours who are facing decisive challenges .
the commission will work alongside parliament and the council to ensure that the european union produces political action which will enable us to remain protagonists in humanitarian and financial matters .
rigour and objectivity are essential if we are to secure the public support which is vital both in the candidate countries and in those countries which are already members of the union .
there is an urgent need in the member states of the union for a debate which will allow the citizens to grasp the full significance of the remarkable episode of history which is unfolding with the rebuilding of a united europe and , at the same time , to become fully aware of the potential benefits to be gained from creating a market of 500 million consumers .
however , there are equally clear signs in the candidate countries of growing concern over the lack of a clear , binding timetable for accession .
if a treaty of nice implementing all the above projects were to be adopted in december , allowing due time for national ratification procedures , the union could be ready for enlargement at the beginning of 2003 .
the consistency of the acquis communautaire and the uniformity of the judicial framework must be preserved .
these reforms are the minimum changes necessary - and i repeat , the very minimum necessary - before enlargement takes place , to ensure that enlargement does not irreversibly impair the union 's ability to act .
equally important for the future of europe - at biarritz and later at nice - will be the debate on the charter of fundamental rights .
the charter will , in fact , become the reference point both for those countries which are already members of the union and those which are preparing for accession .
looking immediately ahead , beyond biarritz and nice , we have a duty to consider our future .
the future of a newly reunited europe is not carved in stone .
i am heartened by the fact that there now seems to be more of a consensus on the need to address these issues than there was when i first raised them in this very chamber this time last year .
its originality lies without doubt in the commission and its right of initiative .
the commission is the melting pot into which the various national interests and tensions are poured , and from which emerge proposals that seek to reconcile these often conflicting interests .
in this way , it provides not only an analysis and synthesis of the issues under consideration but also a starting point for negotiations in which , once national differences have been expressed , the common european interest can be identified .
this executive body , which combines independence with a sensitivity to the balance of powers and interests of all the member states , both large and small , is crucial for the pooling of sovereignty in the community .
however , the role of the commission is necessary for the integration of europe but is not sufficient on its own .
the value of europe derives from an institutional system in which parliament , council and the court of justice play a role which is equally decisive .
the european system is a system of balances in which the smooth running of each institution serves the common interest .
any weakening of one of these institutions weakens the whole .
the european process can only derive its democratic validity from a dual legitimation : the direct legitimation of the european people , as represented by you , the members of the european parliament , and the legitimation of the member states which , in turn , is based on national democratic elections .
we must put an end , once and for all , to the current paradoxical situation in which even the deliberations of the fifteen justice ministers on such sensitive areas as criminal law and police cooperation escape the scrutiny of parliament and the court of justice . ( applause ) in the recent controversy surrounding the events in austria , the compulsion to resist any racist or authoritarian tendencies - a reaction with which i fully sympathise - ended up creating an artificial distinction between the bilateral action of the member states and the action of the union as a whole .
however , i firmly believe that democracy cannot be a matter for subsidiarity : it must thrive at all levels . ( applause ) furthermore , i cannot help thinking that , when a serious problem arises at union level , it should first be debated before this house , which is the centre and expression of our democracy .
i therefore agree that the time has come to open the debate on the distribution of powers between the union and the member states .
in the area of foreign and security policy , the treaty of amsterdam only provided a temporary response to a lasting need .
while i can assure javier solana of the wholehearted support of the commission - and i admire the extraordinary personal commitment which has enabled him to achieve major , unhoped-for results - i have to stress that the present organisational model is not sustainable in the long term . ( applause ) this model confuses the roles of the council and the commission in a way that could jeopardise both struts of the institutional system and exclude parliament from any effective power .
the current situation should be seen as a transitional phase , useful for launching european action in a new area but destined to be reabsorbed into the conventional institutional structure , as happened in similar cases such as schengen .
the current management of economic policy projects an image of europe as indecisive and muddled .
the simple , natural , effective solution is there , under our noses : the commission , acting on a mandate from the council , should be the voice of the union 's economic policy .
in fact , you only have to read the treaty to realise that , while the central bank is the lynchpin of monetary policy , the body responsible for the overall assessment of the european union 's economic policy can only be the commission .
my second example of the risk of fragmentation is the desire expressed by some member states in the intergovernmental conference to amend the treaty to facilitate the creation of agencies upon which the commission can then confer executive powers .
if i say it once again , it is because i genuinely believe that it has never been more true .
the debate about the future of europe in the perspective of enlargement is a healthy and vital one .
we have built a unique system in which the guarantees of the democratic state governed by the rule of law on which our societies are founded also form the basis for the community .
they must continue to guide any further advances in common action at european level .
many people in the world look , full of hope , to our european model and its successes for inspiration .
i would also like to thank mr moscovici for his careful , thorough response to the oral question which i tabled on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs .
secondly , due consideration must certainly be given to the argument of timing - i am familiar with it , minister , and it is a very strong argument - namely the fact that there has not yet been enough time for the issue to be fully explored and that the majority of the member states are currently opposed to the idea .
it is also true that we must have faith - and many of us do - in the power of the charter as such and in its capacity to inspire the decisions of the luxembourg court , but what we are trying to say , mr moscovici , is that the issue of whether and how to incorporate the charter into the treaties cannot be avoided .
to sum up , what we want is to open a discussion on the matter in biarritz and to continue until nice , so that , at nice and even after nice , we will then be able to outline the practical steps to be taken once the intergovernmental conference is over . ( applause ) madam president , mr president of the commission , mr president-in-office , ladies and gentlemen , today we are looking into the future of the european union and we are therefore debating the future of europe .
we declare our solidarity with the elected president vojislav kostunica and all democrats in serbia .
parliament - in any case my group - will stand resolutely at your side if you continue to defend these principles in the future . ( applause ) and now we look towards biarritz .
of course we need to apply the principle of democracy in practice .
this means that the majority of the population must be reflected in a majority vote .
i would also ask , however , that we respect the rights of small countries in the european union and avoid any arrogance on the part of large countries in the european union .
the small countries have their dignity too , and perhaps the outcome of the vote in denmark would have been different if we had behaved differently in connection with one quite specific issue in recent weeks and months . ( applause ) we say yes to closer cooperation .
but this closer cooperation must not exclude anyone .
and it is then for the nation states to determine what should be decided at regional or district level .
we wholeheartedly support what you said in this regard , mr president of the commission .
our group should like to thank roman herzog and for our parliament inigo mendez de vigo , as well as all colleagues from all the groups who have participated in this .
but i expect and hope that you will also find the right way gradually to make these fundamental rights european union law .
this law is the foundation stone for peace in europe .
like the majority of the council , you belong to the political family of francois mitterrand .
and if you do then our family of parties - which was founded on the legacy of konrad adenauer , alcide de gasperi and robert schuman - will also be at your side when it comes to building a common europe .
the biarritz summit is about to take place and i must say , on behalf of my group and of my political family , the party of european socialists , that we consider the work carried out by the convention on the charter of fundamental rights to be a success in terms of what it has achieved and also in terms of the method it has used .
madam president , i believe that the charter currently sends an important message to our citizens and also to the candidate countries .
in relation to the debate on enlargement to follow , my group believes that it is important for us to send a positive message to these countries .
when producing a resolution of 120 sections , the first thing we have to say is that we want the whole of the enlargement process to be carried out in a clear and transparent way , dealing with its needs , but at a sustained pace .
it is important that this parliament sends the message that it is essential to set the timetable at the european council in nice , which needs to be successful .
i really do not understand - i am now addressing the president-in-office of the council - why , when for once we have done something really good and which we are all pleased with , we are going to put the charter on the back burner after nice .
i am not asking for it to be included directly in the treaties but , while we are discussing articles 6 and 7 , we must affirm our community of values .
it is very difficult to explain to our voters that we have done a good job , which we are all very pleased about , but that we are going to put it off until a later date .
i believe that the council and the governments must give serious consideration to what must be the frontispiece to our union .
and that is the charter of fundamental rights .
secondly , with regard to the method , we have not discovered the philosopher ' s stone , but we have realised that this method is democratic , because it is public , transparent , and is allowing the citizens and civil society to follow what we are doing in real time .
the truth is that , after listening to the report of the president-in-office of the council on the development of the intergovernmental conference - he has said it with the discretion and elegance worthy of the presidency , especially if it is french , but he has said that we are in a situation of total stalemate , and has used the term ' paradox ' - i ask myself : could we not apply the convention method to the intergovernmental conferences ? ( applause ) that is a very fundamental question which would resolve many of our problems .
because in the intergovernmental conferences - and we all know this from what they tell us and we have two representatives who are showing great patience - the representatives are limited to following instructions so that the leaders , at the end , simply negotiate during the last five minutes , which produces the type of treaties which we have , which are completely incomprehensible , even to the initiated . ( applause ) i therefore believe that there is a second message which we must direct at our governments when they meet in biarritz and in nice , and that is that the next intergovernmental conference , even this one , could be replaced with the convention method .
thirdly , in relation to the president of the commission ' s comments on the future , i agree on one basic idea : at a time when , unfortunately , there is a debate in which there is talk of a constitution , of federalism , in which we have our heads of state - tomorrow we will have president ciampi - making grandiose claims for the future of europe , i must say that the heads of state and government say many things in favour of europe in public which they appear to resolve in private .
mr president of the commission , it is true that we have to construct for the future on the basis of the present .
we completely agree on this and also on the fact that we have to try to take advantage of that triangle .
i believe that president prodi has understood this , because , if i am not mistaken , he was at the amsterdam summit where the high representative for external policy was created .
now i see that he is arguing for a progressive integration of something which parliament , at that time , argued for before amsterdam .
we are surely heading for a creative crisis in the union .
i believe that , if there is a clear will to resolve the problems , while thinking of our citizens , transparently and publicly , according to community methods , we will finally end up doing something which was asked of us in this very house by a leader with enormous moral authority : president havel told us that we needed a clear constitution which we could explain to our children .
i believe that that can finally help us to guide the future of europe . ( applause ) madam president , mr prodi , this morning has been your finest hour since you took over the leadership of the european commission .
madam president , just for once i would like to begin by thanking the two speakers , both the president-in-office of the council and the president of the commission , for the quality of their interventions .
other speakers have already made the point that we must be mindful of the fact that throughout the european union there is a crisis of confidence in the european institutions .
this crisis of confidence has made itself felt itself in denmark in particular and , even if the result of the vote there can be interpreted in different ways , there can be no doubt that a section of the danish electorate wanted to indicate a certain lack of confidence in the european union , not least in its ineffectiveness and lack of political will in terms of social matters , environmental protection and democratic transparency .
the setting up of the convention represented a major step towards a more democratic europe , insofar as the process breaks with the intergovernmental approach .
i believe that deferring the issue would be the worst possible option , both for the citizens of europe and for the citizens of the candidate countries .
but the way forward certainly does not lie in the centralisation of powers in the hands of the commission .
in my view , it is the institutional system as a whole , including the commission , that should be transformed , and the new factor that must lie at the heart of these changes are the operators that form part of the social movement , the citizens , those people who were notably absent from your speech .
in short , we need politics in the true sense of the word , since it is on this that the future of europe hinges .
madam president , the decision of the danish people on 28 september on participation in the european currency regime will undoubtedly figure at the biarritz european council meeting .
eu member state governments must now seriously reflect on what has happened in denmark .
the danish decision comes two months before eu leaders are to meet in nice to reform existing eu treaties and policies .
it will help consolidate democratic and civil structures in eastern and central europe , expand market economies and help build a european continent at peace with itself .
however , eu member state governments face difficult choices .
we cannot deny that the danish people used the recent referendum as a test of confidence in the structures of the european union .
the referendum in denmark had more to do with the direction of the european union and future political integration than actually participating in the euro currency itself .
however , the point remains the same : namely that the european member state governments , the european commission and the european parliament have a serious battle on their hands to persuade the 370 million citizens of the european union that greater political and economic integration is the way forward for the european union .
mr president , mr prodi , mr moscovici , it is precisely the charter of fundamental rights that will , at biarritz , provide the solutions to institutional problems .
granted , this text may seem commonplace at first sight , but it takes on great meaning in the light of topical events .
we need a sense of perspective , a sense of the proportionality set out in article 48 of the charter , before voicing off from our own standpoint as relatively well off in human rights terms .
let us not violate it before it is even applied .
mr president , judging by what i have heard recently , one could be forgiven for believing that nothing of any great importance happened on 28 september .
this right to difference and to respect is what must underpin any debate on institutional affairs , particularly at biarritz .
unfortunately , this would seem to be the path that the intergovernmental conference wants to follow , by focusing on the extension of qualified majority voting .
let us therefore take advantage of the current discussions within the igc to redefine , at last , a system that has reached its limits .
the current desire to extend qualified majority voting will not bring europe closer to the citizens .
the northern part under french rule has no official recognition whatsoever , despite the clear will of two thirds of the citizens and elected representatives to have a basque departement of its own .
mr president , i wish firstly , as other previous speakers have done , to congratulate president prodi on his speech .
the applause that rounded it off clearly demonstrates that when there is a specific political objective , this parliament can be relied upon to support it .
because he acknowledged something which we are all satisfied with .
mr moscovici has said so very expressively .
the content of the charter is good .
previous speakers have spoken well of the charter because it is a good charter which brings together the classic rights of the nineteenth century and the modern rights of the twenty-first century .
it is a charter for the citizens , who have participated actively in its creation .
the argument of the president-in-office of the council is that there is a risk that the charter will not be accepted by all the member states as legally binding .
but i believe things are changing , mr moscovici .
there are some - the spanish government has said this very clearly recently - who are in favour of incorporating the charter into the treaties .
however , even if what you say is true , and there are some governments who do not want it incorporated into the treaties , i must say very clearly that the citizens of europe and the members of this parliament have the right to know who those governments are .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , the president of the commission has just told us that in matters of democracy there is no room for subsidiarity .
this charter is primarily a charter for the inhabitants of the european union , and i believe that it is also a charter for all those who want to join that union .
i believe that a solution has now been found to this problem .
this charter should form part of the acquis communautaire .
i believe that , as faithful servants of this parliament , we used the mandate , all the mandate but not just the mandate , and i cannot but welcome this .
i also feel , however , that it includes some major advances , and that also means in relation to current texts .
they appear in the chapter on liberty , and in the chapter on equality , and quite rightly so , because this is a good way of promoting these economic and social rights .
as many people have already said , it is one that presupposes that the draft charter currently on the table will remain intact , or that the convention will be asked to rework it .
let me remind you that we have not attempted to launch such an original process since the assizes in rome .
but the difference is that this time around , in my opinion , the method has worked perfectly .
it has not prevented the heads of states and government from giving their own instructions , and from having their representatives work together , but they have been doing so in a transparent manner , under the watchful eye of all the partners who , beginning with parliament , have shown the extent to which they are able , in a process of this type , to perform their duties with a will to working towards and bringing about a result that is of value to everyone .
much has already been said about this and , mr president-in-office of the council , you have just described the extent to which the intergovernmental conference has been involved in amending article 7 .
finally , it should request the commission to launch a widespread campaign to inform the public of this great project .
can you even proclaim rights in earnest without enshrining them in law ?
each article of this charter is already enshrined in international conventions , in the constitutions of the member states , in international law or in eu treaties and protocols .
mr president , i have to say that it was certainly a moving moment yesterday when the convention was able to adopt the draft charter in brussels .
the charter of fundamental rights is indeed an important political project for the future of the european union .
it makes the rights of the public in respect of the bodies and institutions of the european union transparent , and it closes a loophole in the protection of people 's fundamental rights .
we are seeking in vain to establish a right to a fair remuneration , despite the fact that this has been established by all states in the 1961 social charter .
on the other hand , i do also recognise the strengths of the charter .
the level of protection of the public 's fundamental rights will match that in the european convention on human rights and will even guarantee a greater level of protection .
for example , i could imagine a referendum being held in all our countries in 2004 alongside the european elections to ask the people whether the charter should become an integral part of the treaties .
mr president , in the referendum on the euro last week the danes said no to the europe of integration , no to the europe of the super-state , and yes to a europe of diversities , yes to a europe that respects national democracies .
the biarritz council and , three months hence , the nice council , which are to discuss the european institutions , must draw a significant conclusion from this .
the response to enlargement is not increased supra-nationality , or an increase in powers , seated in brussels , that are binding on all the member states of the union or even just on certain states that have joined together to form a hard core .
my compatriots voted for the single currency in 1992 because they had been told that this could work without a super-state .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , as president prodi will remember , the italian radicals voted against his appointment last year .
you have highlighted - and i applaud you for this - all the shortcomings of the process of european integration which have hitherto come to light and the implications for nice if the method and spirit which , sadly , have pervaded recent intergovernmental conferences continue to prevail .
president prodi , as other speakers have already said , the commission needs to firmly reassert its role as the driving force behind european integration , and today , you have set down the broad guidelines for this .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , the questions which mr napolitano asked the council and commission on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs bear witness to a view of the charter , which , unfortunately , our group is unable to share .
it is quite unnecessary for this charter to be established when it comes to stepping up the protection of fundamental rights in europe .
this is also the view of experts in the field of european constitutional law .
a legally binding charter is not only unnecessary , it even threatens to harm the enforcement of the fundamental rights .
as a group for a europe of democracies and diversities , we hope , however , that such a federal state will never see the light of day .
i see three benefits in it .
the first has been the method selected , that of the convention , which took the form of a judicious blend involving the competent representatives at national and european level , even if there was an extra guest at the table , as commissioner vitorino underlined .
the three musketeers were in fact four , but they have indeed enabled a method to be set in place that we should turn to in the future to move matters forward within the european union .
the second benefit has been the work carried on by the committee .
the quality of those who have spoken before me makes it unnecessary to linger on this point , but it is true that there is a real added value .
the first responsibility concerns our comments .
the second responsibility is that of adopting the charter .
lastly , the third responsibility is to follow up on this charter , and we must show tenacity in this regard .
we have voted , by a very large majority , for a resolution that calls for this charter to be incorporated into the treaties .
the end result is therefore a text that will be of great value within europe , as many people have stressed .
lastly , with regard to the world outside europe , i believe that human rights are the true message to come out of europe .
however , today , the charter is essentially a symbol , the symbol of the passage from the europe of the single market to the political europe , from the europe of states to the europe of the citizens .
the debilitating semi-secret or confidential negotiations which characterise the intergovernmental method do not produce the same results .
now , this symbolic document is a milestone in the process of constitutionalising the european union - for , in my opinion , the union ' s constitution will not come into being in a single document all in one go , but will be the result of the gradual consolidation of the common institutions and the definition of shared fundamental rules - and it must become practically enforceable law .
in the member states , we are all waiting for the council of ministers to show the political courage and will really to reform current cooperation .
the eu will never be ready , but the candidate countries must participate actively in future discussions .
the convention method is perhaps more suitable than these intergovernmental conferences we have had in the past .
it is quite true that it is an improvement on an intergovernmental conference , but - take note , ladies and gentlemen - even the convention was forced to achieve consensus on every single word and , in the end , particularly during the concluding phase , it turned into a sort of intergovernmental conference ii : our praesidium had to negotiate with the member states instead of , or as well as , members of parliament .
many european citizens are questioning the point reached by the union , its objectives and even the logic of integration .
we say that there is a crisis of confidence with regard to the institutions , and i feel that this crisis is due in particular to the disparity between the expectations of society and the ability to live up to them .
following on from what my fellow member , mr wurtz , has said , i would like to stress the extent to which the vital reform of the institutions should address the issue of making the union more democratic .
europe is in danger of being defeated by compromises , not crises .
these are two different results which , however , i feel are closely related and herald new times .
on the other hand , the result , which we fully respect , may be an indication that the citizens do not yet feel in tune with the european ideal .
the problem may well be a general one .
the internal borders of today and the single currency of tomorrow are certainly useful , necessary symbols which will affect citizens ' everyday lives in a practical way and contribute to reinforcing the european ideal , but they will not fulfil the citizens ' call for greater heed to be paid to their views and for greater representation of their interests and , above all , of their hopes for the future .
as we know , the objectives set at the current intergovernmental conference do not meet this demand fully , although the reform of the weighting of votes and the extension of qualified majority voting are steps in this direction .
for a long time now , we have been talking about a post-nice period during which institutions and operating procedures need to be reformed more effectively , also and especially with a view to enlargement .
the convention was a europe-wide success in terms of the formula adopted , the significant results achieved within the time allowed and the sense of accountability shown by all the participants .
mr president , i too am proud of the text of the charter which is being submitted to the biarritz council .
i have argued strongly in favour of including social , economic and cultural rights alongside the traditional fundamental rights .
commissioner vitorino knows exactly what i am referring to .
naturally , the charter must be incorporated into the treaty and it should form the basis of a european constitution in future .
but some member states need slightly more time to get used to the idea .
i think it is a realistic timetable to propose a project for the future of europe under that presidency , and the charter will have a role to play in this .
mr president , mr president of the commission , mr president-in-office of the council , ladies and gentlemen , this is an important passage in the history of europe , in the history of the world as well as of the union .
the drawing-up and approval of the charter of fundamental rights , together with an intergovernmental conference which may lead to decisive changes and enlargement are historic events which may leave their mark on the start of this new century .
the dilemma in the hearts of a great many citizens who want a political europe , not just a great trading entity , is this : if the intergovernmental conference fails to produce the desired reforms , should we still proceed with enlargement ?
we must allow everyone to follow his own political project in the union , in a harmony of differences which , after all , has already proved to be a winning solution in the history of the european union .
it adds nothing over and above what is at present implied in the eu ' s , the member states ' and the council of europe ' s policy in this area .
the charter can therefore only be seen as an attempt to transfer responsibility for citizens ' rights from the institutions in which they at present reside to the european union .
it is aimed only at driving the eu towards a federal constitution .
mr president , the result of the danish referendum ought to be understood free from false interpretations .
it is not a sign that a majority of danes are saying ' no ' to european cooperation or that the danes are not carefully informed about the ins and outs and development plans of the european union .
a majority of danes have said ' no ' , as they did in 1992 and 1993 , to more european integration , ' no ' to surrendering more sovereignty and ' no ' to the tools which serve these purposes , that is to say the euro , majority decision-making and a european constitution .
what i would also call for , however , is to look beyond immediate concerns in biarritz .
we know all too well that the present treaties are inadequate and that the union will need a better and different structure in future , a more constitutional structure which clearly distinguishes the powers of the member states and those of the union .
i would first of all like to thank mr roman herzog and mr inigo mendez de vigo for their sterling work and for the way compromises were struck time and again .
mr president , i would like to end by making a final remark on professor prodi ' s cry from the heart .
our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium .
it offers an important message to our citizens and to surrounding countries about the constitutional principles upon which our countries are founded .
our european identity and community of values will be strengthened .
this individual protection is an important basis for enlargement of the union - the eu ' s priority for the next few years .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , rarely can a presidency of the european union have been so burdened with challenges and chock-full of events .
these challenges are , in essence , the intergovernmental conference and the preparation for enlargement , which are of course interconnected .
the events are the problems currently being experienced by the euro , the surge in oil prices and , on a different level , the hopes for a transition towards democracy in yugoslavia .
these are , first and foremost , messages of concern at the economic and social problems that we are experiencing , in spite of a period of sustained growth stemming from years of efforts by all our fellow citizens .
these are , as we know , very tricky negotiations and raise fears of a setback or a watered-down agreement in nice which , as you have already acknowledged , mr moscovici , would be even more serious .
mr president , mr president of the commission , mr president-in-office , ladies and gentlemen , in experiencing the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights in the european parliament we are seeing history in the making .
the completion of this work is an important milestone in the history of the european union , particularly for the people who live there .
the intergovernmental conference - to address a third subject - on the reform of the european institutions is also of decisive significance for us in parliament .
provision for social , cultural and charitable causes must be included in article 87 so that the future of these important institutions can also be permanently safeguarded .
we have to pay particular attention to relations between the people and the union ' s institutions .
despite the demands made here today in this house , it would appear that the charter is not going to be made legally binding , but is merely to be a political declaration .
an agreement on procedures in itself is a good thing , but we must make sure that the system cannot be used as a political weapon .
the drafting of a european charter of fundamental rights is an important and necessary step towards a europe which is close to the people .
some people think that it is possible to create an internal market in europe without agreeing on fundamental values and principles .
the majority of the european parliament has never supported this view .
for example , with the directive on patenting biotechnological inventions - which was , of course , supposed to be primarily an internal market directive - we did not allow this directive to be adopted without fundamental ethical principles being enshrined in it , and without particular techniques which offend against human dignity being prohibited from patenting .
where modern genetic engineering is concerned , in particular , this was an important step towards establishing common values in europe .
the charter is a further - certainly much more important - step .
but the draft is worth improving precisely in respect of the protection of human dignity and the protection against its abuse by modern technologies .
the wording is imprecise in some places , and i am particularly concerned that article 3 of the draft charter only prohibits the reproductive cloning of human beings .
commissioner busquin very kindly assured me of this once again in a letter this week , and that is why it is dangerous for us now to be weaker in the charter than in existing european union legislation .
secondly , it lies in its transparency for the public , who now know what rights they have in respect of those who create and apply european law , and in its transparency for those who do precisely that , draft or apply european law .
the charter therefore guarantees a greater level of protection than the european convention on human rights - this needs to be said to all those who are asserting the opposite here in the plenary - and it formulates political and social rights in a balanced way .
it is the first declaration of human rights of the new millennium and the most modern charter of human rights available anywhere in the world .
i have of course noted - and this is cause for great satisfaction - that the european parliament is almost unanimously content with the charter .
that lends great weight to this text , and to the european council as concerns furthering the charter .
i agree with him on the need to maintain the institutional balance and enhance the role , in political terms , of both the commission and the council .
i agree with him that the commission must continue to play a pivotal role as guardian of the common interests of the community .
there are certain areas in which the sovereignty of the member states could not be called into question without this conflicting with the spirit of european integration .
the first concerns the common foreign and security policy , and the suggestion to integrate the high representative for cfsp into the commission .
perhaps one day we will have to abolish this function , but that day has not yet come .
the second slight difference concerns the euro .
the recent fluctuations in this currency have revealed the need for a more political style of governance , of management .
for all that , we should not , i feel , steer clear of strong intergovernmental cooperation , cooperation in respect of economic policies , when seeking solutions .
that is why i believe it is very important for the chairman of the eurogroup - which we chose to set up - to continue to play a full role in this area .
but we must reach agreement on what to put in this constitution .
he was quite right to emphasise the distance we have travelled since the fall of the wall and the reunification of germany ten years ago .
i hope now that democracy has gained a foothold in serbia .
mr baron crespo emphasised that the charter was a fine document and one to be proud of .
i believe that we must not forget , quite simply , that some member states - it is not my job to name them - have already had to overcome considerable resistance and reluctance in getting this text accepted , which is why i am being , if not prudent , then at least patient , as i believe is necessary .
i could mention , for example , the social agenda which is a priority for us , or the setting in place of something that i would not call an economic government , but economic governance , to address these problems .
i will end by saying let there be no doubt but that the french presidency intends to give the european parliament all the attention it deserves , and that i will be in this chamber on 24 october to report on biarritz .
i would add that we want to work in the complete transparency you desire , and to carry on with the regular exchanges that we have held with you since july .
i delivered this speech today because i can see that the hazards which have combined in recent months to threaten europe have aroused in us a common determination with the potential to produce tangible results in the future .
however , we cannot stop here : in addition to making the solemn political proclamation of the charter , we need to assume a clear position regarding its incorporation into the treaty of the union .
i therefore hope that the nice european council will associate itself with this project and decide to launch it as a practical project rather than an accomplished fact once , of course , the reforms of which we are currently in need have been adopted .
i have therefore defined not only the major role of the commission but the roles of all the institutions and i have also stressed - and i reiterate this once again because it is even more important - the need to mobilise the people and their consciences .
i have been coherent and firm in my intentions but also realistic , outlining the stages of what can be achieved today and what must wait until tomorrow .
i certainly do not want to go overboard on this point , but i was pleased to note that in the sydney olympics , the first dope-free olympics - i am informed - and therefore olympics which we can define in the spirit of de coubertin , the 15 countries of the union won 239 medals and the united states of america only 97 .
the debate is closed .
we do not want researchers to suffer because of there being insufficient regard for human rights in chechnya , and i would ask that we send out a signal here , a signal of openness towards russia and openness towards cooperation .
only if we bind russia to the west and to the european union will we also be able to bring an influence to bear on its policies and remain in contact and in discussion with russia .
amendments nos 10 , 11 and 15 are acceptable in principle .
he is currently continuing this genocide and moreover he is also trying to completely eliminate the freedom of the media and the rule of law in russia , which , as it is , barely exist . . ( it ) i abstained in the vote on the proposal for a decision concluding the agreement between the european community and the government of the russian federation because the proposal fails to deal with the extremely important area of cooperation over the removal of antipersonnel mines and the conversion of the firms which produce them .
this is a particularly important point , also in view of past dealings between russian and italian firms , such as , for example , those directed by the former senator claudio regis , a well-known manufacturer of criminal devices such as these .
it is , however , essential for the procedures for drawing up these national accounts , both in the transactions described and the institutional sectors summarised , to be identical from one country to the next .
in the case in point , the amendment of the 1996 council regulation before us , the commission proposes to register taxes and contributions by taking account primarily of the revenue actually collected , rather than the tax calculated as due on the basis of the taxable event .
the commission also proposes to apply a coefficient to the ' non collectable ' percentage in order to avoid understating the true level of deficit , compared with the maastricht requirements .
piecyk recommendation for second reading ( a5-0232 / 2000 ) mr president , before i left for strasbourg to come to this part-session , a pensioner from cremona , a town in the po valley on the river po , asked me to tell him when it would at last be possible to sail on the po .
in order to do something to meet the expectations of this pensioner , who is called giuseppe italia , lives in cremona and would love to be able to sail on the po , i voted for the piecyk report , which concerns the expansion and development of sea and inland ports and intermodal terminals .
we did not , consequently , vote in favour of this report . . ( fr ) our report discusses a proposal amending council directive 96 / 53 / ec with a view to authorising buses with a length of 15 metres for circulation within the european union .
in that sense one can say that this proposal formalises an existing situation .
a 15-metre bus can take some 67 passengers , i.e. 16 more than a 12-metre bus .
it is therefore entirely justifiable that a number of eu member states only permit buses up to 12 metres .
mr president , i voted for the skinner report , as i explained during the debate before the vote , because i feel that risk capital is important .
the heads of state and government therefore agreed a number of measures to promote the development of risk capital in the european union , with a deadline for implementing the risk capital action plan of 2003 .
the commission communication is an acknowledgement that concrete measures need to be taken to create a genuinely european and highly liquid risk capital market in the eu .
in reality , they often have more in common with gamblers who hope to tap into goldmines .
resolution " charter on fundamental rights " ( b5-0767 / 2000 ) mr president , on behalf of my group i want to state that the implementation of a new eu charter of fundamental rights will certainly raise the status and visibility of human rights in the european union .
it is stated in article 6 of the treaty of amsterdam that fundamental rights exist within the union and must be respected .
citizens from the candidate countries in central and eastern europe can also draw inspiration from such a charter .
however , we should recall that the european convention on human rights , which all member states have signed and adopted in their national law , has now been operating for nearly 50 years and works hand in hand with the un declaration on human rights .
the citizens from member states of the countries of the echr have confidence in this convention and jurisprudence has built up around it .
our primary concern with regard to the charter of fundamental rights is that it must not conflict with the european convention .
the most difficult problem facing this new charter is not its actual content but whether it has legal status .
a binding and all-embracing charter with completely legally enforceable rights could result in difficulties at a later stage .
this is not , however , the case for basic rights such as the right of all employees to strike or join unions .
it is important that the charter addresses three audiences .
firstly , it addresses our citizens and tells them that this is not a europe that simply does things to them but does things for them and respects their rights in carrying out its activities .
i hope that the heads of government and the heads of state meeting in biarritz will take this seriously and consider making it a binding document but if not , at the very least , ensure at nice that it becomes a declaration annexed to the treaty of the european union .
mr president , i voted in favour of this charter , not least because of the influence which our colleague , ingo friedrich , and professor herzog have exerted on its content .
but it has to be said that this charter is a step in the right direction .
hence our " yes " in the hope that this is only a first step and that improvements can be made in the next few years .
mr president , i abstained from the vote on the resolution on the charter of fundamental rights of the european union because i consider that this charter is still extremely unsatisfactory , despite some progress .
if , as i hope , this article becomes part of the treaty of nice , the elderly will at last be protected by a constitutional charter of fundamental rights .
we are pleased to note that the convention has succeeded in producing a draft charter .
we believe that , as a political document , the charter is a good point of departure for this wholly necessary dialogue , which is now about to begin .
we do not , however , believe that the latter can be concluded in nice in less than three months , for which reason alone we cannot vote in favour of incorporating the charter into the treaty at the nice summit . . ( fr ) scarcely has the ' body ' entrusted by the cologne council with the task of drafting the charter of fundamental rights completed its work than all the federalists , particularly in this house , go into collective raptures about the results .
as a member of the european parliament delegation to this body , having worked , together with my fellow members , on the matter for eight months , i must say that the charter of fundamental rights could well , in fact , have represented an added value for europe but that , as things stand at present , we can derive no satisfaction from either its content or the working methods which governed its drafting .
as i stated in the proposal i submitted to the praesidium of the body , from the start of the work , peoples ' rights are already adequately protected in europe , both by the national legal systems and by the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms , which is an extension of these .
a text of this type would be extremely useful , not just in re-establishing the true meaning of democracy , but also in making the institutions ready for the future enlarged europe .
we cannot conceive of a political declaration at the european level which does not make any mention of the key role of the national democracies , the rights they enshrine , nor of the implications for european institutions .
the convention was thus a muddled system , generating irresponsibility , and not particularly favourable to well-ordered democracy .
the final adoption of the draft charter intended for submission to the council , on 2 october this year , represented a monumental work of ambiguity , since apparently a number of members agreed on condition that it was a political declaration , whereas others agreed on condition that it was a binding text , and they skirted around this critical divergence in the same way that they skirted around the existence of an opposition to which i myself belonged .
president roman herzog was therefore able to officially convey the final draft to the french presidency in readiness for the biarritz summit .
the european parliament will give its opinion on this text at a later date by giving their formal assent .
we already expressed this desire when we voted on the last resolution on this subject on 16 march 2000 .
that is why i voted in favour of this resolution and supported the amendment tabled by the chairwoman of the french socialist delegation , pervenche beres , urging the biarritz summit to ask the igc to examine all the ways in which the charter might be incorporated into the treaty , as a preamble , protocol or a reference to the charter enshrined in article 6 , which stipulates that the european union is based on the principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms , as well as on the notion of the rule of law .
that would be an interim solution which would make it possible to work towards a binding charter in the long term .
i am thinking of the inclusion of such rights as the right to strike , the right to work , the implicit reference to european trade unions , the entitlement to housing allowance .
certainly , the content of this charter must be improved .
the charter aims to provide comprehensive protection of people 's fundamental rights and different sections go completely or partly beyond the jurisdiction of the eu .
we reject the fundamental rights included in the charter which are appropriate but which do not justify granting the eu corresponding powers or conferring on it a duty to protect or act .
the csu 's europe group supports the horizontal provision which makes it clear that no new powers are being established for the community or the union .
this charter lags some way behind the european convention on human rights , and behind national conventions or treaties .
on subjects as basic as women ' s rights , immigrants ' rights , the right to education , the right to accommodation , the right to employment or a decent wage , this charter is often inadequate and occasionally retrogressive .
because social rights are fundamental rights for a europe that respects democratic and social rights and freedoms , we champion the idea of another charter to protect workers , women , foreigners , those excluded from society , national minorities .
because we think that the process of european integration warrants a genuine democratic public debate , there can be no political construction of europe without social rights or democracy .
this is why i did not vote in favour of this draft charter .
i shall be voting for an alternative charter by participating in the demonstrations in biarritz on 13 and 14 october and in nice on 7 december 2000 . . ( it ) we are aware that the process of institutionalising the union also requires definition of the concept of european citizenship and the institution of common values such as freedom , governability and stability .
yet we are somewhat perplexed by the combined effect which would be produced by the charter having binding authority over the community countries , as the european parliament requested on 26 march of this year , and the as yet incomplete and inorganic content of even the last draft presented , despite the commendable amount of work put in .
i would indeed have like to have seen a moratorium on this charter to enable work to continue on it , as a great many non-governmental organisations in the various countries of the european union have proposed .
on many points this charter lags behind the advances made regarding rights and freedoms in france and in other european union countries , and many international texts .
i believe that it has become clear to all of us , following president prodi 's excellent speech , that the european union 's ability to reform and success in nice are essential prerequisites for the european union to move forward quickly .
we think that decisions need to be made in nice on those issues which are necessary for enlargement , even if this means not addressing all those issues which remain to be resolved - and which it is desirable that we resolve - in connection with reforming the european union .
this report needs to be viewed in a similar light .
in this report too , which i am presenting to you , there are a number of points which it is desirable that we in the european union - but also the accession countries - address , but not all of them are conditions for accession to the european union , because the conditions for accession to the european union are clearly set out in the copenhagen criteria .
the european parliament would nevertheless like to say that accession to the european union is conditional upon the copenhagen criteria being satisfied in full .
it must be clear that all of these conditions have to be met .
furthermore , it must also be clear that democracy and the rule of law are in fact the condition for negotiating and that other conditions simply have to be satisfied in the course of the negotiations , and here we do of course realise that - in the interests of the accession applicants as well as in the interests of the european union - we will have to agree transitional arrangements in a series of sectors , as we have always done with accessions .
that is why it is also wrong at the present time to mention the names of countries which look today as though they are in a position to fulfil the requirements , because for internal political reasons a country which is in a good position today might fall back again next year , or vice versa .
that is why i should like to propose to you that from next year we in parliament no longer present a general report at all but only country reports , to make it clear that we wish to see the negotiations proceed at differentiated paces .
i think that this is a good proposal which should be supported , and an equally good proposal is that from the european people 's party stating that if possible the first countries should be able to participate in the european parliament elections in 2004 .
i am convinced that some countries will be in a position to prepare themselves adequately within that time .
when i consider that it is already eleven years since the revolution in central and eastern europe then we must also give these people the prospect of the process of change bearing fruit at some point .
i think therefore that holding out the prospect of accession to the people is essential , so as to encourage these countries to develop the enduring strength to push through political and economic reforms of the necessary magnitude .
the political , economic and security policy stability which the enlargement of the european union will bring is something which i certainly do not need to mention .
on the other hand - and people hardly dare to say this - in recent years our balance of trade surplus with the accession countries has been greater than the public aid which we have granted these countries .
we have the opportunity to create a new order in which no one loses their identity and whose wealth is derived from the diversity of its people .
we will also be able to fashion an order in which war between us becomes impossible , in which people are able to discover each other in their common humanity and in which we can combine our strengths to represent our interests in the world , that is to fight for our common cause as europeans in the world .
i feel , then , that on the basis of the work undertaken by previous presidencies and by the commission , the french presidency will be in a position , or so i hope , at least , to offer a quite precise overview of the accession process at the european council in nice .
i therefore propose , in order to make a useful contribution to this debate , to tell you quite specifically what the french presidency is doing during these six months to achieve the results i have just mentioned .
with this in mind , let me firstly remind you that we plan to organise for each candidate country two negotiation meetings for alternate members and one at ministerial level , split into two phases , on 21 november and 5 december , back-to-back with the meetings of the general affairs council .
the french presidency will immediately inform the committee which you chair , mr brok , of the result of these negotiations , come tuesday afternoon , according to the tradition that has developed between us .
this means , then , that each candidacy must be assessed and shall be assessed , in short , on its own merits .
that is why , just like the european parliament , the french presidency wished to have access to the tracking schedules for monitoring adoption of the acquis , updated regularly , it being understood that the basic principle of the negotiations must continue to be the wholesale adoption of the acquis .
as you know , the candidates have expressed a number of requests to this effect .
this , moreover , is a sign that the accession negotiations have clearly entered a new phase and that henceforth , as the french presidency wishes , we should go into substantive discussions .
in this respect , i should like to point out that the council has , on the basis of an initial document from the commission , initiated a consultation process which should enable the european union to make progress in the negotiations .
i am , of course , thinking of the common agricultural policy and the regional development policies .
by the end of our presidency , half of the chapters of the acquis will have been opened to negotiation .
obviously the work carried out by each of the rapporteurs and by the parliamentary committees will serve a useful purpose in providing fuel for our own discussions .
let me now mention the second guideline along which the presidency hopes the enlargement process will develop in these six months .
i have just mentioned the very important technical work under way for three years now and i have also said that , with regard to at least some candidate countries , we shall very shortly have a quite precise overview of the remaining problems .
we think the time has come to take this work to a more political level by combining all the information available to us .
that is why we are organising a substantive ministerial debate , which will take place at the general affairs council on 20 november on the basis of the precise documents to be provided by the commission concerning , in particular , the candidate countries ' adoption of the acquis and the progress that each of them have made .
regarding the basis of this debate , the presidency will have the necessary elements available to enable the heads of state and government in nice to have a serious discussion regarding the continuation of the enlargement process .
this too is the spirit in which the french presidency has decided to organise two meetings of the european conference , bringing together the 15 member states and the 12 + 1 candidate countries - twelve that have already entered into negotiations and one candidate .
one of these meetings will be at ministerial level , on 23 november this year , in sochaux , and the other will involve the heads of state and government in nice on 7 december .
these meetings will be primarily an opportunity to inform the candidate countries of the state of progress in the reform of the institutions , which is of great interest to them as it concerns the european union that they will be joining but also , of course , to initiate a political discussion with these countries regarding the operation of the enlarged european union .
this date of 1 january 2003 is by no means a random choice .
the date of 1 january 2003 , which is the only one on which the european union has agreed , is , however , both for the candidates and for ourselves , an extremely ambitious objective and this is the deadline to which the presidency will be working .
it is true , however , that the work which has been undertaken , and which we wish to boost , should make it possible , by the end of the year 2000 , both to have a better appreciation of the overall balance in each of the negotiations and also , at least for the most advanced candidate countries , to clearly identify the problems to be resolved as a priority in order to bring these negotiations to a successful conclusion .
finally , let me say a brief word on turkey which , as far as the european union is concerned , is now clearly part of the enlargement process and is the thirteenth candidate for accession .
at the same time , we are well aware of the continuing obstacles to this accession , starting with the issues related to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in this country .
admittedly there has been some progress , but they are still a long way from fulfilling the copenhagen criteria .
enlargement is our future , on condition that the acquis communautaire and the common policies which we all value highly are not thereby weakened or watered down .
i am quite ready , of course , to follow the very important debate we are all involved in here today .
mr president , mr president-in-office , honourable members , i welcome the opportunity for an in-depth debate on progress in and prospects for negotiations on the enlargement of the european union .
the development of europe has entered a phase in which , now more than ever , we need clear objectives and decisive action .
i should therefore like to establish straight away that the cornerstone which will allow the enlargement project to be completed is agreement on the institutional reforms of the eu .
a successful outcome to the intergovernmental conference in nice in december will pave the way for more pro-active negotiations .
enlargement is the only answer to the two main historical changes which we have witnessed in our lifetime .
the soviet empire gave the impression of being stable both to the outside world and internally for decades , but this stability had long been rotten and crumbling , precisely because it was not based on democracy , the rule of law , human rights and the protection of minorities .
it is no coincidence ; on the contrary , it is virtually a cast-iron rule that we only have peace and stability in europe where these values have been put into practice and where europe is already unified or is in the process of unifying .
peace and stability in europe are the basis for a happy future for all the people of europe .
the second major change which we are witnessing and to which europe must adjust is the meteoric speed at which the economy is moving towards a global market and global competition .
a larger community will have more weight when it comes to mastering global tasks .
the advantages are already there ; they are visible and everyone stands to gain .
i am firmly convinced that , without the prospect of european integration , the systems of central and eastern europe would not have been changed as quickly or as successfully .
but they have also done so because the prospect of membership of the european union gives them hope of solidarity with the people of europe and because they are being offered a firm political and economic foothold .
we are achieving high foreign trade surpluses with all these countries .
that translates into higher tax revenues , higher national insurance contributions and , most importantly , more jobs .
the forecasts for growth in the area as a whole are extremely auspicious .
the terms luxembourg group or helsinki group are merely technical terms in order to differentiate between the countries invited to enter into negotiations in luxembourg in 1997 and those which did not join until helsinki in 1999 .
the commission will be presenting its progress report for the year 2000 and a new strategy paper on 8 november .
a number of countries have made such good progress with the second economic criterion of their ability to compete in the single market that they are fast reaching the point at which they are ready for accession .
obviously , changes in this area take longer than elsewhere .
the work of creating institutions and structures is not yet finished .
i should like to clear up a misunderstanding which sometimes creeps in when we talk of the pace of negotiations .
all outstanding chapters , with the exception of institutions and miscellaneous were opened with the countries in the luxembourg group during the portuguese presidency : a total of 174 .
at least 84 chapters will have been opened with the countries in the helsinki group by the end of the french presidency , i.e .
on 8 november , the commission will present more detailed thoughts on the principles which should inform how we deal with derogations and how the corresponding decision-making process should be organised .
where major , long-term investments are needed in order to attain eu standards , we must bear in mind that even the present members claimed long transitional periods in such cases .
as regards the current situation in the monetary union , i should like to remind the house that monetary union forms part of the treaty and , hence , part of the negotiations .
i should also like to say a few words on a subject which is very close to my heart : how best to sell the project " enlargement in the societies of the member states and candidate countries " to the public .
we must help border regions to make use of the new opportunities and meet the new challenges .
the commission is already working on the relevant proposals .
there will be no environmental or social dumping because the new members will have to adopt our standards .
enlargement is also good for the level of social security in europe .
every year - and this is shortly to happen again , on 8 november - each candidate country awaits with bated breath the judgement of the commission with regard to the progress made .
this process also bears the hallmarks of a technocratic process , where the political aspects can quite easily be overlooked in amongst the abundance of detail and criteria from the european commission report .
helmut kohl , together with the german parliament and german politicians , have made every effort to anchor germany in the european union , so that earlier fears expressed by neighbouring countries with regard to a reunited germany having too much power , have fortunately proved unfounded .
the wish of the people to end the artificial division of europe should remain a source of inspiration to us all in the enlargement process .
the commission report is right in pointing out that all candidate countries have experienced major reform - and must do so in future .
let us therefore testify to the enormous efforts that these countries in central and eastern europe have made .
we were right in opting for the principle of differentiation , whereby each candidate country is assessed on its own merits .
we are constantly saying that a great deal needs to be done at the igc in nice , that our own people have certain fears and that lengthy negotiations are still needed .
we expect the first candidate countries to join before 2004 so that they can take part in the 2004 elections and they can participate as fully-fledged members in the new igc round on the european constitution , for example .
and finally , i would welcome a debate on transitional periods in the european union .
let this be a guiding example to us during the next two to three years .
mr president , mr brok 's report is an excellent description of the european parliament 's position .
my group will give it its unanimous support .
this debate is a further opportunity for my group to reaffirm its view that the accession of the central and eastern european countries , but also of cyprus and malta , is the best way of safeguarding the future for all of us in europe both in the east and in the west .
the sooner we achieve this , the better it will be for all of us .
this is no accident , because it shows that the large groups in this house and the vast majority of this house are acting in concert where this issue of the future of the european union is concerned , and that we all agree that we want the same thing .
we acknowledge the huge efforts which the central and eastern european countries are making to be ready for accession .
but these disparities are also related to the different starting points at which they began the process of converging with the european union .
we know that the central and eastern european countries will not be able to meet all of the eu 's standards by the day of accession .
transitional periods are possible and necessary , for example for the free movement of capital , for the free movement of workers , for meeting certain environmental standards which require major investment and for a series of other points .
neither can there be a transitional period for securing the external borders if we want to have open borders within the european union .
my group would also like to emphasise one further point : the future member states have undertaken to decommission first-generation nuclear power stations of soviet design .
the progress and efforts being made in central and eastern europe give us hope that the first accession treaties will still be able to be ratified in the european parliament in this parliamentary term .
i am convinced that we can manage this and also that we should manage it .
it does presuppose , however , that the european union will keep its own promise to be ready for enlargement from 1 january 2003 .
nice must deliver a substantial reform of the institutions of the european union .
yes , it is true : after 2006 it will be necessary to reform the structural funds and the support available under the structural funds .
but it is also true that in the financial perspective up to 2006 eur 68 billion is provided for ; no less , but no more either .
with this eur 90 billion the eastern europeans , not us , are funding tens of thousands of jobs in the european union .
this too is part of the debate on enlargement .
and that is why we call on the commission to table a study , a kind of cecchini report , on what non-enlargement would cost .
this too would be a useful and important input into the public debate .
it was the polish trade union movement solidarnosc ; it was the hungarian government which opened the hungarian borders ; it was the czechoslovak government which opened up its country .
all of them have made the reunification of europe possible .
and today , on the german national holiday , i say it with particular emotion : they also made the reunification of my country possible .
and that is why we have the moral and historic duty to make a success of the accession of the peoples of central and eastern europe to the european union .
i am sure that we will manage it , because we must ! ( applause ) mr president , president-in-office , commissioner , i am extremely pleased both with the tone of this debate today and with the level of consensus that is emerging among the key groups in the house , a consensus which my group subscribes to .
to create a common space of freedom , security and of values by free choice is something without a parallel among democracies in all of our history .
in the largest state of the union , the federal republic of germany , only 20 % say enlargement is a priority .
we need a dialogue of politicians and therefore we need to avail ourselves of all the information possibilities that commissioner verheugen spoke of in his very reflective and elegant speech today .
my group has 23 visiting mps , our " virtual meps , " sitting in the gallery now : i welcome all of you to this debate in the house .
that is what we must accomplish in this debate , that is the result we must pursue .
it is true that in talks with the countries involved in the first stage , which have lasted two years , we have not yet got around to dealing with the most difficult issues and we have not yet seriously managed to discuss agricultural policy , structural funds or issues of freedom of movement .
our job here today is to speed up the process whereby we can begin to discuss these issues .
the process has to some extent lost credibility as a result of this sort of hesitancy and groping around in the dark .
if we look at what is happening in our own member states , we might say that quite often the remark is reiterated that , in fact , accession on the part of the new countries will only be by their own efforts .
commissioner verheugen mentioned corruption , but i would like to mention the fact that we cannot infect future member states with bad administrative practice either .
we must also take our own administrative reforms very seriously if we also wish to root out corruption in future member states , as transparency and good administration are the best guarantee that there is no corruption .
our group believes that it is quite possible , if we are so determined , to include the first group of applicant countries already in the next european parliamentary elections , if there is determination on both sides to do so .
the next natural opportunity would be the european parliamentary elections that follow in 2009 , but we would like to push for as many countries as possible joining in 2004 .
commissioner verheugen , you may rely on the support of our group when you say you want to find real political answers to real political questions .
one quite simple way to proceed would be - as funds have been set aside anyway for five new member states after 2002 , if they happen to join the union - to use these funds in future for this support preceding membership .
we are also in favour of a european union that includes russia , and which therefore includes all the countries which have built - albeit in conflicting ways - this historical , cultural , economic , social and political reality known as europe .
the only condition would be - in our view - that they share our democratic values and respect for human rights and the rule of law .
we do not agree with recital a where it says that europe was divided by the soviet occupation because , as everybody knows and as any history book will tell you , the division was a consequence of the yalta conference and the intransigence of truman who was determined to follow a policy of confrontation .
furthermore , there are six basic aspects which worry us because of the method employed .
secondly , given the reality that the neo-liberal economic model established in maastricht leads to the paradox of growth with more inequalities , the most likely outcome of the incorporation of these countries is greater unemployment and inequality , as is already happening .
we should change our economic model in advance so that the cost of enlargement is not even more serious social inequality .
thirdly , the great differences between european agriculture and that of the majority of the candidate countries mean that the current common agricultural policy should have been improved in order to ensure both the viability of our agriculture and the successful completion of the agricultural reforms in those countries .
fifthly , we also feel that the budgetary forecasts are not sufficient , since this is the first time that a major enlargement is taking place with a budgetary reduction and we only have to look at what happened in the case of the reunification of germany to see that , in fact , a greater economic contribution is needed in order for this process to be successful .
sixthly , we believe it has been a mistake to link enlargement in practice with the prior integration of these countries into nato .
this damages the union , its future independence in relation to the united states and also a common european defence and security policy , since it also introduces risks with regard to russia and other countries .
on all these subjects , the brok report confines itself to discussing adaptation and reform .
because we wished to do away with borders in just a few years , because we chose to disregard the differences between nations and their respective systems , we have arrived , once more , at a sort of all or nothing , a choice between two equally dreadful evils .
instead , this parliament is losing itself in wearying fancies at the expense of perpetual division .
we hope that results will be achieved and that another intergovernmental conference will not have to be held in order to prepare adequately for enlargement .
now , in the previous enlargement processes , particularly when spain and portugal joined the union , we were in possession of a very powerful budgetary tool , for the delors i and delors ii packages provided an impetus which made it possible for struggling economies to make up for lost time .
this political will is currently absent , and i feel that that is the central factor to be stressed in the debate on enlargement .
the way in which this almost universal feeling found expression in central and eastern europe in the late 80s still merits our gratitude to this day .
the road to the european union , towards accession , is too long for the candidates .
the eu should make the necessary institutional preparations at the earliest opportunity in readiness for a good number of new member states , and present these countries at long last with a realistic accession strategy .
ladies and gentlemen , the council and the commission have asked for the floor once again .
it was the fall of the berlin wall , this fantastic historic event , which created the conditions for enlargement and for european reunification and which , once again , gives perspective and meaning to this task which will go down in the history of our continent .
it is henceforth inevitable , and we should not allow new divides to appear in today ' s europe , ten years after the fall of the berlin wall .
we must not , on the pretext that we are making history , fail to make proper preparations for enlargement , and that means that the candidate countries must fulfil the requisite conditions : adopt the acquis communautaire and be in a position to implement it .
i am , however , also thinking of public opinion within the european union .
let us not close our eyes to the fact that there is a certain amount of reluctance within the european union , and this is perhaps one of the reasons why you said , mr cox , that we do not talk enough about enlargement .
it is very important , and therefore i am pleased that the commission is working on an information campaign which commissioner verheugen wishes to make both extensive and decentralised .
without wishing to tell him what to do , i believe that , in order to be efficient , it must fall in line with the expectations of public opinion and take on board the practical matters of concern to public opinion : security , as we must live in a europe which is an area of freedom , freedom of movement , but also of security for its inhabitants ; employment and the fear of social dumping , which i do not share , but which we must combat by means of rational arguments ; the environment , for it is clear that everything to do with the environment , particularly nuclear safety , is a real requirement for the citizens of europe ; financing and , finally , corruption .
in this information campaign , we must fight exaggerated fears , but also solve problems as they arise .
the matter of the allegiance of public opinion to the enlargement process was also highlighted by mr hansch , and i think it lies at the very core of the debate .
with this in mind , i understand the feeling of impatience that some of you have - the chairmen , mr hansch , mr brok , and mr poettering - who would like the countries of central and eastern europe to be able to take part in the next european parliament elections in 2004 .
and on the subject , let me again remind you , bearing in mind that this comment is not , as i think i said , intended to be technical or pessimistic or restrictive - that the european union has set a date : 1 january 2003 .
it is up to the candidate countries to make the necessary efforts to achieve this , and it is up to us to assist them and also to make ourselves ready to accept them .
once again , however , let us not indulge in too much demagoguery , even if we can understand this impatience , let us be aware that it is not very likely that many countries that are currently candidates will be able to take part in the 2004 elections , even though we might like to see this .
let us create the conditions for success , for it is important that this enlargement is not a flash in the pan , not just a symbolic decision that will go on to create problems .
the first sine qua non , of course , is that we ourselves must be ready .
our final date is 2002 .
it would have all the negative consequences which several speakers have evoked in connection with failure in nice .
but it is always worth asking , when someone complains that it is all taking too long , if their country has in fact supplied all the information requested , if their country has in fact already passed all the laws needed in order to adopt the acquis , if their country has in fact created all the structures needed in order to apply the acquis .
but the fact remains that , as things stand today , 3 october 2000 , i cannot tell you when any single country in the accession process will be ready for accession .
i should like to refer briefly to two or three comments made during the debate .
but just to be sure that there is no misunderstanding between us : you said that these nuclear power stations must be shut down before accession takes place .
the policy was to agree with these countries on when nuclear power stations would be shut down .
that was the condition for starting negotiations .
i hope that these countries will not be refused accession until the agreed closing dates have been reached , because that would be pretty late in some cases .
i should like to make one other point : we did not - as mr marset campos said - pressgang candidates into nato at the same time .
the pressure to join nato , the idea of joining nato did not originate in washington , london or anywhere else ; it arose quite clearly in warsaw , prague and budapest .
which is also why they expressed their wish to join the european union .
the last point which i would like to make concerns agriculture .
allow me to point out that the opening of borders to agricultural and other products has already been extensively agreed in the europe agreements .
as far as agricultural produce is concerned , we have concluded an agreement with poland whereby as much agricultural produce as possible - in fact nearly 100 % of polish agricultural produce - has free access to the european market even before accession and vice versa : our products have free access to the polish market .
according to the motion presented here , the eu institutions , the member states and the candidate countries will all help to ensure that we are ready before the european elections in 2004 .
we will be ready as of a certain date .
we hope that everyone else will also be ready by that date .
in that case , it will , in my view , have failed in its mission and purpose .
the environment is the area which will constitute a stumbling block in the negotiations .
the only amendment which has already been tabled is covered in my report , but i am pleased that the greens wish to emphasise the importance of treating citizens equally .
i am a little concerned about the way in which parliament has handled this report on enlargement .
imagine if such radical economic and social change had taken place in your own country in such a short space of time .
they are simply not entitled to chide this baltic country like a stupid schoolboy .
the critical comments and the proposals in my report for urgently needed progress in administrative and social reform are designed to bring latvia quickly and successfully into the european union .
in the present circumstances , one thing is clear : the key to this is to be found in a transparent administration at all levels .
the basis for this must be a clear code of conduct which excludes corruption and , hence , gives citizens confidence that there is a truly independent administration taking decisions for the general good .
it is our job to continue to support latvia with the integration of the russian population .
lithuania ' s target date for accession is 1 january 2004 .
this month , on 8 october , lithuania will be holding parliamentary elections .
whatever the outcome of these elections , we may safely assume that the main parties will lend their unwavering support to lithuania ' s accession to the european union .
lithuania has considerable potential for long-term economic growth .
there is a good chance of this , but particular efforts are still needed .
as a result , revenue from exports from lithuania to the euro zone is down and , similarly , producers are of course facing stiffer competition on the domestic market from exporters in the euro zone .
as i said , despite a number of shortcomings and weaknesses , lithuania has made good progress in the economic area and is only a short way away from a working market economic .
this issue requires a special effort and , in my view , cannot be dealt with purely as a problem on the fringe of the issue of the accession of lithuania and poland .
the multi-faceted problems and the dangers inherent in the social and economic crisis in the region will not be averted , let alone solved , by isolating it .
poland will join the european union when both it and the union are ready , but it will certainly be part of the first group .
having said this , we must not deny that there are difficulties , and my report is in fact a summary of the progress made and the difficulties encountered along the road to accession .
the warsaw government and parliament have done their utmost in recent months to speed up the transposal of community legislation .
the polish authorities have also recently carried out major reforms and , although the commission ' s last annual report on poland ' s progress towards accession was somewhat negative , i hope and trust - and in this i am reassured by commissioner vergheugen ' s words just now - that the report which is published in a few weeks time will be more encouraging .
therefore , in order to overcome these obstacles , to resolve these issues , the poles - like the citizens of the other candidate countries - need incentives .
we must convince the citizens of both europe in its present form and the europe which is to come , the europe of the future , the enlarged europe , that the costs - which are heavy and onerous - are still less than the benefits which will come in the immediate future .
in the past , specifying dates has served to speed up the integration process , but it was difficult to come to an agreement on this point and so we decided unanimously to refrain from discussing the dates in our individual reports but to give a - if the truth be told - rather vague indication in mr elmer brok ' s report .
my good wishes apart , a report on the progress of the czech republic towards accession to the european union must , of course , be as objective as possible .
the objectivity of my report is certified by the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy .
plus , the report has been enriched by contributions from my fellow members in all the groups , whom i thank .
what is important to me - and my colleagues in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy supported me here - is that the copenhagen criteria , which the czechs have also acknowledged , should continue to apply and i should like the czechs themselves to review their own legal system , if necessary page by page , in order to ascertain if there are any laws which are discriminatory .
there is that risk and i am going to try to prove the opposite is true in the case of slovakia .
a badly prepared slovakia cannot become a member of the european union .
slovakia belongs to the so-called helsinki group and would naturally like to reach the premier division .
this is where that country should have been classified all along , but relations with the european union were strained under the previous government .
the government has set up an anti-corruption programme which has my admiration and appreciation .
as commissioner verheugen said before , the fight against corruption is a key priority , because corruption undermines democracy and also deters foreign investors .
the law on the use of minority languages is a large step in the right direction but the technical implementation of this act has been inadequate .
the commission reports have so far been very positive .
the level of improvement has even been such that slovakia has been admitted to the exclusive club of the oeso , and i would like to extend my warmest congratulations to slovakia on this achievement .
over the past few years , slovakia has developed a new dynamic which will enable the country to move towards the european union quickly and effectively and to turn its accession into a success .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i feel that it would be right and proper to begin my intervention by referring to the fact that , today , 3 october , we are celebrating the first ten years of german reunification .
this extraordinary event , symbolised by the fall of the berlin wall which separated two blocks of countries and also divided one nation , to a certain extent represented a pioneering step in the process of european enlargement towards central and eastern europe .
the european council , which met in copenhagen following this reunification , decided to integrate into the european union any associated states of central and eastern europe that wished to join .
the 1993 copenhagen council made it clear that the accession of the countries from central and eastern europe would depend on their meeting the obligations that are part and parcel of membership of the union .
on 30 march 1998 , a negotiation process was finally opened with the first group of countries , including hungary , the country which is the subject of the progress report now under discussion in the european parliament .
i think i can say that this report , which has been duly discussed and improved upon in the committee on foreign affairs , security and defence policy where it received unanimous approval , describes and analyses extremely thoroughly the current stage of hungary ' s path towards accession , in its dual approach to the issue .
firstly , parliament has used it as a tool to assess the periodic report drafted by the commission in 1999 on hungary ' s progress .
in this speech , i propose to highlight and discuss the six aspects of hungary ' s changing situation with a view to its accession to the european union , which warrant specific mention .
the problems that do remain are not therefore related to the exercising or safeguarding of civil or political rights but involve fighting more effectively against some less positive aspects .
thirdly , with regard to agriculture , which has a lower level of productivity than in the european union , we need to ensure that the agricultural market is fully opened up to the capital that is necessary for land privatisation , for the modernisation of farms and marketing structures and for improving yields .
this issue needs to be addressed seriously but within a broader framework that covers not just hungary but also the other candidate countries that still operate this antiquated and relatively unsafe technology .
i am therefore pleased to see that it has been addressed in mr brok ' s general report on enlargement .
the rapporteur for bulgaria , mr geoffrey van orden , has asked me to speak on his behalf since he has to attend the defence debate at the conservative party conference in bournemouth , england , today .
bulgaria has made great progress in her preparations for accession .
it has already demonstrated its commitment to regional security and stability through practical and political action , as was evidenced during the kosovo conflict when bulgaria sided with nato allies , possibly to the detriment of her own short term interest .
the bulgarian government has made efforts to overcome the problems of exclusion of the large roma community , comprising roughly 4 % of the population .
meanwhile , in a more open society with greater opportunity , people need to be assured that those in power , whether in government or in administration , are exercising their authority for the benefit of the country as a whole .
democracy and the market economy are vibrant forces in bulgaria , but they are still young and need to be sustained by the confidence and trust of the whole population .
the kozloduy nuclear power plant accounts for half the internal power generation in bulgaria .
safety considerations must of course remain paramount but other factors must also be taken into account in determining the country 's most suitable long-term energy strategy .
if europe is to embrace this historic opportunity for enlargement , removing the divisions created by the soviet occupation and the communist experiment , candidate countries must be given a chance to accede within a reasonable timeframe .
indeed , 80 % of romania 's people believe that romania belongs in the european union .
acute poverty has been a key problem in romania since 1990 and under the present government , the economy is at last showing real signs of improvement .
the current prime minister , mugur isarescu , is himself on secondment from the central bank and therefore has excellent relationships with the international financial institutions .
here we must remember that the collapse of the soviet union has left thousands of children in desperate straits throughout the union ; children whose families have given way unwillingly to pressures , children who have been institutionalised wrongly , children who are treated cruelly , children who die needlessly , children who are adopted by other countries illegally , children whose only future is to be exchanged for hard currency or household goods .
central and eastern europe and the west balkans are a prime source for the international child slave trade .
in romania the government , with the active support of commissioner verheugen , the world bank and the united nations , have given us an opportunity to establish good doctrines and best practice in the region .
this will be reflected in the coming challenge of the osce which romania adopts in january 2001 and perhaps in 2002 when romania 's probable membership of nato will be reviewed .
we must insist on a timely , appropriate information campaign for slovenia as well , in order to make all the citizens aware of the benefits of joining the european union .
parliament could contribute actively to these initiatives by opening documentation units and involving the public through schools and via their cultural , professional , social and working environments .
parliament ' s resolution of april 1999 stressed the convergence of the positions of the european union and slovenia on economic policy and security , and in this past year slovenia has indeed made a major contribution to the stability pact for south-east europe .
slovenia supported the action of nato and the member states during the war in kosovo and , considering the difficulty of making such a decision , this can be taken as evidence not only of the important role played by this country in the region but also of the convergence of its interests with those of the european union .
i would like to take this opportunity to invite commissioner verheugen to make representations to the commission and the council of europe so that the european union can revise its position and invite the serbian opposition , which has just won the elections , not to stay away from the second ballot , for that would be to hand milosevic a virtual victory on a plate without a political fight , potentially providing him with dangerous grounds for remaining in power .
the report which it is my honour to submit , which was also unanimously adopted in committee , observes that the part of the territory controlled by the legal authority fulfils the copenhagen political criteria .
cyprus has a viable and prosperous market economy and should not encounter any particular problems in adopting the acquis communautaire .
i am convinced that cyprus ' accession could serve as a catalyst and a driving force in finding a solution to the political problem of the division of the island .
we must however also point out that the definitive solution , a fair and lasting solution , must fully comply with both the relevant united nations security council resolutions , with this being , quite simply , the international law in force , and also the principles governing the european union .
i am thinking , of course , primarily of the political principles , but also the principles of freedom of movement and of establishment .
immediate confidence-building measures are essential as a way out of the current deadlock .
your rapporteur therefore proposes that the series of confidence-building measures and measures to dismantle the status quo should begin with the demilitarisation of the island , something that has , in fact , been demanded by a number of security council resolutions since 1983 .
both its security and cultural identity will be fully respected .
the european parliament and the european council of vienna , with wolfgang schussel , who at the time was still serving as austria ' s foreign secretary , in the council presidency , therefore welcomed malta ' s decision to reactivate its accession application , which had been frozen since 1996 .
it was only logical for the european council in helsinki in december last year to give the green light for the resumption of accession negotiations with malta when the accession negotiations were extended .
the national action plan to implement the acquis is creating the conditions needed to restructure and modernise the economy of this island republic .
malta ' s main problem is still that the accession process is judged differently by the government and by the opposition , while the european union just wants to be sure that the accession process progresses steadily .
what is needed , therefore , is comprehensive information for the public on the political , economic and social aspects of malta ' s accession to the european union , together with comprehensive dialogue with all sections of the population and relevant political groups and parties , in order to ensure that malta ' s accession becomes a matter of national concern and in order to pave a straight path for malta to join the eu .
allow me now to jump across to poland , which is without doubt a key country in the enlargement process , not just because it is the most expansive of all the central european economies but because of its size and geopolitical position .
poland has always been the first victim of the european conflicts which , until just recently , were played out on its territory .
it is not its fault that it has taken so long to find its way to the european union .
with all the problems inherent in poland ' s adjustment to the european union , we must not forget the historical dimension in the case of this country .
it makes sense , especially on the anniversary of german reunification , to remember that it was the polish solidarnosc movement which set the downfall of the soviet superpower in motion 20 years ago and recently enabled germany to unify .
but there should be no doubt about the will of the european union to extend its zone of peace and stability to central europe and poland .
the tendency in the report on poland , encouraging its politicians to speed up the harmonisation of its legislation with the eu and implement the acquis , and the successful conclusion of the agreement on the liberalisation of polish agricultural trade a few days ago are positive signals here .
there is a debate , which is often fuelled here or there , to find out if we should examine the process for the accession of candidate countries to the union with regard to the criteria for real convergence or for nominal convergence .
the experiences of italy and portugal obviously come to mind , and we can observe the same phenomenon with regard to the candidate countries , but for that a certain amount of flexibility is necessary in order to enable the necessary adjustments in the catch-up process .
once the conditions have been fulfilled , there is no reason why either candidate countries or the countries currently members of the euro should object to candidate countries entering the third stage of economic and monetary union .
these countries aspire to join the european union according to the criteria which we have defined collectively .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has discussed the question of extending the internal market to the candidate countries in a highly committed and serious manner , because an internal market between such different economic areas as the european union and the candidate countries is unprecedented in economic history .
according to calculations in a study carried out on behalf of the commission , it will take 35 years to halve the difference in the standard of living between the eu and the candidate countries .
nowhere in the world is the income differential at a border greater than between the eu and the candidate countries .
these interim solutions are not intended to set the status quo in stone but to act as intelligent buffers which adapt to changing circumstances .
we welcome the progress which the candidate countries have made in harmonising with european law and we encourage them to continue this sometimes arduous and difficult work .
european law is not just law in the books ; it must also be law in action in the candidate countries .
we want to encourage the commission to go ahead with its plan to draw up a work programme for the border regions which , as in the case of enlargement southwards , will , of course , also receive specific financial commitments .
i therefore ask for today ' s resolution to clearly state to these citizens that the european parliament hears their concerns ; that way we shall also have these people ' s support for the european goal of enlargement in peace and freedom .
the european parliament must vote in favour of the accession agreements .
allow me also to say at this point that i have a great deal of respect for the citizens of the central and eastern european countries who , ten years ago , had the courage to go into the streets and start this process .
this is a broad political field which includes highly explosive smaller issues and covering this broad spectrum for the twelve different candidate countries from central europe , malta and cyprus was a huge challenge .
allow me to comment on a few focal points .
this change places heavy demands on the people in the candidate countries but , at the same time , it guarantees their future and their children ' s future .
thirdly : supplementary measures , such as training people , social protection and hence social stability , and an active job market policy are also extremely important .
a few comments on new technologies : these countries too are moving from an industrial to an information society .
this process runs in parallel to enlargement .
if we are to have a common information area , we must make huge joint efforts in this sector .
the public sector should set an example in the central and eastern european and in the other candidate countries .
the whole european energy market will change on accession .
i too should like to stress on behalf of my committee that i am not in favour of linking accession dates to closures .
the process of change and the momentum of this process of change will cause structural adjustment difficulties on both sides .
we already have experience of both from enlargement to spain and portugal .
compared with the european union , participation in the labour market in central and eastern european countries is approximately five percent lower , and about twenty percent lower in the case of women .
in romania , child mortality is , in fact , four times higher than that in the european union .
if the acquis communautaire has not been completely transposed , or cannot be fully transposed , or if it has not been implemented in practice , on what basis will a decision then be taken as to what part of the acquis communautaire must be implemented at all events , and what part , further to research and interpretation , could be subject to a transitional period , if necessary ?
this comment is addressed to the council and of course to us , the member states , precisely because the rates of growth in the candidate countries are in fact far lower than those forecast in 1997 , when we first debated this question .
we should therefore be more conservative , commissioner , in our future forecasts .
and , in turn , social development is needed if we are to stabilise the european social model and ensure that this model is not jeopardised .
however , we live in the real political world and are therefore bound to make provision for transitional arrangements in various political sectors in order to prevent negative frictional losses during the accession process .
in doing so , we help both the candidate countries and the member states themselves .
for the job market and employment policy , that means that member states bordering candidate countries need flexible , intelligent transitional arrangements in the first stage for the free movement of workers , especially border commuters , but only until such time as the difference in the standard of living in the candidate countries has improved to the point at which no migrationary movements or unrest are expected .
that means that we must use the first stage following accession to jointly iron out social differences , especially if we are to be able to jointly build up confidence-inspiring relations in border regions .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the eu ' s enlargement , to include ten eastern european countries and the two mediterranean countries malta and cyprus , is upon us .
negotiations involving the european commission and the governments of those twelve countries are now under way .
three major stumbling blocks in these negotiations are the environment , agriculture and free access of employees of the new countries to the labour market of the old fifteen .
the european commission then spelled out that the internal market rules would apply as from day one of the gdr joining the eu .
at present , the eu spends approximately eur 500 million annually on the environment in the twelve new countries together .
this also applies to the inhuman transport of live animals to slaughterhouses .
mr president , when pandora opened her box all the ills of mankind were released .
that would happen with or without enlargement .
it is a long list and one that is often more honoured in the breach than in the observance by member states .
when the european union is enriched with many millions of central and eastern european citizens in a few years ' time , these countries will also add as many consumers .
although the acquis communautaire on consumer protection is relatively limited , consumer interests touch upon many other areas of policy .
that should give us food for thought , because so many of our farmers are afraid that , if we unify , we shall all go under because they are all fully paid-up agricultural economies .
we must also clarify openly and honestly in discussions with these countries , that the common agricultural policy does not imply that the same payments have to be made everywhere from day one of membership , without checking if there are price losses in the individual product segments .
all these purely agricultural matters should not obscure the fact that the following applies in the agricultural sector : unless institutional reforms are properly regulated before the first candidate countries accede to the eu , there will be much that we are unable to regulate as we would like to .
but justice does not mean that everything is measured with the same yardstick .
the economic and social cohesion laid down in the treaty , the basis of the policy of european solidarity , must be one of the basic elements of that construction .
however , we must not forget that , after enlargement and as a result of the low standard of living in the candidate countries , the average community gdp is going to be reduced by at least 18 % .
the immediate consequence will be that more than 20 of the current objective 1 regions will exceed the ceiling for receiving aid - 75 % of the community average - without having increased their income in real terms .
somebody said here today that enlargement is not a priority for 60 % of the people consulted by the latest eurobarometer .
my report on the committee ' s opinion therefore talks not only of what the candidate countries have to do but also of what the european union has to do .
my report is also bound to discuss the european union and has to demonstrate that the european funds for regional development cannot continue to be granted on the basis of a simple distribution of money between regions or districts .
if we do not establish priorities from a continent-wide perspective and straightaway , we will waste precious time , a few very important years in the task of constructing a strong and united continent .
it is essential , ladies and gentlemen , to create a genuine european regional planning policy , of which the structural funds are a component , an element , but which gives rise to ambitious actions in favour of balanced and integrated development of the european area in its different dimensions .
it is necessary to develop this european plan , link it clearly to regional policy and to the reform which is going to be implemented in 2006 .
the moment to move forward will perhaps arrive after the next intergovernmental conference .
the european parliament and its committee on regional policy , which also has competence in the field of transport and the trans-european networks , is aware that it is necessary to coordinate the different community sectoral policies in favour of a global policy of regional planning .
the european commission works on the basis of this same hypothesis and will put forward some of its proposals in the second triennial report on cohesion which it will present to parliament in december .
we know that this is perhaps not the ideal moment politically , but there is also a need to discuss the current financial perspectives negotiated at the berlin european council , which do not seem to us to be sufficient to confront the challenges of the regional policy and the economic and social cohesion of an enlarged european union .
helmut schmidt and valery giscard d 'estaing put it another way : the only way we can create realistic and viable integration is through political will and socio-economic conditions which are almost identical .
the french presidency changed its political presence here in the house prior to the reports on the two candidate countries of cyprus and malta .
elmar brok rightly started his intervention by saying that we all stand to benefit from enlargement , especially those of us on this side of the current external borders .
commissioner verheugen , you rightly stressed that it was no longer a question of if , but of how and when enlargement will take place .
the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism has tried , within its remit , to take account of two sub-sectors which mr brok addressed and which must be borne in mind if enlargement is to be a success .
if that is our classification , then transport and tourism come in the " stick " category , because in this sector we have a huge amount of acquis and it will be a question - and i shall come back to this - of actually applying this acquis .
the tina report covers these prospects .
the financial perspectives make provision for some of the funds .
there are two very important aspects in connection with road and rail transport which deserve special mention here : as regards road transport , which has already been liberalised and opened up to an extensive degree , care must be taken to ensure on accession that the provisions of community employment , social , fiscal and tax legislation are actually applied in each member state because , if they are not , this will lead to distortions of the market in the european union and in the candidate countries which , where possible , we shall then have to spend a great deal of money rectifying .
there is a series of further points which the regional committee has mentioned in its report .
we could make ourselves comfortable in our little club , but its whole raison d ' etre would then be lost , and we should not be able to secure the large perspectives of peace , freedom and stability .
nor shall we succeed , however , if we do not appreciate that enlargement should , first and foremost , be for the benefit not only of a few people but of all people in the candidate countries , or in any case the majority of them .
they have in fact experienced it at first hand for a very long time .
we therefore need to realise that women are much more vulnerable in this process of readjustment and therefore much more vulnerable in relation to the union project as a whole than we have indicated up until now .
i would strongly urge the commission to be alert to this in all its negotiations with the candidate countries .
i have already warned colleagues in central europe about this ; when the tone sobers down , then this is only proof that we are moving from the honeymoon period into a life of domestic normality within europe .
the president-in-office of the council replied that this reform cannot , of course , take place without involving the citizens .
we want an effective communication policy which enables the citizens in the european union and in the accession countries to take part in the political debate in a meaningful manner .
policy in this respect is still not sufficiently in tune with democratic standards .
we all know it : to play on people ' s fears is an electorally useful exercise and parties which have no political goals other than gathering seats , like to indulge in manipulating people ' s feelings of uncertainty .
mr burenstam linder , a former swedish colleague of mine who was an expert in this field , explained to me that any enlargement of the european union , whenever it took place , has always resulted in an excellent cost-benefit analysis on the part of the new participants and those already in the union .
well , mr president , let us spread the word that it is precisely these new opportunities arising from enlargement , to include former dictatorships and countries under totalitarian regimes , which can help us broaden our horizons .
as a result of the intergovernmental conference , the conditions needed in order for the european union to be able to enlarge will be in place .
the second point concerns the setting of dates .
if there is a need to postpone the free right to acquire land and property for family use , then let us do that .
the group of the greens / european free alliance is calling for negotiations with the first group of countries to be completed by the end of 2002 , so that the first accessions can take place before the next european elections in 2004 .
there is another reason .
common environmental standards and social rules can only be implemented if these countries are full members .
as far as i am concerned , it is out of the question to have to use additional resources from category 8 from 2002 as part of the pre-accession strategy here .
as far as i am concerned , three criteria are more important in relation to all the problems than the not insignificant criticism which i have on individual points .
first , the democratic wish of the countries and people in question must be respected after their accession to the eu .
it is therefore urgent and imperative not to allow institutional reform of the eu or enlargement to be postponed .
i also call for individual countries to be given possible target dates .
secondly , i am one of those who are disquieted by current neo-liberal trends in the eu .
thirdly , acceptance of enlargement and its positive prospects for the individual countries and for the eu as a whole basically depend - and denmark demonstrated this - on dismantling the social and democratic deficits of european policy .
enlargement is basically a challenge for the eu itself to reform and an opportunity to steer the social , employment policy and democratic aspects of european integration as a whole .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we are gathered here today to discuss the applications for membership of the european union from twelve european countries : ten in eastern europe and two from the mediterranean , malta and cyprus .
prosperity is created by restoring economic freedoms and nothing else .
once again , this constant groping around shows either that we do not know where we are going or that we know only too well and that it is too shameful to mention .
quite rightly , the commission has stressed the risk of quality and speed being incompatible .
i do not think so , and we therefore refuse , today , to follow you down this road which , in the long term , will do nothing but smother the hope of a lasting peace on the continent of europe .
this applies to the candidate countries , but in fact it also applies to all current member states .
through enlargement , we shall be participating in the largest common market in the world , with almost 500 million people and 25 per cent of world trade .
we shall acquire an extended and stable democracy and , with it , opportunities for enduring peace on what has been a constantly war-torn continent .
mr president , slovenia has succeeded in achieving the majority of the short-term priority objectives of the pre-accession partnership and this positive evaluation is helping to provide fresh impetus for the negotiations .
however , with the exception of insignificant minorities , no political group is questioning the principle objective of the slovenian policy which is to join the european union as soon as possible .
the report on slovenia presents us with a problem which is also part of the czech question , the croatian question and the situation of other nations .
the third amendment to the slovenian document , for example , welcomes the slovenian government 's intention to ascertain whether the laws and decrees currently in force , which date from 1943 , 1944 and 1945 , are in conflict with the copenhagen criteria .
while an amendment , as we said , welcomes the slovenian government 's intention to ascertain whether the laws are in conflict with the copenhagen criteria , the slovenian parliament ' s foreign policy committee , which has decision-making power , stresses that the bases established between 1934 and 1935 , upon which yugoslavia was created , are fundamental , and requests that the slovenian government firmly enforce this position in its entirety , that part of the country ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , people have spoken about a very fast timetable in the discussions on enlargement .
there is an irreconcilable conflict between these points of view .
some have suggested that this conflict should be resolved by offering the applicant countries membership of the eea first .
rapid enlargement of the eu is a political inevitability .
in this way we could create preconditions for membership of many or even all the applicant countries in the next few years .
in splitting the body of eu law in two , the level of integration achieved by the present member states could be guaranteed and cooperation could be further enhanced .
talk about the fast accession to the union on the part of the applicant countries is just empty words unless the conditions of membership are changed .
it is for these reasons and , more importantly , because of our own experience in greece , that our opposition to the enlargement of the european union is meant as an expression of brotherly solidarity to the workers and people in general in the candidate countries .
we call on them to fight for a different europe of all the people , a europe without this inhumane side , in which people will defend their destiny and live with each other in peace , freedom , comradeship and mutually beneficial cooperation .
as far as cyprus is concerned , despite the fact that the poos report contains much that is true , we feel , in addition to the foregoing , that the process of integration into the european union and the decisions taken at helsinki will not only fail to resolve the problem of the occupation in accordance with un resolutions ; they will legitimise the occupation and the definitive partition of the island .
i believe that the romanian government has problems in estimating the number of orphans who are presently in the orphanage system in that country .
in correspondence received by the european commission delegation office in bucharest from the romanian government it is estimated that there are between 100 000 and 140 000 orphans in romania at present .
the brutality of the ceausescu regime ensured that so many children were orphaned in romania since the late 60s .
it is imperative that the accession negotiations between romania and the union detail exactly what the romanian government needs to do to improve the standard and quality of orphanages in that country .
i publicly commend the work of these and , in particular , the romanian challenge appeal based in birmingham and others from ireland supported by a number of people including daniel o 'donnell , the irish entertainer , who has pledged gbp 1 million and has raised that in ireland and other parts of the world .
not only will enlargement affect human beings , it will also have an impact on the plant and animal kingdom .
mr president , i would like to make another comment about poland .
the polish people believe that the country will be ready for accession with effect from 31 december 2002 , and poland has certainly made great strides since the accession negotiations started in march 1998 .
there are already a number of progress reports available to us , and parliament , which plays an important part in this process , has repeatedly made its feelings known on the subject .
above all , the nice summit must clarify whether , and how , the eu , for its part , can get itself completely ready for enlargement in good time .
mr president , let us no longer use the word enlargement , but rather talk about accession , or even better , the reunification of europe .
the eu must pull out all the stops in order to support the candidates in these areas and not raise any new barriers , of course .
frustration in the candidate countries is mounting because they feel the accession process is taking far too long .
if this situation does not change , the whole reunification will be up in the air .
we would then share a common goal with these countries in the common agricultural policy , and it would also enable this agricultural matter to be settled once and for all by speaking to joschka fischer .
mr poos brings a european vision to bear on the subject of cyprus .
i think that the poos report will set a precedent for the european parliament and i am sure that the house will support it unanimously .
cyprus ' s heart has always beaten in time with europe .
cyprus will be a sort of bridge with the countries in the area .
i have no need to raise the economic dimension , it is covered thoroughly and dynamically in the poos report and the reports by the other institutions of the european union .
cyprus will have no trouble adjusting to the acquis communautaire .
the poos report notes that the state operates smoothly , respect for human rights and freedoms form the cornerstone of the social and cultural tradition of the island and the country ' s social structures are , first and foremost , humane structures .
it is a natural progression for existing eu member states and , when fully operational , will contribute significantly to the economic and social development of the entire european union .
the audiovisual sector is very important .
we have also addressed the issue of minorities , because the integration of these minorities - including their linguistic integration - in these countries , is also of significance .
for years now , we have had links with these countries through the tempus programme , and likewise , for a year and a half now , they have been entitled to participate fully in the educational , cultural and exchange programmes for young people .
we recently completed a study in my country , austria - which , in point of fact , shares its borders with the czech republic , slovakia , hungary and slovenia - according to which , the idea of enlargement meets with far greater approval in the border areas , where discussions are being held and there are initiatives and investments in place , than in other regions left untouched by these activities .
of course the second form of communication we need is that between the member states and the candidate countries , in order to convey what it is that is important from the european union ' s perspective .
it is certainly not just about having general objectives , or simply being present , because the acquis communautaire is also very important .
the social partners must become involved , as must all social groupings , so as to be able to convey to the candidate countries ' own citizens what enlargement is really all about .
with that in mind , i believe we parliamentarians should do our bit to ensure that there is better communication and dialogue in future .
there has been remarkable progress in several areas , but one of the aspects which was not covered in the report was equal opportunities .
mr president , enlargement will not be achieved in a controlled and organised way in accordance with the timetable the commission is proposing .
mr president , first of all , as socialist rapporteur for the report on romania , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report .
i believe that romania has embraced the challenge of a transition to an open democratic market economy .
it has successfully embraced reforms which are essential to secure a more prosperous and safer future .
as both the commission report and baroness nicholson 's report acknowledges , some progress has been made in improving conditions for some minorities .
i also believe that the commission wrongly defines minority rights solely in terms of the roma and hungarian communities .
the rights of these minorities are essential to a free , open , democratic and european romania , but i am also particularly concerned about the rights of other minorities such as the groups listed in article 13 of the teu : those who suffer from discrimination based on sex , racial or ethnic origin , religious belief , disability , age or sexual orientation .
the accession of the countries of central and eastern europe , cyprus and malta , provides us with a historic opportunity to unite all the nations of europe on the basis of shared ideals , and to make the whole continent a more stable place .
as a member of the delegation to the eu-latvia joint parliamentary committee , i should also like to briefly mention this specific case , by way of example .
in the face of the twofold challenge of both the enlargement , which must enable europe to come to terms with itself , and the institutional reform , which must increase democracy and efficiency within the institutions , the european union now , as it often does , stands at an important turning point in its history .
the institutions , the member states , and all of us , have to live up to this challenge , also in relation to the fears of public opinion in our own countries and to rediscover the inspiration , the ambition and the vision of the founding fathers of europe .
in the course of the last few years , it has been possible to bring about a distinct improvement in the situation , due in no small part to the influence of the european institutions .
these legal hurdles have now been overcome , as a result of which , many russian-speaking citizens are now prepared to recognise the citizens ' rights and duties , both in latvia and estonia , which are the countries worst affected .
it is a process that is having very mixed success , but it still inspires great hope , because it will mean that these citizens will also become citizens of the union in the future , and will therefore be called upon , in a special way , to establish ties with their homeland , where their forefathers come from .
i have a shrewd idea that these citizens will become agents of cross-border cooperation in a future enlarged european union .
there is no doubt that the diversity of cultures and peoples in central and eastern europe , and in the balkans , is , within the framework of a unified europe , being given new opportunities , but at the same time , europe will also need to realise that a problem such as the roma , for example , is a problem of a nation without a country and that is our problem too .
we cannot simply pass the buck to slovakia , romania or the other countries .
mr president , i have no intention of digging over old ground a month before the next progress reports are due to be published .
as shadow rapporteur for lithuania , on behalf of my group , i would , however , like to congratulate mrs hoff on her report .
those who subordinate historic decisions to petty national , or even party political considerations , will not earn their place in the history books .
mr president , i would like to begin by talking about bulgaria , which in recent years has made notable progress in its transition to a free market democratic society , but not without economic and social problems .
perhaps a constructive dialogue between the government , the opposition parties and social representatives could provide a positive impetus to move things in the right direction .
this dialogue would also contribute to the creation of the necessary administrative capacity for the effective management of the country , creating structures which do not currently exist and reducing cases of corruption .
many countries have faced similar problems at some time in their development and can advise bulgaria in order to help it to overcome those problems it is facing at the moment .
in bulgaria , 20 % of the active population is out of work .
bulgaria also has an important geopolitical role to play in the future of the balkans .
its cooperation with the international community during the kosovo conflict , and its balanced role at that time , are of great importance for the whole region .
in fact , bulgaria uses its position as a bridge between central europe and the balkans in a way that is fruitful for everyone .
the european union must continue to help bulgaria in its progress towards joining the union and , of course , to ensure that the planning of that aid becomes even more decentralised .
firstly , that enlargement should take place hand in hand with a deepening of the community .
secondly , the union should tackle enlargement with sufficient budgetary resources .
enlargement will thereby have credibility in the eyes of those who want to be with us in the future , and credibility in the eyes of our public from this very moment .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , ' from problem child to model pupil ' , that is how we could characterise the determination of the slovakian government and the slovakian parliament to swiftly tread the path to eu membership , and to spend the past two years making every available effort to fulfil the copenhagen criteria .
the dialogue between the social partners , the other groups within civil society , the government and parliament will play an important - and as we see it - positive part in the process .
we are particularly delighted that slovakia has made a start on granting the hungarian and the other minorities rights , which are gradually approaching the standards prescribed by the council of europe .
but differences in income among us have only grown , as has the information gap in many cases .
mr president , the challenge facing the european union in the 1980s was to complete the single market .
the challenge in 1990 was to achieve a single currency .
no country has an absolutely guaranteed right to join .
we must make sure that the countries are ready to join and in particular that they have the administrative capacity to deal with the acquis communautaire .
that is why some of us were concerned that the czech republic has delayed implementation of its civil service law and has slowed down its judicial reform whilst , on the other hand , lithuania has made tremendous strides in that area , recognising the importance of administrative capacity .
member states could do more in their twinning arrangements to assist the applicant countries in developing their administrative capacity .
finally , it is crucial that we sell the applicant countries to the electorate of the european union .
they are now much more modern economies , in many ways ready to take up the challenge of european union membership , and we have to sell that idea to our citizens if they are to support enlargement in the future .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , romania will certainly not be among the countries that accede to the european union in the first round , but it just goes to show that the commission hit on the right strategy when it decided to put twelve countries on the same footing as negotiating partners , and then to determine , on the basis of certain criteria , which countries should become members and when .
all this is to be found in the report by baroness nicholson of winterbourne , and on behalf of my group , i would like to thank her warmly for this report .
the democratic government has only had since 1996 to catch up on all the things that other countries were able to make an early start on , and with that in mind , it has achieved a considerable amount of success these past four years .
allow me now to move from the general to the specific question of the last two islands in the mediterranean which are island states , cyprus and malta , which have now set their cap at membership of the european union .
from this point of view , it is here that the logic of enlargement will be judged not only on the basis of economic or other criteria , but also on the basis of respect for more general principles which should govern our perception of the future of europe , a europe of peace , a europe of the people , a europe of states , a europe of equality and a europe which respects human rights .
cyprus and malta will prove to europe that it accepts enlargement on general terms , not for reasons of geographical symmetry , but in order to achieve the political integration of united peoples , united cultures and united prospects .
mr president , the debate that has taken place today will be remembered as one of the most significant demonstrations of the european parliament ' s work on the enlargement process .
despite the obvious differences in points of view , we have seen broad consensus on the fundamental aspects of the issue .
amongst these , i would highlight the following : the full inclusion of each new country in the european union means complete commitment , bringing together economic convergence and partnership in a political project .
amongst the characteristics that must define the identity of the european project , the most prominent are cohesion and solidarity between member states , democracy , the ethic of responsibility , the social dimension and equal opportunities .
lastly , mr president , the fact that this debate is taking place at a time when germany is celebrating the tenth anniversary of its reunification should give us food for thought .
they will unite in a common project , which is unmistakably a project of peace between europeans and between europe and the rest of the world .
mr president , i come from a country , sweden , in which there is still quite a lot of scepticism about the eu project .
the report states that each country must accede to the eu on its own merits .
my group therefore supports the proposal to limit the transitional periods in the environmental sphere to a maximum of five years .
nuclear power stations of first generation soviet construction are a particular danger as far as europe is concerned .
i have three particular nuclear power stations in mind , and they are bohunice , ignalina and kosloduj .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we cannot afford to underestimate the importance and potential implications of this historic opportunity to unite our continent and live in peace .
as politicians , we must give this momentous process our unequivocal support , even though there are still many aspects to be discussed and negotiated .
the political vision endures .
the responsibility that we parliamentarians bear at this time must enable future generations to live in peace and freedom on our continent .
i would still much rather face the problems that have arisen as a result of opening the borders , than have to continue living with my back to the wall of the iron curtain , as we had to for decades .
as well as giving enlargement unequivocal support , i would stress that it should take place as soon as possible .
we must tell the candidate countries that they must make the necessary structural changes , so as to be competitive in the future market , and they must increase the number of employment opportunities available in rural areas .
the fundamental alignment of the european agricultural model and the development of the rural area will not produce a conflict of interests between the farmers of the eu and those in the countries of central and eastern europe .
mr president , it is essential for us to adopt a positive approach to enlargement .
we have assets allocated in the budget according to the requirements of agenda 2000 , but we have to take care that the funds we need , which are required particularly in the area of the environment , are available specifically prior to membership .
the funds have to be channelled more strongly to action preceding enlargement than is presently the case according to the proposals in agenda 2000 .
overall the costs of enlargement have been highlighted very considerably in public debate .
i would like to add that it is also a moral duty of western europe : 11 years ago , the soviet system came to an end and the countries involved turned to us in hope .
my group announced its desire to see the first negotiations concluded by 2003 , making accession possible by june 2004 .
i would consider it wise to adopt a solution which is a good compromise between an enlargement process which is not too spread out over time , which would certainly prove traumatic for our institutions , and an enlargement process which takes into account the legitimate timetabling expectations of the countries .
as regard the transitional periods , i feel that we must be careful not to fall into the temptation to use them to reduce the impact of enlargement , thus detracting from the fact that the new countries belong to the european union , in an endeavour to comply with the timetable we have set ourselves .
on the other hand , it is true that these transitional periods can , if granted appropriately and in moderation , with great transparency , balance and a sense of accountability , prove to be in the general interest of all the countries .
we can take it as read that considerable strides have been made , particularly since the last reports were published .
as vice-president of our joint parliamentary committee with the czech republic , i can vouch for the fact that this is true of the czech republic , but i assume the same applies to a number of other states too .
the internal market is a key component in the success of enlargement and it is therefore clear to me that we must tread extremely carefully when it comes to exemptions and transitional periods .
although the following statement by mr schroder only relates to the czech republic , i believe the same applies across the board : ' many weaknesses that are still discernible in the czech republic are the legacy of decades of dictatorship .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we have picked the right moment to discuss enlargement .
in this way , we might avoid having to implement as many regeneration measures at a later stage , as we are having to do in our own countries now .
it is in the interests of both sides to achieve economic and social balance during integration of the transport markets , because we are already waiting with bated breath as to the consequences of distorted competition on our roads .
the eea agreement is definitely no substitute for proper membership and must not leave countries in a waiting room for an eternity , from which there would be no chance of moving forward , but it could act as a sort of tool for encouraging the applicant countries , in a way that promises a reward , to implement the acquis communautaire .
this would mean greater commitment to the implementation of eu legislation than what is required in the present convergence agreements .
the eea , which contains issues relating to the first pillar , would give businesses in the applicant countries access to the internal market and youth and science the right to engage in exchange programmes , but , on the other hand , would not yet oblige the eu to extend their agricultural aid schemes to these countries .
thus , the eea agreement could act as a positive stimulus mainly to the economies of the applicant countries - they need growth to make their societies fit for accession - but also to the eu economy , as through economic growth we can reckon to cover as much as two thirds of the costs of enlargement , perhaps even more with the eea model in place .
the answer is the implementation of the acquis communautaire .
benefits and responsibilities go hand in hand .
an eea model , which led to membership , and , at the same time , was a reward scheme , would be productive also as far as public opinion was concerned .
this holds good for both the citizens of the applicant countries and those of the present member states .
mr president , it is to be hoped that the fact that the issue of equal opportunities is the last point to be discussed in the report on enlargement , is no reflection of its status , although it sometimes looks that way .
the candidate countries ' legislative programmes and guidelines must include implementation mechanisms that allow for equal opportunities and clearly prohibit discrimination .
we must facilitate this process through dialogue with the european parliament and back up from experts , and through the involvement of ngos , associations and organisations , and financial aid .
the public and private institutions in the candidate countries must strive for equal opportunities in all political spheres , and involve issues specific to women in all social , economic and cultural areas .
it is statistically proven that since the detente with countries of eastern europe , there has been a 10 % increase in violence against women there .
secondly , say no to the big bang idea of incorporating candidate countries simultaneously as a large group , since that would militate against the principle that each country should be admitted on its own merits .
in particular , i trust and hope that , understandable difficulties notwithstanding , the negotiated procedure with bulgaria and romania will proceed smoothly and without delay so that , once the necessary conditions are in place , these two balkan countries can join the european union , thereby consolidating progress , security and peace in south-eastern europe as a whole .
we must accord this political process the historic importance it deserves and enter into discussion with the citizens .
the enlargement process and the economic and monetary union are not just a matter for the european institutions .
i call upon the member states and all public mandate holders and media at all levels to become more actively involved in this process , because only then will we be able to do justice to public confidence in these initiatives , the objects of which are in the interests of us all .
it was answered in february 2000 .
however , i must express my concern - and i ask that the presidency communicate this to the prague authorities - at the fact that two young spaniards , gaizka azcona cueva , 22 years old , and mikel oliva martinez , 21 years old , have been detained arbitrarily since last tuesday - nearly ten days .
mr marset campos , we shall certainly take note of your statement .
agenda the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has requested that the debate on the oral question to the commission on the rights of language teachers , which is currently scheduled to take place on friday morning , be postponed until the next part-session .
mr president , the question concerning language teachers which has been put down for this friday comes from the committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
it is important that we have a question and debate with a resolution at the end of it .
i note from the minutes that the aforementioned ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) i am very sorry , mr wuermeling , but the minutes have been approved .
the commission ' s proposal removes those rules which entitle local and national authorities to local derogations .
i totally agree with all the proposals tabled by the commission on this issue .
if we let the matter rest until the limit value has been reached , the measures to be taken become very drastic .
i also believe , however , that it is parliament ' s responsibility to try to produce laws , rules and regulations in the european union which can be understood by our fellow citizens who have to comply with them and who need to read them .
i would also ask you to take account of farmers whose fields border either very busy roads or industries which have contaminated large areas .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we should bear in mind the fact that one of the new features in the white paper on food safety was the ' farm to table ' idea , which made farmers directly responsible for the quality and the safety of the animal and vegetable raw materials that they produce .
as i personally am not prepared to sacrifice food safety on the altar of the agri-food lobbies , i have withdrawn my name from the report .
it would be much better to add healthy products until an acceptable level of pollution is reached .
if we were to continue to allow dilution , this dioxin present in animal feedingstuffs would first build up in the animal , and then , to an even greater degree , this toxic product would gradually accumulate throughout the consumer ' s body .
with regard to inspections , the commission ' s proposal for a directive on inspections in the field of animal nutrition stems from the report by mr staes .
as draftsman of the opinion , i approve of the main amendments proposed by the commission , such as the establishment of national contingency operational plans , giving the commission the option to adopt interim protection measures , the obligation on member states to inform the commission as soon as contamination or serious risk thereof is detected , and the creation of a legal basis in this field .
it should be emphasised that inspections must take place on three levels in order to enable an emergency system to be established .
the second level , of course , involves the member states , who are responsible for carrying out inspections of food safety .
what will the role of the european food agency provided for in the white paper be , once it is up and running ?
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we want to guarantee the safety of animal feed and human foodstuffs , and to that end we need a workable european regulatory framework .
the crises of recent years have made everyone , including ourselves , more keenly aware of the situation .
the 1999 directive was well thought-out , and it has already scored its first success by demonstrably reducing pollution levels .
farmers have a right to flawless animal feed .
nor do i have any problem with allowing dilution or blending in the case of certain products , provided it is always carried out under the control of the member state and of the commission .
if all of us were served animal feed in the canteen downstairs for a period of time , if we were able to see on our own plates exactly what animal feed is , we should perhaps deal with the issue rather differently and be just as hard and as stringent as we are on the safety of food for human consumption .
the dioxin crisis that struck belgium over a year ago made a deep impression on people all over europe .
this crisis not only cost billions of euros , but also resulted in even more suspicion about what we eat .
pcbs and dioxins are toxic substances , even in very small quantities .
i hope that the latter will change their minds for the plenary sitting , because i cannot see any arguments that could justify the inconsistencies in the commission ' s draft proposal .
i therefore think that , given the prevailing attitude in the house , we can face the vote with confidence and hope to achieve a majority , which will enable us to put our point of view across at second reading .
the detection of dioxins in citrus fruits that have been imported into the community to serve as animal nutrition revealed the loopholes in current legislation on inspections .
on this point we are in agreement .
it is time to break with a misguided interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity , which attempts to increase brussels ' s hold on our nations a little more each day .
there is a significant reason underlying our contribution , particularly regarding article 5 , which stems from the fact that , although this is a major , coherent instrument , its scope is still limited , for it concerns production measures and does not deal in any way with the commercial side of things .
we are calling for a comprehensive assessment of the issue precisely in order to afford better protection to farmers .
mr president , it is the duty of this parliament and this commission to protect the health of all citizens of the european union .
that is what we are trying to do in this report , on which i congratulate mrs paulsen .
these proposals also mean a step towards a complete package of measures in favour of food safety .
mr president , i welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this debate , which highlights the important role of the european parliament in the crucial area of food safety , public health and environmental standards .
it is in the interests of farmers and consumers to restore consumer confidence in food .
in this very sorry saga , farmers have in many cases been the innocent victims of circumstances beyond their control .
the chicken dioxin crisis highlighted the shortcomings in community legislation and animal nutrition .
these directives are part of the most radical shake-up of the community 's food safety hygiene rules for at least 25 years .
i am confident that with this systematic set of uniform rules we are laying the groundwork for filling the gaps in the existing legislation and enhancing food safety throughout the food chain .
these three reports place us on the horns of a dilemma .
as for the declaration of feed materials - the open versus the semi-open declaration - our dilemma is surely between consumer protection and economic viability .
i should like to conclude by dealing briefly with two problems relating to the declaration .
unfortunately , however , despite all our efforts , it will never be possible to completely eradicate criminal practices .
for my own part , finally , the quality of our food concerns me less than the eating habits of our citizens in general .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mrs paulsen ' s report on undesirable substances and products in animal nutrition deals with an important subject , which , like all important subjects , is highly controversial .
mr president , this directive forms part of the consistent set of measures which is planned actively to render all stages of the food chain safe .
we must attempt to improve food safety and to rule out any crises which not only put the confidence of the consumer to the test but also bring the entire agricultural sector into disrepute in the long run .
i believe that the consumer is not prepared to wait for this to happen and i also have the feeling that , whilst the compound feed sector is still creating problems at the moment , it is ultimately the farmer , in fact , who ends up footing the bill for the damage done to consumer confidence .
marit paulsen has played a very creditable role in this work by drafting her report on undesirable substances in animal feedingstuffs and the monitoring of feedingstuffs .
the committee also adopted the amendment we tabled , reminding everyone of the division that exists in respect of rules for feedingstuffs produced on farms and commercially produced feedingstuffs .
the good quality of the former is regulated by legislation on hygiene and the directive on undesirable substances in animal nutrition is most essential with regard to the latter .
this proposal will without doubt enhance the safety of feed .
amendment no 18 explicitly proposes to include water in the definition of feedingstuff .
in any case the commission cannot accept an amendment which would prohibit decontamination .
amendment no 33 deletes the possibility of exporting non-complying consignments to the country of origin .
the commission cannot accept this amendment .
the possibility of re-exporting non-complying consignments to the country of origin should remain open .
on the basis of these scientific risk assessments the commission will propose to the member states appropriate measures to limit the presence of these substances in feedingstuffs .
amendment no 38 is unacceptable as it falls outside the scope of this directive .
amendments nos 39 and 40 , proposing to delete the possibility of establishing an action threshold are similarly unacceptable .
in order to protect public health it is important that the overall contamination of food and the feed chain is reduced to a level as low as reasonably achievable .
dilution does not reduce the overall load of contamination in the food and feed chain .
having extensively explained why the commission cannot accept the amendments nos 18 , 27 , 33 , 35 , 36 , 37 , 38 , 39 , 40 , 41 , 42 , 43 and 44 , i am glad to say that the commission can accept amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 19 , 21 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 28 , 29 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 34 and 45 , as these amendments constitute an important clarification of the commission 's proposal with the understanding that with some of these amendments , in particular amendments nos 3 , 4 , 30 , 34 and 45 , further editorial changes may improve the text .
regarding amendment nos 20 , the commission can accept the insertion of a definition for consignment but the proposed definition itself needs further consideration as does the need to include other definitions .
now i want to turn to the second major proposal for discussion today with important implications for food safety .
this proposal is the follow-up to one of my first commitments to improve food safety and provides for a system to exchange information in the field of animal nutrition , with particular reference to a rapid alert system and a legal basis to enable the adoption of safeguards measures for products produced within the community and also the obligation for the member states to have in place contingency plans to deal with feed emergencies .
considering the amendments tabled for adoption in this plenary session , i appreciate parliament 's support of the proposal .
on behalf of the commission , i can accept amendments nos 1 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 18 , 23 , 25 and 26 because they provide clarification and increase transparency .
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 2 , 14 , 17 - the first sentence in particular - and 19 concerning the deletion of the adjective " serious " when clarifying a risk for consistency with our general policy laid down in the general products safety directive .
in other terms , not all risks need immediate action at community level .
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 5 and 22 on the rapid alert system as they are currently worded .
this should be sufficient , considering our commitment to establish a rapid alert system covering all the food and feed chain in the new proposal on the food authority .
in principle , i am not against amendments nos 15 , 16 , 20 - last paragraph - concerning the change from " decontamination " to " rendering the product harmless " however we will introduce some editorial changes in relation to that .
we cannot accept amendment no 21 , second indent , ( a ) , because there is a linguistic misunderstanding : " cross-contamination " is the appropriate wording to be used .
finally , we cannot accept amendment no 27 introducing in the recitals , reference to civil and criminal liability in the event of loss or damage .
overall therefore , the commission can fully accept 15 of the 27 amendments .
it is gratifying for me personally to be able to serve as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture and rural development , since this problem has been with us now for decades .
we always stressed the need for openness .
we then pressed this point again in the temporary committee which was created with a view to following up the recommendations on bse , but the commission asserted in 1998 that declarations were already open .
yes , you did mean it , and now we have a draft on the table , a draft that is entirely in line with our wishes .
one such measure is the introduction of open declarations , and an open declaration is not merely an indication of the percentage of various content categories or generic classifications but clear and precise details of the ingredients contained in the feed mix .
the commission has pledged itself to work on this list and has also said it is not something that can be done in a couple of days .
so if we were to do what we intend , if we were to implement it quickly and then pass quickly through the codecision procedure too , that would certainly be a huge step forward , and i feel sure that we shall be very strong and united in our dealings with the council .
just think of bse or dioxin , and you will know what i mean .
that is their right as purchasers as well as being consistent with the interests of consumers .
the question of genetically modified cereals should be regulated elsewhere .
the socialist group endorses the statements made by the rapporteur in his conclusions on the open declaration of feed ingredients .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , speaking for my group , i assume that the report on the proposal for a directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs will obtain the consent of the european parliament .
i also expect the commission to stipulate the necessary measures along with a strict timetable in order to ensure that the directive is applied in the member states of the union .
the basis for the introduction of open declarations , in other words the full listing of all feed materials , differs extremely widely between member states .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , after the issue of the composition of feedingstuffs for animals , if we are to eliminate mercury , lead , arsenic , ddt , etc . , we must address the question of the way in which these products are marketed .
even if we are pleased with this progress , however , how can we forget that before we finally adopted measures it took ten years and 80 deaths , and in two years ' time we may well yet discover a zoonosis , a health disaster ?
mr president , i should like to begin by saying that this commission proposal is most welcome .
indeed , it addresses a long-standing concern of parliament , which has at times , in 1997 and 1999 , asked for a review of current legislation on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs .
we all agree that there is a need for compulsory labelling that clearly indicates the various components of compound feedingstuffs and their nature .
as we all know , these measures are fundamental for increasing consumer confidence .
there is in fact a general lack of confidence , which is particularly marked in relation to intensive production processes , not only in meat production but also in fish farming .
it is possible , through clear , transparent and responsible labelling , to give consumers this confidence .
it is essential that the commission and the council should fight for these same rules to apply to all partners worldwide , especially in the framework of the world trade organisation .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , a surfeit of scandals has shaken public and consumer confidence .
as far as the directive on undesirable products and substances in animal nutrition is concerned , let me say from the outset that we need a more workable solution here which strikes a fair balance between the interests of producers and those of consumers .
i cannot but warmly welcome the pressure for the creation of a european information system for food crises , the standardised transmission of information on the monitoring and safety of animal feed and the dissemination of information on cases of contamination and of damage to public health and the environment .
what we feed our livestock is just as important to us farmers as it is to the consumers who subsequently buy our meat .
mr president , commissioner , i would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for his efforts and praise the important work of the institutions in their approach to animal health which also , of course , facilitates the protection of human health .
i am grateful that this matter is finally coming to its conclusion and that we are going to have a solution as swiftly as possible .
the tighter measures which the rapporteur announced in his report and which encompass , for example , an exhaustive list of products , for which he calls on the commission for help , is an interesting proposal and will only reinforce this policy .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i regard this amendment of the directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs as a step in the right direction on a long road .
the first aim is to create traceability of foodstuffs back to their origins , in other words maximum transparency .
the second is to restore consumer confidence in european food products after the bse crisis and the dioxin scandal .
the food industry has the necessary information to hand .
as stressed in the report by these two committees , this proposal was initiated by the european parliament out of a concern to improve both traceability and the provision of information through the labelling of compound-feeding stuffs .
the commission proposal does not enjoy the unanimous support of all parties concerned .
in my opinion , this is a legitimate right to information which must be satisfied .
as far as the amendments presented are concerned , the commission can accept amendments nos 1 , 3 , 4 and 5 that improve the commission proposal .
however , the commission cannot accept amendment no 2 calling on the commission to present , forthwith , a proposal setting out an exhaustive list of the materials authorised for feeding animals .
the procedure whereby this can be done is the amendment of 1996 / 25 to convert the current non-exhaustive list of feed materials into an exhaustive positive list .
this can be done by codecision under article 152 .
finally , in relation to amendment no 6 , this amendment is not acceptable as it falls outside the scope of this directive .
five bodies have been found and the rest have disappeared .
on my own behalf and on behalf of my colleagues in the committee on fisheries , i would ask you , madam president , to send parliament ' s condolences to the families of the victims and to the local authorities in both brittany and in marin , galicia , from where the majority of the victims came .
mr swoboda , we quite agree .
when we vote on these paragraphs , i shall ask if there are any objections to inserting them after paragraph 1 . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) mr president , may i just make a brief comment .
mr president , the reason for this amendment concerns the fact that recital c ) highlights the persistence of segregation in children ' s education and serious discrimination in the various sectors of hungarian civil society , from the economy to the public sector , which in its seriousness does not correspond to my perception of the current situation , which i have had the opportunity to observe as rapporteur and during my visits there .
the formulation that i now propose does not try to hide or deny the existence of discrimination against the roma community , which unfortunately still exists , but it stresses the need to adopt a set of positive measures leading to the free , unforced assimilation of the roma into hungarian society .
we shall now adjourn the voting in order to make way for the formal sitting . ( the sitting was suspended at 12 noon and resumed at 12.35 p.m. ) mr president , my intention is to combine the three amendments tabled by the group of the european people 's party and european democrats in a new formulation , which would make recital a a new paragraph .
welcome , our estonian friends ! ( loud applause ) vote ( continuation ) ( parliament adopted the resolution ) explanations of vote - brok report ( a5-0250 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , i am very pleased to announce that i voted for the resolution on the procedure for admitting these important new states to the european union .
secondly , that the candidate countries continue to make the good progress that they are making towards meeting the copenhagen criteria and towards the full and complete enforcement of the acquis communautaire in advance of accession .
the brok report gives us grounds for satisfaction , but no room for complacency .
almost all the reports on the twelve countries that are candidates for membership of the european union express satisfaction with the progress that these countries have made in order to fulfil the necessary conditions .
admittedly , this report has the merit of providing an insight into the immensity of the task that awaits us if we wish , not even to bring the candidate countries of eastern europe up to the level of development of the west , but simply to establish conditions for peaceful coexistence and a gradual rapprochement between the two areas that would not be too destabilising for either side .
the task is huge and also a matter of the utmost priority .
if we had to give reasons for the existence of the european union today , top of the list would be the huge task of closing the gulf that communism created between the two halves of europe .
unfortunately , from the institutional point of view , the brok report falls in completely with the standard brussels ready-made way of thinking : it takes the view that enlargement consists of bringing greater europe into the institutions of little europe .
the statements that we find most unacceptable are to be found in the combination of several paragraphs of the resolution for which the european parliament voted : firstly , paragraph 27 and those that follow , which imply that full participation in the single currency , even if not immediately , must be a condition for membership .
it is even more unacceptable to seek to turn this participation into a commitment to a global and irreversible political project .
this paragraph alone justifies all the fears that our danish friends have expressed in recent weeks during the referendum campaign , and which , quite rightly , were the reason for their " no " vote .
many other passages in the european parliament ' s resolution are equally unacceptable .
paragraph 45 , for example , requires candidate countries to grant the freedom to purchase land to nationals of member states .
furthermore , this is the type of problem that was taken into account in 1992 , in protocol no 1 of the maastricht treaty , in order to grant an exemption allowing the danes to maintain their restrictions on the purchase of second homes by non-residents .
paragraph 65 is another example of brussels ' s desire to dominate and unify , stating that the non-discrimination clause provided for in article 13 of the ec treaty is part of the ' acquis communautaire ' and insisting that " legislation derived from this article be fully implemented in the ceecs " .
even if one approves of the principles of article 13 , it is quite clear that derived legislation that the european union may draw from it sometimes goes too far , and that there are no grounds for refusing candidate countries the right to cultural diversity .
enlargement towards the countries of eastern and central europe ( ceec ) , cyprus and malta has been called an ' historic task ' for the european union .
extending the european union , at least in the first stage , to more than 100 million new citizens , will provide new impetus for the development and integration of the european economy as a whole .
the first wave of new member states could increase europe ' s population by more than a quarter , taking it to almost 500 million people , whilst the total gdp of the european union would increase by only 5 % at the most .
the report urges the commission and the council to ensure that the principle of differentiation , as defined in helsinki , is implemented to the letter , so that each country is judged on its own merits .
to return to the budgetary aspect , i think it is crucial that we study the budgetary consequences of such a large number of new member states joining before the end of the current financial cycle in 2006 .
lastly , i wish to stress the fact that the enlargement process must be a gradual one , following the pace at which the candidate countries are making the necessary changes .
his report clearly sets out the issues and the objectives of enlargement in the field of regional policy and he does so in both political as well as financial terms .
in order for this to happen , candidate countries need aid , particularly through the phare programme .
this report forces us to face our responsibilities and that is why i voted in favour of it . - ( sv ) in adopting our position , we have been guided by the following basic attitudes : 1 .
if the country so wishes , it should be possible to extend the the transition period . 2 .
when the candidate countries accede to the eu , they must be treated in the same way as all the other eu member states .
this is an excellent report which , as well as analysing the progress made and the difficulties still facing the countries with which negotiations have begun , also serves as a reminder to the public of the political and ethical commitment which the european union , this parliament , has made , not only to the candidate countries which wish to share our european history , and have the right to do so , but also to the political project of european integration itself .
i believe that enlargement will not only favour the prosperity and economic growth of the candidate countries and , by extension , that of the current member states of the union , but will , above all , also provide a guarantee of peace and stability in europe and thereby offer the european union the opportunity to finish the task of ensuring peace in europe , which began fifty years ago .
it was decided in berlin to allocate approximately eur 3.1 billion a year to the gradual integration of the applicant countries for the period from 2000 to 2006 , which amounts to a total of about eur 21.8 billion , and to earmark a further eur 58.1 billion for enlargement from the year 2002 .
the financial framework for the enlargement of the union , however , can only be facilitated through a rise in the current member states ' contributions and not through constant cuts in planned expenditure on the various community policies .
although it may be difficult to have the various sensitivities , histories and , sometimes , contradictions live side by side , enlargement must adhere to this concept of peace and take part in the creation of a community that transcends ancient geographical and ideological borders , guided by common values and rules .
nevertheless , in order to prevent europe becoming nothing more than a free trade area , the european union must provide clear answers to the institutional , social and economic questions that enlargement is bound to raise .
we must , as of now , adopt a pragmatic approach to the implications of a europe not of 15 , but of 25 or 30 .
it is about formalising a system which allows financially strong eu companies to dominate neighbours in the east and south , at the same time as the eu develops into a military superpower .
french workers have no more had the chance to say what they think about the charter of fundamental rights than the people of lithuania have about joining the union .
the criteria laid down at the copenhagen council in 1993 on democratisation or the ability to withstand competition actually strengthen the hand of unrestrained , destructive capitalism , in the guise of acquis communautaire .
we want another europe , an alternative model of european integration , a europe that is great , the europe formed by the cooperation of independent sovereign nations , whose aspiration is to include all the countries of europe , just the countries of europe .
consequently , in most member states , neither the citizens not the parliaments have deliberated on the principle and conditions of enlargement .
until the definition of a political and social europe is made clear , not only in order to overcome the obstacle of the proper technical operation of the decision to be taken at 23 months but also in order to define the framework of the values , common social and citizenship models , enlargement will entail running more risks than it creates opportunities .
i abstained in the vote on this never-ending resolution on enlargement because i believe that parliament would be doing a disservice to the politically important and worthy cause of eastward and southward enlargement of the european union to the south and east with this semi-digestible screed of paper .
i even fear that this collection of country reports and comparative reports will prove counterproductive , particularly in the countries that have applied for membership of the european union , and more especially in the applicant countries of central and eastern europe .
the impact of this long-winded resolution of 127 paragraphs , indeed , is liable to be in inverse proportion to its length .
reading the section of the resolution entitled ' enlargement and equal opportunities ' , which states that the adoption of the community acquis in the area of equality is a sine qua non for accession and makes other demands of the applicant countries , i have the impression that all this could be interpreted by those countries as the ultimate bid to block their accession .
so it would be nothing less than arrogance on our part to expect more of the applicant countries in this domain than we ourselves have been able to achieve in the 25 years since the adoption of the first directives relating to equal opportunities .
i also wanted to send a signal that would be properly understood in the applicant countries , to convey the message that we are in favour of accession but that we , like they , must first be in a position to create the necessary conditions for their membership .
the eu ' s member states have an historic task which consists in welcoming the countries of eastern and central europe into european cooperation .
enlargement ought not , however , to be regarded as a problem , but must be seen as an opportunity for deepening cooperation on cross-border issues which the states cannot solve on their own .
europe ' s leaders must therefore begin to show the political will to accept the challenge posed by enlargement .
if europe is to become whole , the objective must be for all member states to participate in all areas of cooperation .
objectively , this complex process can take up to 20 years to complete .
the size and breadth of the problems raised by enlargement are incompatible with the duplicitous language that has been used about it within the european union .
a europe of this type would be a guarantee of peace and would signify the rejection of any ethnic nationalism .
the prospect of uniting nations around a common political project , on a democratic basis and in order to promote the prosperity and welfare of the various peoples is an exhilarating one .
this must be the objective of a greater europe .
for me , enlargement is not a question of whether to endorse the entry of certain countries into europe .
europe and the european union are two different things : the european union is a political entity conceived 50 years ago whereas europe is a geographical , historical , political , cultural and social entity whose origins lie in the mists of time .
to become part of the european union one needs to apply , whereas one becomes part of europe by birth , through a blood tie which unites all the people of this wonderful continent .
in general , we are all in favour of enlargement , but this will only fully come about when the candidate countries have carried out the necessary structural reforms , when the european union 's institutions and decision-making processes are capable of handling such a situation and , most importantly , when we at last realise that europe is not a question of political status but , more than anything else , a story of roots and common history , blood , sweat and tears , dreams and visions , which unite us above and beyond political and economic issues .
carlsson report ( a5-0238 / 2000 ) mr president , i am very pleased to be able to announce that i voted for the measure on estonia 's application for membership of the european union .
i would like to take this opportunity to extend a greeting to the pensioners and elderly people of estonia , in the hope that we will look after their interests once they join the european union .
it is therefore very positive that accession negotiations with all applicant countries have made progress .
enlargement will also benefit the present members of the european union .
with respect to the question of estonia ' s minorities , the important language law , which was passed in june 2000 , is in accordance with all international norms .
schroedter report ( a5-0239 / 2000 ) mr president , both on behalf of the pensioners ' party and on my own account , i voted for the report on the republic of latvia 's application for membership of the european union .
and it is this feeling - or lack thereof - much more than meticulous analyses of the accounts , which should , when the time comes , govern our choices regarding enlargement as european integration ceases to have any meaning if it is no longer primarily political .
the pettifoggery intended to alter the frame of reference used to view events when they run counter to the slightly too rigid technocratic and monetary dogma - this house ' s astounding indifference in the fact of the outcome of the danish referendum is a splendid , worrying example of this - should not be used as a benchmark for a debate of this importance .
and so , in agreement with the observations and comments made by the rapporteur , i therefore welcome this dialogue and the prospects it gives rise to .
hoff report ( a5-0240 / 2000 ) regarding the stage reached in the agreements on lithuania 's accession to the european union , i would like to take this important opportunity to extend a warm greeting to the pensioners and elderly people of lithuania .
as the rapporteur , magdalene hoff , declared , it is important for the ignalina nuclear power station to be closed down , as it is particularly dangerous .
i would like to take this opportunity to extend a greeting to the pensioners and elderly people of poland , some of which belong to a pensioners ' party which is similar to the pensioners ' party which i represent in the european union .
let me remind you that the agreement between europe and poland was signed in december 1991 and came into force in february 1994 .
on 5 april 1994 , the polish government made its official request for membership of the european union and , on 31 march 1998 , negotiations were officially opened .
by dint of its geographical position it represents an extremely important factor in the stability of the future geopolitical position of the european union .
accession negotiations with poland have entered a crucial phase with the opening of all the chapters , including the very important chapter of agriculture .
the european commission has published the second report on poland 's progress along the path to accession .
it notes that a great deal of progress has been made thanks to the efforts made by this country , particularly in terms of adopting the community acquis .
moreover , poland fully respects human rights and fundamental freedoms .
restructuring of the agricultural sector would appear to be necessary in a country where the rural population represents 38 % of the total population and accounts for 4.9 % of the gdp , and where agricultural employment is estimated at 27.4 % compared with 5 % within the european union .
i am fully aware that the polish authorities consider that poland will be ready for accession by 31 december 2002 .
poland is making considerable efforts .
i note that the poland is making excellent progress towards meeting the copenhagen criteria and fulfilling the acquis communautaire .
we therefore have a duty to embrace poland as a member as soon as possible and treat the country as it deserves , as one of our members for all time .
most of all , this country , which has ceaselessly fought against all hegemony , will bring us a new but , at the same time , experienced insight enabling us to parry the risks of any new imperialism , even that apparently inoffensive one - which may yet be a harbinger of the worst perils - of noble sentiments and a quiet conscience on the cheap .
if the czech republic joins the union without the considerable safety risks of temelin being resolved , it may well prove difficult in future to persuade other candidates for accession to take the nuclear safety requirement seriously .
wiersma report ( a5-0244 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the report on the current status of slovakia 's application for membership of the european union .
as mr wiersma said in his report , i would stress the progress made in the slovakian republic in the area of the protection of minorities .
it should be noted , in particular , that it is permitted to use the roma language in 57 districts where the roma population exceeds 20 % .
i have no doubt that the european union will make every effort to resolve their problem .
i look forward to early membership for hungary .
i abstained from the final vote on this report .
the existence of serious discrimination against this community , one of the most victimised communities in europe , is a key element casting doubt over whether hungary is truly committed to making europe an area of peace , democracy and prosperity for all its constituent populations .
i look forward to bulgaria joining the union in the not too distant future .
i note that slovenia has made excellent progress towards meeting the copenhagen criteria and is making good progress towards fulfilling the acquis communautaire .
i hope slovenia will be in the first group of new members .
in addition , the report called for the repatriation of settlers which presumably includes their children born and raised in cyprus .
the european parliament has failed in its duty to reflect a balanced approach which i very much regret .
the un settlement process has now lasted since december 1999 without a break , longer than any of the previous attempts to solve the cyprus problem .
the uk position is that it is vital for us to do everything we can to show our support for the secretary-general 's efforts .
unfortunately some of the comments made in the draft report on the application by cyprus for membership of the european union by the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy are not helpful .
the european commission ' s assessment is very positive .
i would also like to urge that the european union , through its high representative for the cfsp , should get involved to a greater extent in seeking a negotiated solution in order to put an end to the partition of the island , in application of the united nations security council resolutions .
the european union does have the capacity to make a key contribution to the security of the cypriot communities in the context of a peace settlement .
it is essential to initiate projects involving both communities and to encourage dialogue between both parts in a new spirit of trust .
it is therefore essential for turkish cypriots to express their point of view on the accession negotiations .
it is unfortunate that the eu takes a one-sided position on such an acute and difficult question .
we are convinced that initiatives at all levels are required if to break the deadlock which have been reached in negotiations .
from the economic point of view , the accession of cyprus should not pose major problems , since it is a country with a market economy and a high standard of living .
paulsen report ( a5-0257 / 2000 ) mr president , what remains to be said on the subject of food safety and the precautions to be taken in order to avoid further instances of contamination or further food crises ?
every link in the chain must be responsible for what it produces and for its precisely identifiable role .
the safety bolt guaranteeing this discipline lies in the commission ' s determination to ensure that consumers are provided with consistent quality , at all levels , in the products available on the market .
food safety requires that we must increasingly pay the closest attention to feedingstuffs , given the close links that exist between animal nutrition and human nutrition .
another positive step is the ban on diluting batches of products that have higher levels of undesirable substances than the established maximum limits with non-harmful products in order to get around the established maximum limits .
we must effectively be vigilant in this area as animal feedingstuffs are the first link in the food chain .
the prohibition of undesirable substances in animal feedingstuffs is therefore a basic element in our food safety policy .
the destruction of contaminated foods or food compounds provides a twofold guarantee making it possible to limit the trafficking in this type of food .
it was , moreover , essential to step up harmonisation of the conditions of performing checks and inspections in the field of animal feedingstuffs .
paulsen report ( a5-0256 / 2000 ) it is important that a full , detailed declaration of the ingredients of compound feedingstuffs should become mandatory to guarantee their safety , by means of clear , transparent labelling which will allow stock farmers to make their own decisions on feed purchases .
as we all know , back in 1997 , in the aftermath of the bse crisis , parliament called for legislation to this end , and this call was reiterated after the scandal in belgium last year when dioxins were found in feedingstuffs .
i welcome the vote by this parliament deploring the flagrant violations of james ' rights under un international law .
we , as elected members , are outraged that 51 democratically elected members of the nld are in prison , victims like james , of inhuman and cruel abuse .
i would like to express my sincere thanks to my co-rapporteur , elizabeth lynne , for her cooperation and constructive comments and extend that gratitude to all members of the article 13 rapporteurs ' working group .
i should point out to members that the council working group agreed unanimously to recommend to the council that the type of committee in the action programme should be modified to a mixed committee , a combination of the management and advisory procedures , thereby increasing the power of the individual member states .
the council informed parliament before the vote in committee , but only just before , deliberately ruling out any chance of further debate with myself or parliament .
a politician can have no greater responsibility than to be given the opportunity to redress the wrongs so often visited upon minorities .
i accept that responsibility eagerly , with a determination to ensure that this action programme to combat discrimination , not just in the eu but also in the candidate countries , is not the end of a noble process , but the beginning .
whilst compiling my report , i was sad to realise that some ngos believe their continuation is more important than that of other groups .
in my report , i have called for greater representation and involvement of ngos , greater accountability to parliament , the production of an annual report to be debated by parliament , the highest possible degree of transparency , promotion of remembrance of the past in the fight against prejudice and the recognition of multiple discrimination .
i urge parliament to support my report .
that is why it is quite essential for the groups listed in article 13 to be effectively protected against discrimination .
no wonder the french presidency of council described this issue as one of its priorities .
in the committee on employment and social affairs we defined " reasonable adjustment " very precisely in article 2 ( 4 ) , together with the circumstances under which undertakings cannot reasonably be expected to pay the costs involved , i.e. , if they are too small or their turnover is too low .
article 9 of the draft directive states that persons who consider themselves discriminated against , whether as unsuccessful job applicants or as dismissed workers , can seek legal remedy .
only associations , organisations or legal entities representing the interests of employees and the groups protected by article 13 should be entitled to initiate proceedings .
the committee on employment and social affairs decided by a majority that these agencies should be set up in the eu member states rather than setting up a central body at european level .
these communities make vital contributions to society in terms of social facilities such as nurseries , hospitals and educational institutions .
the action programme must enable groups that are discriminated against to take action themselves .
briefly , on the employment directive , i would like to congratulate thomas mann for an excellent report .
i also urge you to vote for the amendment by the committee on employment and social affairs on age .
indeed , equal treatment is a fundamental constitutional right which forms one of the cornerstones of the european union .
they also form part of a practical policy because directives and action programmes encourage the member states to fight discrimination on the basis of the same guiding principles and because the commission can fulfil its role as guardian of the treaties but also as a pioneer in the social debate .
not only do the social activities which underpin the social programme complement the directive ' s legal framework , they also need to generate the extra information , the expertise and the support structure to complement and improve this legal framework .
the two proposals which the european parliament is discussing today are both based on article 13 of the ec treaty .
it thus follows in the footsteps of the current article 141 , formerly article 119 , which lay - and still lies - at the basis of european legislation to combat sex discrimination .
first of all , we are dealing with a different decision-making procedure involving the european parliament which , with regard to the implementation of article 13 , cannot yet fulfil its role of co-legislator .
secondly , a whole raft of pieces of legislation has now been drafted concerning the equal treatment of men and women , the oldest dating back 25 years .
this summer , the council adopted a directive to combat discrimination on the basis of race or ethnic origin .
this directive provides a higher level of protection , and is wider in scope , than both existing equal treatment legislation on men and women and the draft directive which we are discussing here today .
we in the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs have always argued that this fragmented approach gives the wrong political signal , as if there might be some sort of hierarchy in discrimination .
as already stated , the level of protection concerning the fight against sex discrimination should also be brought into line with the highest standard .
the existing set of directives concerning sex discrimination pertains to labour , remuneration and social security , whilst the current measures against discrimination on the other grounds specified in article 13 apply to a much narrower area .
i am delighted that the commission pledged its willingness this summer to compile a draft directive also to combat sex discrimination outside the employment sphere , but i cannot understand why such an announcement for the other grounds of discrimination has not yet been forthcoming .
this principle , as well as the prohibition of all types of discrimination , have also been included in the draft charter of fundamental rights .
the programme , despite being modest financially , can play a significant role in strengthening the mechanisms for combating discrimination and will achieve its aims if there is coordination , at both a community level and within the member states , with other programmes and initiatives in the same field .
it is the member states who are most directly responsible for the eradication of discriminatory practices and it is therefore essential that we incorporate all our accumulated experience and acquis in this field , and that this parliament ensures that it is effectively monitored .
we must support the social partners , the ngos and other institutions which are pursuing the same objective , and we must also demand rigour in the selection of the actions and organisations which we are to support financially .
ladies and gentlemen , we are all aware of the budgetary pressures that exist within category 3 expenditure , which includes this and other programmes .
although the present legal basis releases appropriations for new preparatory actions , their funding within this category could lead to a reduction in appropriations for other policies .
the fight against discrimination is something which concerns us all .
in my view , this programme operates within a very general scope .
with regard to the proposal for a directive , i would like firstly to congratulate mr thomas mann on the excellent work he has done .
the common objective of eradicating discrimination in the field of employment can and must be pursued from many angles , but it is clear that the role to be played makes it essential to establish a minimal legal framework which must be consistent with all the measures to combat discrimination and , in particular , with the directive on race .
the member states already have a legal framework , both in the constitutional field and in ordinary legislation , and experience of the measures adopted in the fight against discrimination , which must be taken into account .
therefore , the concepts of framework directive and minimal directive are the key to interpreting the present proposal for a directive .
the system of penalties laid down in the directive must guarantee that it acts as a deterrent and that it is effective in the eradication of discriminatory practices .
however , as well as the penalties , the declaration of invalidity of activities is also important in the case of serious violations of the principles laid down in the directive .
the exception of a difference in treatment which may be made on ideological or religious grounds or for reasons of age must bring together the law which protects certain public and private organisations with scrupulous respect for the principle of equal treatment .
the fight against discrimination will be a long one and we must therefore be attentive to the results of the measures we are debating today .
this package of legislation will open a new and radical chapter in the eu 's history of commitment to securing equal opportunities and combating the modern scourge of discrimination .
this parliament will send a clear message in our vote to all our citizens that we intend to improve member states ' record in ensuring respect for equal treatment , irrespective of age , race , disability and sexual orientation .
uk employment legislation will now have to be reviewed to ensure that ability , not age , determines who gets the job .
this legislation will encourage employers to seek to use the talents , the ability , the experience of all people in our society .
it is the biggest overhaul of discriminatory legislation that we will ever see in europe and back in our own member states .
but the kind of legislation we are looking at today will have a big impact on peoples ' lives and make people understand that here in strasbourg and brussels we do things that make a difference .
similarly they took on board our comments on the involvement of ngos .
i do not consider that the main aim of european programmes is to support these organisations , but without them it would be very difficult for us to hear the voices of those target groups .
finally , there are those in this house - i have heard them in my committee and elsewhere - who argue that we do not need this kind of legislation , it is too burdensome , it is a lawyers ' charter .
mr president , first of all , i would like to congratulate the commission on the initiative to develop article 13 of the treaty further .
after so many years of talk , we finally have an initiative to tackle discrimination in different areas more effectively .
discrimination can have different consequences for men and women .
i should like to highlight the importance of a person in whom employees can confide within an organisation and the importance of an independent body to which people and organisations can turn in the event of complaints concerning discrimination and intimidation .
it is a compromise , but one which enjoys wide support within parliament .
mr president , no sensible person can think that the european parliament does not have to concern itself with discrimination , even if , in the case in point , it is a matter of rewriting and expressing our opinion on a report proposing a decision for the council of ministers which will do whatever it wants to anyway .
in committee , i have had occasion to make a stand against the fact that there may also be experts outside ngos that have something to say .
finally , this community policy , article 13 , does not lead to a situation where the solution lies necessarily in more money .
finally , we in the ppe-de group place great hope in the policy of assessment and coordination , and one of our proposals is that the fight against discrimination should give rise to a specific report to be presented before parliament , which will account for the money and the use of the community money which has been invested .
finally , and this is my concluding remark , the definition of the causes which has been given and , indeed , adopted in the charter which we shall have to adopt in november , is an acceptable one , making it possible to resolve a great many tensions within the european union .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , if tomorrow , the entire house adopts the viewpoints held by the competent committees with regard to the directive , i am convinced that the new directive on equal treatment in the workplace will be an excellent directive , which will have an enormous impact on the elderly , the disabled , homosexuals and lesbians in their battle against discrimination in the workplace .
my group therefore lends its unqualified support to the report and we would particularly like to thank the co-rapporteurs , mr thomas mann and mrs joke swiebel for their sterling work and also congratulate them on the excellent cooperation within the respective committees .
i would , in fact , like to seize the opportunity also to congratulate mr cashman , because although directives are important , action programmes are , of course , essential too in terms of the support they lend to directives .
parliament rightly chose to play the trump cards which we already have in the form of existing directives on equal treatment , those on gender and those on race and ethnic origin , and i am particularly pleased with the sound descriptions of indirect discrimination , positive action and the principle of shared burden of proof .
we were also right to decide against including sex discrimination in this directive because there is already a separate european directive on sex discrimination , which will , in fact , be revised further to the commission proposals and which is founded on a much stronger legal basis , about which parliament , in fact , may decide in codecision .
what is important , however , is that the european parliament should advocate that double discrimination , which often victimises older women and disabled women , should be tackled here .
thirdly , my group applauds the decision to delete the non-exhaustive list of so-called justifications of differences of treatment on the grounds of age .
we are also delighted with the provision in the directive which stipulates that equal treatment for the disabled also means that companies are expected to make the necessary adjustments within the workplace .
finally , commissioner , i would like to say how excellent this work is .
let us hope - and i am relying on you , commissioner - that the european commission will now come forward with proposals , pursuant to article 13 , to fight discrimination on grounds other than those to be found in the workplace .
mr president , the excellent work of both rapporteurs completes a remarkable series of reports by this parliament on the implementation of article 13 .
this first year of the 21st century has shown the eu institutions determined to entrench non-discrimination as a basic european value and fundamental human right .
the right of all human beings to equality before the law and protection against discrimination is a basic right .
the community must supplement them with political and practical programmes that can actually be implemented .
therefore , we are providing funds for turkey to use as it likes without any obligation to eliminate the worst form of discrimination , which is a combination of all forms of discrimination in that , if there is discrimination against kurds in general now , discrimination against kurdish women , people of kurdish origin with deviant sexual tendencies and disabled people of kurdish origin will soon follow .
i would like to remind you that the first action of the members of the bonino list this parliamentary term was to promote a proposal for a resolution on the fight against discrimination based on sex .
mr president , this afternoon , we are discussing two of the three commission proposals in which anti-discrimination legislation on the basis of article 13 of the ec treaty is proposed .
it appears to be putting more distance between beliefs and practical attitude to life and , as a result , institutions are even further restricted in living out and maintaining their own identities .
absolute freedom of religion is impossible , as is absolute equality .
discrimination in the sense of treating people as inferior , taunting them and putting them at a disadvantage is an evil that must be eradicated .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are all glad that there is an article 13 in the treaty of amsterdam because it finally puts an instrument in our hands and gives us the task of creating a comprehensive programme to combat discrimination .
the commission has submitted an action plan until the year 2006 .
i do , however , have problems with mr cashman ' s report , which is peppered with 17 proposed amendments .
my second point is the problem that ngos , important as they may be , are being asked to be involved in implementing the programme regardless of their size , nature and activities .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , this week is an important week as far as the debates in this house are concerned .
we are thereby boosting the positions of the european union regarding the practical situations experienced by european nationals in connection with discrimination and equal treatment .
in this regard , i cannot accept the muddle that some parties are making of the necessary anti-discrimination measures , equal treatment and the mention of other cases of prohibition .
the proposal for a directive discussed in the mann report is a key one , and i should like to discuss it briefly .
i should like to express our reservations on this difficult issue and restate our commitment to the principle of secularism , especially in the context of the fight against discrimination .
one last word on the discussion which may ensue on the need to maintain statistics on the subject .
mr president , commissioner , our group has evaluated both reports with positive results and would , in particular , like to emphasise the fact that we have all focused on the need to expand the programme 's scope with a series of amendments - which , in actual fact , have led to another survey on discrimination - intended to guarantee equal treatment to all people , irrespective of their sex , race , ethnic origin , religion , personal convictions , age or sexual orientation .
yet we were even more impressed by fact that , at the end of the report , provision was made for an evaluation of the outcome of the processes and programmes , for this is also a guarantee of fairness , impartiality and transparency .
i feel that this is a highly positive and constructive process , considering , also , that the results can be made available to the public and used to improve the quality of subsequent actions .
mr president , i too would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and those working on the equivalent opinions on their commitment to this work and their willingness to cooperate with all of us in this house who wish to see progress in combating discrimination .
the importance people attach to this has been reflected in the fact that i have received more lobbying on this directive than on any other so far in this session and from a wider range of people .
the aim of this work , based on article 13 , is to make equality of opportunity a reality by removing that smiling face that so often cloaks prejudice and bigotry , predominantly in the workplace .
employers will now have to be clear and transparent in all aspects of their employment policy and practice and able to justify the choices they make on the basis of the real job requirements .
my group welcomes both the framework directive and the proposed community action programme and sees them as an important step towards tackling prejudice in other aspects of people 's lives .
for that reason we shall be supporting amendment no 18 to the mann report which calls for member states to repeal all penal code provisions discriminating against homosexuals .
or , does it mean , as i would hope , that we should learn the lessons from the clinton experience and all behave appropriately in the workplace , whatever our sexual orientation .
in dealing with religion , my group welcomes amendment no 37 to the mann report .
it is important that , while we recognise the desire of organisations based on a particular religion or belief to employ people who share their views , it is also right that this desire should not become a reason to deny employment to people who are perfectly qualified to carry out a job which is not directly connected to that belief and who conduct themselves appropriately while at work .
age discrimination is also rife and no voluntary code can really combat gratuitous discrimination .
yesterday , for example , the charter of fundamental rights condemned discrimination , not just racial discrimination but even , according to the charter , discrimination on the basis of birth .
in affirming the principle of equality , all the constitutions of the world virtually establish a principle of constitutional jus cogens , since discrimination is prohibited everywhere .
on the other hand , however , for forty years there have been texts in existence which are actually based on discrimination .
in geneva in 1963 , the first of these , unctad , united nations conference on trade and development , established the principle of compensatory inequalities or , in other words , discrimination .
our own lome convention itself is based on discrimination in favour of the caribbean and pacific states .
our entire dispute with the united states , moreover , has arisen because we wanted positive discrimination in favour of our own acp banana producers whereas the united states wanted an egalitarian system which would serve the interests of multinationals .
europe itself , with the gsp , the system of generalised preferences , which leads us unilaterally to give up our customs duties to the benefit of a whole series of states , is based on discrimination .
and the national laws in our 15 countries also practice discrimination , including the socialist france of the socialist mr jospin .
not everyone in the olympic games gets through to the final .
so , in sociological terms , there is the risk of abuse .
the principle of non-discrimination is a fine one , mr president , but it also has a flip side .
in general terms , i agree with the emphasis placed on the development and growth of cultural tools to fight discrimination : in my opinion , we must combat discrimination with a culture of non-discrimination , making up-to-the-minute , accessible information available to all the citizens of all the member states .
in fact , information and awareness campaigns are vital in this area : they must act as hammers to forge new mentalities and bring about a new way of thinking and behaving , in order to drive out those prejudices which are still widespread and to ensure equal rights for all citizens .
mr president , the proposal for a council directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation extends the ban on discrimination beyond reasons of race or ethnic origin to other reasons which are used as a motivation for discrimination and which are mentioned in article 13 .
this means harmonising the acquired rights in a positive way in order to protect the weakest and most oppressed on the labour market and not , for example , in the name of equality , authorising night work for women .
it will also contribute to enhancing the image of europe in the eyes of the rest of the world , which is watching us especially closely , by actively demonstrating that europe is continuing to work hard to protect human rights and to promote solidarity and democracy .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , as is well known , many forms of discrimination still remain in the european union , specifically in employment and professional activities , even though they are prohibited under article 13 of the eu treaty .
it is therefore important to press forward with the two legislative initiatives that are now being debated , while improving them in certain respects and increasing the funds set aside for financing the programme , thus reflecting the political importance of this fight against discrimination .
so those who claim here that europe does not need to lay down in a directive the values which we all aim to defend are mistaken .
i welcome this directive as the first-ever eu law introducing europe-wide rights for our 37 million disabled citizens , an end to the back-door route to legislate for disability rights and a tribute to the disability movement which has campaigned for this day .
in particular the agreement of the principle of reasonable accommodation , pioneered in sweden and ireland , will now ensure that employers across europe adapt their workplaces , acquire specialist equipment and amend their working practices so that disabled employees really do get a fair chance .
mr president , if one thing singles out european society from the other societies of the world , it is precisely its sensitivity and commitment to the fight for freedom and human rights .
however , i would like to say that this fight is not the exclusive property of the left .
article 13 is the starting point for a new eu objective : to combat discrimination or inequality in the treatment of citizens for the reasons listed therein .
the action programme seems to me to be a serious programme .
i therefore consider that it is necessary to commit the public and private sectors to this task and , to this end , i believe that the public sector must provide an example .
finally , ladies and gentlemen , the media must also play an important role in this task .
it is incredibly important that we should now secure implementation of the package which is the first and interim realisation of article 13 of the ec treaty .
in that way , we should be taking an important step towards removing discrimination against minorities in the eu and the applicant countries .
this fight against discrimination is a fight that mobilises us all and it cannot be an exclusive banner for any political group in this parliament .
article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam threw up a challenge for the european union agenda , which gave the community specific powers to initiate a variety of actions to combat discrimination , so as to ensure the same level of protection for all disadvantaged groups .
i should like to congratulate the commission on the important step it has taken in initiating this process of implementing article 13 through the package of proposals that it has presented to combat discrimination .
experience has also shown us that the promotion of anti-discrimination legislation is essential but it is not enough .
i should also like to stress the importance of involving the countries applying for membership as much as we can in these community actions to combat discrimination .
given the large number of discriminatory actions , decisions and attitudes which still appear today in europe , i am pleased with these reports which we are debating today and which contain certain points which i feel to be particularly noteworthy .
firstly , we must insist on the need to bear in mind , when implementing the concrete actions of this programme , article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam , which is the pivotal instrument in the fight against discrimination in the european union .
secondly , we must highlight the particular discrimination suffered by certain social groups , women , the disabled , immigrants , homosexual men and women , the elderly and ethnic minorities and , within these groups , we must insist on the importance of monitoring and implementing concrete measures in the fight against cases of multiple or double discrimination , which occur especially in the case of women .
we therefore have to stress the need to integrate the gender element into all areas of the fight against discrimination and , in parallel , i wish to ask the commission to make a clear and decisive effort to achieve coherence between the directives , recommendations and programmes against discrimination , giving this house a leading role in the establishment of priorities , the carrying out of an assessment of the effectiveness of the actions proposed today in this programme and the revision , if necessary , of the actions and decisions taken within this action programme .
lastly , the european parliament must be kept informed , taking account of the reports and opinions produced by this house , and we must highlight the importance and necessity of truly making use of the opinion and participation of the ngos and associations - and providing them with the necessary resources - since they are without doubt the key to the success of the measures adopted .
mr president , discrimination on religious grounds is as unacceptable as any other form of discrimination .
a spiritual dimension is vital to europe .
ladies and gentlemen , at the time of the discussions regarding the treaty of amsterdam , we were delighted , myself in particular , at the inclusion of article 13 on discrimination on the basis of sex , race or ethnic origin , religion or philosophical convictions - non sectarian , i might add - handicap in any form , age or sexual orientation .
these proposals involve two draft directives and one action programme intended to support the efforts of the member states .
it is extremely difficult , of course , both for me and for my fellow members , to give a precise opinion on measures of such great significance in just two minutes .
as regards the mann report on equal treatment in employment , and let me congratulate the rapporteur , i shall confine myself to pointing out that i am , personally , satisfied that it has been possible to reduce the number of permissible exemptions to a minimum .
mr president , the right to equal treatment and protection against discrimination is one of the fundamental human rights .
i am aware that there are also arguments in favour of guaranteeing european legislation for equal treatment within one market .
mr president , the draft council decision establishing a community action programme to combat discrimination initiates the process of implementing article 13 .
the family , for instance , remains a foundation and a pillar of our society .
among the most severely disabled , unemployment stood at 70 per cent .
this type of legislation is therefore needed , and often it is only minor measures that are required .
the debate in parliament was extremely interesting , and you have already highlighted the political importance of this directive .
i would also like to thank the committees involved for their support and cooperation in getting a coordinated view in such a short time .
it is important that the community action programme is adopted by the council this autumn so that we can avoid a gap between it and the preparatory actions which we are currently running .
prevention is the key to a long-term strategy .
i am aware of the difficulties and of the complication of the forms of these projects and i will try to simplify them .
i can also agree to highlight in future the importance of ngos , both as partners and as target actors participating in the actions themselves .
it will be important to involve as wide a range of types and sizes of ngos as possible to make sure that we benefit from the experience of these people who work every day with these issues .
i can accept your proposals to write into the body of the decision the limit of 90 % for the co-funding of such ngos , and we can justify this proposal because there are many particularities in these ngos .
in short , therefore , i can accept either as drafted or in spirit amendments nos 1 , 2 , 7 , 8 , 10 , 11 , 13 , 18 , 21 , 41 to 45 , 47 , 50 , 58 , 59 , 62 , 64 , 65 , 66 and 67 .
i can also accept parts of amendments nos 3 , 14 , 16 , 31 , 33 , 35 , 38 , 40 , 55 and 57 .
others risk creating an imbalance in programmes by an over-concentration on a particular aspect ; others again are not necessary to achieve parliament 's objective , as the ideas are either implicitly or explicitly already included in the decision , such as those on drawing on the experience of third countries .
the first one concerns disability , religion and age .
as far as the first category is concerned , disability , religion and age , the specific problems facing disabled people are acknowledged in the current draft where the provision to reasonably accommodate the workplace to the needs of disabled people is specifically foreseen .
this is a key provision for achieving equal treatment for people with disabilities .
your proposal is very useful , as discussions in the different institutions have shown that these terms were not fully understood .
now it has become clear that a number of factors such as the cost involved , the financial resources of the organisations and the possibility of obtaining public funds will determine if their accommodation would impose a considerable burden on the employer .
another key issue concerns religious organisations and the possibility of using the genuine occupation requirement clause in article 4 ( 2 ) .
i welcome your reference to this question in amendment no 37 .
i can also agree to the idea of extending the wording of article 4 ( 2 ) to include organisations providing services in a religious environment , as we realise that the wording of the commission 's proposal was very rigid .
the commission 's intention is to create workable rules for companies while at the same time prohibiting instances of discrimination which are arbitrary and not objectively justified .
however , i understand that this is a very sensitive issue .
the commission is ready to simplify the wording of article 5 for better understanding of this provision .
regarding the second category of amendments , it aims to clarify the text of the commission 's proposal .
in particular , amendments nos 9 , 10 and 20 propose the removal of the reference to discrimination based on racial and ethnic origin .
these references are contained in amendments nos 7 , 8 , 9 , 12 , 34 and 47 .
the commission can accept the spirit of all these amendments .
i would like to refer in detail to those amendments which i cannot accept because they present political or legal difficulties .
this kind of provision is not appropriate in a directive on a framework proposal .
we all know that this is very important , but i must stress that in some member states the collection of this kind of data infringes constitutional provisions on the protection of privacy .
i cannot accept your references in amendments nos 21 and 45 to natural and legal persons and non-formalised groups of persons , as this employment proposal only applies to individuals .
you propose in amendment no 52 , by analogy with the directive on racial discrimination , to incorporate a provision on independent bodies to monitor compliance with the provision of the directive .
i also have difficulties with amendments nos 19 and 35 , in which you propose a time-frame of three years in order to equalise the scope of the discrimination legislation for all the grounds referred to in article 3 .
it is impossible to refer to this time-frame in a directive , but the implementation of the action plan will help us to see how we can move forward with the other amendments .
to summarise , i can accept , either as drafted or in spirit , amendments nos 2 , 4 , 5 , 8 , 10 , 12 , 14 , 23 , 24 , 26 , 30 , 34 , 40 , 49 , 50 , 51 and 54 and also parts of amendments nos 7 , 9 , 13 , 20 , 25 , 29 , 36 , 37 , 41 , 42 , 46 , 47 , 48 , 58 , 59 , 60 and 61 .
this very large number of accepted amendments proves the excellent cooperation between the commission and parliament .
in conclusion , some members of parliament referred to the need for cooperation about , or the implementation of , directives like these in the applicant countries .
this directive must be part of the social acquis in the applicant countries .
it is the first time that we allow joint projects in this action programme .
applicant countries can cooperate with the member states and submit joint projects and joint proposals and this is very important for them and for us also .
some of the members have referred to the particular problems that turkey has with the kurdish language and the problems in turkey .
i consider that the community could support and select any kind of project that the turkish government submitted in the framework of this action plan .
i had to reply to more than 50 different points and amendments and i am very optimistic that these amendments will be adopted during the french presidency .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon .
yet we have a code , thanks largely to the initiative of the british foreign secretary , robin cook , proof once again that where parliament leads today , the council will eventually follow .
yet it is clear from the annual report that it has worked better than all expectations , including those of the member state governments who approached this project with great suspicion .
the code of conduct has led to greater mutual understanding , greater transparency and a greater convergence of member states ' policies .
effective and coherent eu policy on arms exports is essential if the eu is to pursue its external objectives , particularly given that we have so many areas of instability on our borders .
you cannot seriously pursue conflict prevention and peacemaking without controlling arms exports , particularly small arms .
the council annual report itself identified the need for a common list of military equipment to be established .
the code , however , is only a political commitment between member states .
article 7 of the code commits member states to prevent exports being diverted to undesirable end users .
they should be better coordinated and more effective .
it is clear that many weapons find themselves in the wrong hands because of the activity of arms brokers .
i was stunned recently to discover that there are up to 300 arms brokers in the south-east of england alone .
lastly , the greatest safeguard against abuse of arms exports is transparency .
the annual report is a large step forward but its transparency depends on the transparency of the national reports which it is created from .
since 1997 my own government has published annual reports on arms exports which have been praised for their transparency .
i still feel that this must be our approach , that we must not give in before the inevitability of war and conflict and that the defence policy must not provide for large-scale arms production , but that europe must adopt an defence policy of intervention where it is not weapons that count but the ability to intervene peacefully in order to find non-violent solutions to disputes .
mr president , commissioner , in taking the floor on the extremely difficult subject of arms sales , i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the manner in which he has managed to clarify matters for parliament in the outstanding and comprehensive explanatory statement in the motion for a resolution which is being discussed today and which will be voted on tomorrow in this house .
this statement focuses on the fear shared by the majority of our fellow members , that arms of all kinds manufactured by the european union may , if exports are not effectively controlled , be used by countries or armed groups that do not respect international law or human dignity .
since this dream , as you rightly termed it , mrs morgantini , still remains today in the realms of utopia , as i fear it will for a long time to come , we should , as proposed , highlight instead the positive results that have already been obtained by applying the code of conduct and propose all the measures that are desirable and applicable in order to improve the efficiency of this method .
the pse group sees this as a good start but a code is no law .
we continue to strive for legislation which is more binding and more up to date , in view of the developments within the arms market and in the arms industry .
having said this , i would naturally like to congratulate the rapporteur , mr titley on his excellent report .
this requires more cooperation in the field of arms production and arms export .
we feel we should continue to work on this code and ensure that it can lead to a common arms export policy in due course .
the proliferation of light weapons remains disconcerting , even close to home , in the balkans , for example .
in a sense , these arms have come to symbolise anarchy in many areas worldwide .
it is only by complementary action such as this that we can move towards a more sustainable security in europe and the world , one that is founded on disarmament and stability .
sweden participates actively , too actively i am inclined to say , in the development of a common weapons policy , but that is something different .
unfortunately , practice has shown that these are often countries which should not be supplied with arms in the interests of conflict prevention .
think of the warring parties in congo and countries in the middle east .
a useful addition to mr titley ' s practical proposals could perhaps be the introduction of a licensing system to finance the trade in weapons used in war , as well as to settle arms deals .
monitoring the money circuit is bound to make it more difficult to avoid arms trade regulations .
indeed , as esdp becomes operational , issues such as arms exports must be seen as forming part of a comprehensive approach .
our aim must be coherence and that i take to be a very important underlying message in the report .
the eu code of conduct establishes a set of detailed principles governing conventional arms exports .
these aim at preventing the export of weapons to governments which abuse human rights , to areas of conflict or to regions engaged in arms races .
it is clear that the ultimate responsibility for arms exports belongs to national governments .
the code has been in existence for one year and , as acknowledged in the first annual report , member states ' initial experiences of its operation during this period were positive .
a few weeks after the adoption of the code , the associated countries of central and eastern europe and cyprus plus iceland and norway issued a declaration aligning themselves with the criteria and principles in the code .
since then many of those countries have made considerable efforts to comply with the code .
the european union is committed to combating the destabilising accumulation of small arms in many parts of the world .
the commission , in close collaboration with the member states , was actively involved in the drafting of the european union joint action on small arms and light weapons .
we fully intend to strengthen policy in this area as part of a coherent approach .
we are committed to providing financial and technical assistance to countries , international organisations , regional arrangements and ngos , as proposed by the joint action .
under the eu project in cambodia , technical , administrative and financial support is provided to the government and to selected ngos for actions aimed at promoting the control , collection and destruction of weapons .
the european union is currently considering the continuation of the project beyond its expiry date in november of this year .
these could result in politically or legally binding instruments and a comprehensive international programme of action for the small arms problem .
the point i believe is to see our efforts in this regard as part of a comprehensive approach to arms policy in general and as part of the overall endeavour to make esdp coherent .
it proposes guidelines for future union research activities , for the period 2002-2006 , and more especially for the union 's future research framework programme .
the aim is to define the specific contribution that this will make to the creation of a european research area .
the initial results will be presented to the european council meeting scheduled for next march , which aims to address general economic and social issues .
but it is clear that the union 's research framework programme also has a more specific role to play .
the guidelines set out in the communication adopted this morning have been defined with this in mind , on the basis , in particular , of the conclusions of the report on the five-year assessment of research programmes , drawn up by a panel of independent experts , and the mid-term review of the fifth research framework programme , carried out by the commission .
a real concentration of efforts in areas where action at community level will generate a plus : that of european added value .
the introduction of types of intervention of longer duration ; half-way houses between support for projects and institutional financing , the use of the variable geometry instruments available under the treaty , and , more specifically , european union participation in national programmes , as provided for in article 169 of the treaty .
in tangible terms , there is , among other things , a proposal to have recourse to formulae such as the networking of national programmes through support for the mutual opening-up of programmes and , above all , european union participation in programmes carried out in a coordinated fashion ; the creation of european networks of excellence by networking existing capacities in the member states around joint programmes of activities ; the carrying out of large targeted research projects conducted by consortia of companies , universities and research centres , on the basis of overall financing plans ; greater backing for regional and national efforts in support of innovation and research conducted by small- and medium-sized companies ; reinforcing and diversifying action in support of research infrastructures of european interest ; the increasing and diversification of mobility grants and , in general terms , measures in the field of human resources .
these new methods of intervention are the result of new methods of management .
the guideline document adopted today is designed to trigger debate immediately , beginning with debate within the institutions .
on the basis of the outcome of this debate , the commission will present its formal proposals for the research framework programme for 2002-2006 , next february .
these proposals will become part of a series of specific communications , each of which represents a contribution to the establishment of a european research area .
this is the discussion on criteria that we will be having with the member states , of course , and also with parliament .
it has an important role to play .
you are well aware of the need to centre the actions of the joint research centre on areas in which it can fulfil this role of european added value , by virtue of the fact that it does not depend on the private sector and is independent of the member states .
this is a very striking example of what we have achieved in this area .
with regard to the actions that we propose , page 16 of the policy paper sets out the new ways in which we are thinking of working , with greater decentralisation towards associations and towards national structures .
the mobility group has been set up at commission level , with the various member states , and is to hold its first meeting on 20 october .
this group consists of the representatives of research ministers , but also actual ministers for social affairs and home affairs , to overcome obstacles to mobility , such as problems concerning pensions and freedom of movement on european territory .
in a resolution quoted by yourself , which was adopted in this parliament on 18 may and for which i was rapporteur , i recommended multi-disciplinary teams for research , since innovations often occur on the cutting edge of different disciplines .
i would also like to ask you to award particular attention to the relations between the stoa unit and matters that concern your directorate for which you have responsibility , because problems exist in this regard .
i feel that what is currently required is something that structures the european research area , which is to say something that goes beyond the framework programme and supplements national programmes ; we need a structuring element , which means that we have to agree on certain rules .
yes , with an opening-up of the national programmes of several member states onto an area with european added value , the commission and the union can intervene .
but they must intervene by applying criteria that facilitate access which is as broad as possible for all the elements of the european union , which is to say for all the member states , and even for third countries too .
we have never made use of article 169 of the treaty ; this article could be used to harness more frequently and more cohesively the activities of the various member states .
the third paragraph of page 9 of the document reads as follows : " need to combine complementary expertise in the different countries , particularly in the case of interdisciplinary issues , and to carry out comparative studies on a european scale " .
in many fields , it is immediately apparent that certain basic research elements are , in fact , applied research elements .
the current framework programmes are therefore a mixture of basic research issues and applied research issues .
as concerns discussions with the stoa unit , i feel that we have to act together , since this is something that concerns this house , the joint research centre and the technological foresight institutes in the various member states .
i would therefore welcome any form of debate or discussion on this issue .
as concerns the euro-mediterranean context more specifically , i believe that you too will have noted the interest shown by the countries on both sides of the mediterranean in conducting joint research and technological development activities .
i , for my part , believe that these are key factors for increasing understanding among researchers and their mobility around the mediterranean basin .
in any case , these were the conclusions that the ministers for research and science reached on this subject at capri last weekend .
you will have three examples of this in the policy paper , and i hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss this matter again soon .
if i am unable to give you an immediate reply on this today , it is because it was precisely my intention , in this policy paper , to invite the member states to adopt a position , for there will never be a european research area if it stems solely from the will of the commission .
the commission and the framework programme only account for 5 % of research-related public expenditure .
there can therefore be no talk of a european research area if we are only responsible for 5 % of that research .
we are going to draft a communication on this subject .
i indeed feel that , in europe , research and development must be conducted with the citizens .
there is a whole series of avenues that must be explored in the field of social and economic research , in the fields of foodstuffs , new technologies and , in particular , biotechnologies .
in any case , the type of research that could be labelled ' disinterested ' , which is to say research that has no commercial goal , is often the type of research that produces the best results in economic and basic terms .
your question is very relevant , but we will have to wait to see what happens in practice .
much targeted research has a highly prominent commercial aspect , but there are also more basic forms of research which serve general european union policies and , at times , also have beneficial spin-offs for commercial interests .
this is therefore a bottom-up operation to be carried out not with hyper-centres , but with different teams working as part of a network .
thank you very much , mr busquin .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0540 / 2000 ) .
given that the amendments to the rules governing this fund have been extremely limited in scope ( unlike those affecting the structural funds ) , how can the commission justify the fact that the rate of implementation for the first half of 2000 is lower than 1 % ?
in the case of portugal , mrs torres marques , but above all in the case of greece , the number of projects received does not give me the same cause to hope for a satisfactory implementation of appropriations .
it is my responsibility to manage as rigorously and as actively as possible the european union ' s second largest budget , that for regional policy and the cohesion fund .
on the one hand , as a result of the efforts made to commit all the appropriations at the end of 1999 , there was inevitably a very sharp drop in applications for the financing of new projects at the beginning of this financial year .
on the other hand , as this is the first year of the new programming period , i have to say , and this is an objective assessment , that the cohesion fund countries , including your own , have centred their efforts on objective 1 programming .
otherwise , there will be a risk of certain cohesion fund appropriations made for the financial year 2000 being lost for ever .
you know that this fund has always been very well managed by the four countries and has always had 100 % take-up rates .
now , i also have some concerns in this area , some of which concern objective 2 , objective 1 and cohesion fund appropriations that date some way back .
i am simply observing , and i have given you the figures as at 26 september , that the appropriations actually committed by portugal , for the new period - i have only been a member of the commission for a year - stand at 2.6 % .
we will validate the technical content of these projects as swiftly as possible so that your country , like the other cohesion fund countries , is not made to suffer and is able to benefit from all the appropriations in question .
i provided all this information to the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism on 11 september , but , if you really wanted , i could arrange for this information to be transmitted to you this evening or tomorrow , in the form that it was submitted , in all transparency , to the competent committee on 11 september , under a month ago , for all the countries concerned .
because , once again , the general regulation treats the structural funds ( objectives 1 and 2 ) and the cohesion fund differently , and because , if i were forced to , i could not enter into reprogramming in the case of the cohesion fund .
in overall terms we had , as at 26 september , committed 17.6 % of the cohesion fund appropriations .
question no 2 by ( h-0730 / 00 ) : subject : fuel duty the current level of fuel duty in the united kingdom is very substantially in excess of that prevailing in any other member state .
this has a severely distorting effect on competition as between small and medium-sized undertakings in these localities and multinational or other large-scale undertakings operating throughout the united kingdom , as between tourist industries in these localities and hotel chains concentrated in large centres nearer to mainland europe , such as london , and as between farmers and fishermen in remote parts and farmers and fishermen more advantageously located .
however , this proposal instead met with heavy protest from certain member states .
in 1989 , the commission submitted a new proposal which was to offer more flexibility .
i would thus like to underline that the community minimum rates have not been reviewed since 1992 and that today , in practice , duty levels often far exceed the community minimum rates and also differ greatly from country to country .
as the honourable member pointed out , the duty on fuel and diesel used as motor fuel which applies in the united kingdom is the highest in europe , but duties on fuel oil and kerosene , at least if - and insofar as - these are used for industrial and commercial purposes or even for heating , remain far below the highest values applicable within the union , as is also the case with the duty on heavy fuel oil .
it is thus a mixed bag and it is not the case that all duties on mineral oils are higher in the united kingdom than elsewhere in europe .
for example , there is a company on the island of north uist which is engaged in quarrying and road maintenance .
it is good for employment and for social cohesion .
mr president , i would say to mr maccormick that the commission has no means of influencing the level of excise taxes for mineral oil products in member states .
i want to be clear and insist on this point , because , as i said in my answer in the first instance , the commission has made several attempts to get member states to agree to the harmonisation of excise taxes precisely to avoid distortions in trade which may arise as a result of the differences therein .
these derogations stem from article 8 ( 4 ) of directive 92 / 81 of the european union and are approximately 100 in number .
in the course of this examination , the commission will also answer the question of whether such derogations are an infringement of the treaty rules on state aid , because obviously a derogation may border upon fiscal state aid and if there is an overlap , there may be a case for the commission to take action .
excise duty is absolutely identical in all parts of the united kingdom .
for example , nuclear energy is a very clear case in point .
kyoto is important .
i should like to say to mr purvis that the matter of natural , regional disadvantages is probably a matter for the national governments since a part of their electorate lies in those outlying areas and peripheral regions .
question no 3 by ( h-0743 / 00 ) : subject : budget line for minority languages the budget line of the european union for minority languages was introduced in 1983 and increased steadily to reach a peak in 1995 with eur 4 million .
this is all the more surprising in that the european union is moving closer towards enlargement to the east and the question of minorities is becoming increasingly important as a result , particularly in the context of a proper exchange of information .
furthermore , activities hitherto - for example , the creation of an online network for regional and minority languages , operated by the european bureau for lesser-used languages and the three mercator centres - have had a very positive response .
the commission has not entered in the budget any specific appropriations for the financing of projects directly intended to promote regional or minority languages , for reasons that i will now attempt to explain .
the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 between parliament , the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure specifies that appropriations relating to activities with no legal basis - as with the case in point - for projects concerning the promotion and safeguarding of regional and minority languages and cultures , may be entered in the budget for only three financial years at the most , and on condition that the establishment of a legal basis for them is subsequently envisaged .
for example , preparatory activities designed to encourage the use of digital content on worldwide networks in order to promote linguistic diversity in the information society - culture 2000 , media - insofar as the projects proposed contribute to the achievement of the objectives of these actions .
christoph pan entitled " volksgruppen in europa - ein handbuch " [ nations in europe - a handbook ] , which listed some 60 minority groups in the european union , 300 in the continent of europe .
out of a total of 750 million inhabitants , 100 million belong to minority groups .
as the author is not present , question no 4 lapses .
question no 5 by ( h-0762 / 00 ) : subject : campaign against child sex tourism since 1998 ecpat sweden has been running a project for a code of conduct for tour operators against child sex tourism with a view to persuading tour operators to undertake to eliminate demand for this type of tourism .
the commission agrees on the importance of the fight against child sex tourism .
the commission will pursue its actions to protect human dignity by preventing and combating violence against children , including child sex tourism , in the field of cooperation in justice and home affairs .
in the past the commission 's executive tasks have increased while its political and legislative work has decreased in relative terms .
in particular activities financed by small budget lines will be reduced because they are very intensive in terms of human resources .
the sex tourism information and awareness campaigns have had an important role to play .
discontinuing support for the information campaign does not , however , mean that the commission will abandon its other activities to protect children against violence and abuse , notably the stop programme .
the commission is preparing a proposal to renew the programme later this year and child sex tourism will be one of its concerns .
the commission is also preparing legislative proposals on the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography in accordance with the conclusions of the tampere european council .
nevertheless the commission will , in close collaboration with the member states , continue to play an active role in developing and maintaining a coherent european policy to protect children against violence .
thirdly , each presidency must clearly have its own programme .
i hope that we can find a solution in conjunction with the wto and in such a way that the three remaining months of this year may be sufficient for activating this budget line .
indeed many smes are still not fully aware of the implications of the changeover for their businesses , particularly as regards the legal tax and accounting rules and their software .
the commission and member states are currently stepping up their efforts to provide information to remedy this situation .
mr president , what interests me most is how the euro-debate will go on from here , after the referendum in denmark , and what changes the commission intends to make to the information strategy ?
mr president , very briefly , 11 countries have accepted the euro .
as the author is not present , question no 7 lapses .
question no 8 by ( h-0724 / 00 ) : subject : foodstuffs hygiene and hunting the commission has recently submitted proposals concerning foodstuffs hygiene , com ( 2000 ) 438 .
mr president , the proposal on food hygiene referred to by the member in question is a consolidation and simplification of the existing set of hygiene rules contained in 17 different directives .
these include directive 92 / 45 of 16 june 1992 on public and animal health problems relating to the killing of wild game and the placing on the market of wild-game meat which already lays down a number of hygiene rules with respect to wild game .
with the new proposal , the existing food hygiene rules have been simplified .
already at present there is an obligation in finland to present moose that is shot and sold to restaurants for inspection by the competent authority and some member states already apply the rules as proposed .
mr president , i should like to thank the commissioner for his answer , and i have a supplementary question .
the fact is that elk hunting is extremely widespread in sweden and finland .
question no 9 by ( h-0738 / 00 ) : subject : live animal transports a new commission report on a mission that it carried out in france in november 1999 and a recent investigation in italy by compassion in world farming and animal angels , show that several member states are still not properly enforcing council directive 91 / 628 / eec on the protection of animals during transport ( as amended by 95 / 29 / ec ) .
i share the concern that has been expressed that rules on the transport of animals are not being sufficiently enforced in certain areas .
while member states are responsible for the day-to-day enforcement of community legislation , the food and veterinary office of my directorate-general undertakes specific control and inspection missions to check that member states apply community legislation in an effective and uniform manner .
the competent authorities of the place of departure must check in particular that completed route plans have been returned and verify that the journeys have been carried out according to the plans .
the commission is currently monitoring the situation in both cases .
if it appears that a member state repeatedly fails to enforce community legislation , the commission would consider opening an infringement procedure under article 226 , as has already been initiated against other member states in relation to the protection of animals during transport .
i will present a report on the implementation in the member states of the community legislation on the protection of animals during transport to the council and to the european parliament .
when this report has been concluded , i intend to present proposals to improve the transport of animals and the problem of insufficient enforcement of the travelling time limits will be addressed .
i want to ask in particular about the border post of gorica between slovenia and italy .
as i indicated , the commission is currently working on a report on the operation of an animal transport directive in the member states .
question no 10 by ( h-0755 / 00 ) : subject : adverse effects of imports of genetically modified seeds on cotton cultivation imports of cotton seeds contaminated with small quantities of genetically modified seeds originating chiefly from the usa have caused serious problems for cotton growing in greece and will have adverse long-term consequences .
these problems have arisen because the eu and the greek government have deliberately neglected to set up the necessary community or national legal framework to prevent imports of seeds and propagating material contaminated with genetically modified organisms from third countries .
since the above omission has still not be rectified , despite the adverse consequences it has caused , will the commission say what measures the eu intends to take to prevent imports of seeds and propagating material contaminated with genetically modified organisms in future ?
under the current council directive 92 / 20 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms , products containing or consisting of gmos may not be placed on the market unless consent has been given under the provisions of this particular directive .
although this is not yet reflected in the relevant community seeds legislation , this principle would apply also to those seed lots of conventional plant varieties of the different genera and species , including cotton , which contain impurities of eu-unapproved genetically modified seeds .
the commission white paper on food safety has foreseen the need to amend the annexes of the existing directives on the marketing of seeds in order to first of all lay down the growing conditions and other requirements for purity concerning the adventitious presence of genetically modified seeds in seed lots of traditional plant varieties and secondly to lay down the details of the labelling requirements for seed of genetically modified plants .
the commission services are currently preparing a draft commission directive covering these issues and including cotton seed .
under this plan the member states would immediately organise testing of a significant number of seed lots of conventional varieties to determine the presence of gm seeds until the coming into force of related new community legislative measures .
i am pleased to report the standing veterinary committee responsible for seeds held a number of meetings in june , july and september on this particular issue with a view to reaching an interim agreement between member states as to how to deal with this kind of situation , pending the enactment of the legislation that i referred to .
however , having consulted with his services , i am in a position to inform you that essential safety requirements concerning computer equipment to be used privately or in the working place are prescribed by a directive relating to electrical products , the low voltage directive , as well as by the directive on radio equipment and telecommunication terminals .
there are also some safety requirements for eye protection at work in the directive on the safety in the workplace but none yet for private use .
the general product safety also puts an obligation on producers to provide consumers with information on risks .
for the more general question on the follow-up by member states to the council resolution on operating instructions for technical consumer goods , it should be noted that this resolution is addressed to member states and to the economic operators and does not involve any specific follow-up by the commission .
from a logical point of view i entirely agree.the difficulty in this issue is that the commission and the european institutions have far greater powers in legislation governing the workplace than in , for instance , legislation governing private homes .
the answer to your question is that the commission 's powers do not extend that far .
maryam ayubi 's case is extremely disturbing .
as the honourable member knows , iran 's penal code is based on islamic sharia law .
in february 2000 , the european union asked iran to introduced a moratorium on the death penalty in the wake of death penalties handed down against four student leaders .
the commission is very concerned at the poor human rights record in iran in general .
the recent parliamentary election in iran will we hope offer an opportunity to develop a more productive dialogue on human rights with the iranian government .
in doing this we will regularly review the progress of reform in iran including in the field of human rights .
consultations are continuing to determine the european union 's position which will of course reflect our deep concerns regarding the situation in iran .
if maryam did not live in a theocratic regime she would be free , she could enjoy the right to life , but as she lives in iran , she will be stoned to death .
we should do that bilaterally with the iranian government and , where appropriate , in international fora and we should certainly give every encouragement to those more moderate elements in countries like iran who believe , as the honourable member and i do , that human rights are universally valid and not some colonial implant .
question no 14 by ( h-0745 / 00 ) : subject : burma aung san suu kyi , the opposition leader and nobel prize winner , has ended up under what amounts to house arrest , and all contact with outsiders has been forbidden by the country ' s military rulers .
i join with the honourable member in expressing my admiration of aung san suu kyi and her fellow members of the nld .
today aung san suu kyi is now under de facto house arrest .
i am particularly concerned by reports that party members , waiting with aung san suu kyi at rangoon station two weeks ago , were attacked and even chloroformed before being evicted from the station premises .
the commission remains convinced that a lasting solution to the current situation must be based on agreement between the regime , the democratically elected opposition and the representatives of the ethnic minorities .
aung san suu kyi has long pressed for such a dialogue .
the eu 's attitude towards that ministerial meeting in vientiane and indeed , whether it should take place at all , or at what level the eu should be represented at it , will depend on developments in burma between now and december .
we will be watching developments closely but we should also be clear that the december meeting is about the eu 's political relations with asean as a whole .
we are determined not to let the behaviour of the regime in rangoon prevent us from developing our relations with the other nine members of asean .
if the european union is not prepared to call for economic sanctions then why not , for instance , suggest that the spdc should be challenged in the un and its legitimacy as the government of burma challenged in the un general assembly ?
as the honourable member knows , we have taken a number of tough measures in relation to the regime covering issues like visas and assets .
speaking for myself , though i have always wanted to go to burma and particularly to see bagan , i would not dream of going to burma in the present circumstances and i would advise other people similarly .
when it comes to the overall question of trade and investment , i will be absolutely candid with the honourable member about my assessment and about my concern .
my assessment is that the main reason why there is not more investment in burma is the policies pursued by the regime there .
one last point .
i think it is very important that the asean countries themselves put pressure on burma .
there are many living in wretched conditions outside the country in refugee camps and others living in wretched conditions within the country .
question no 15 by ( h-0769 / 00 ) : subject : democracy in kosovo what is the commission ' s view of the local elections in kosovo and the development of the various democratic forces in the run-up to them , and what are the region ' s medium- and long-term political prospects ?
mr president , the commission fully supports the decision of the un secretary general 's special representative for kosovo , bernard kouchner , to hold the kosovo municipal elections on 28 october and the efforts of the un mission in kosovo , unmik , to organise these elections .
within the un mission , osce pillar iii of unmik has lead responsibility for the elections .
eu member states provide the bulk of the osce budget , and the european commission has also provided eur 5 million for equipment for the registration process .
the european commission has full confidence in the ability of unmik to implement the results of the municipal elections in the short and medium term .
the elections are an important step in involving the people of kosovo in the running of their own communities .
as for elections beyond those for the municipalities , we must take one step at a time and ensure that the elections for the municipal administration are properly conducted and involve the people of kosovo more in managing their own affairs .
one thing we can all be certain of is that the electoral process in kosovo will be fair , unlike the electoral process in serbia .
the osce is responsible within unmik for the election organisation and for the sort of issues which the honourable member referred to .
maybe they do not yet have decorous televised debates with jim lehrer , with everybody avoiding being rude about one another , but they certainly have started their election campaign with a good deal of brio .
i happened to be there together with 200 other election observers from 52 countries .
as regards kosovo , it would have been better had it taken part in these elections , which were simultaneously presidential , parliamentary , regional and municipal elections .
questions 16 to 44 will be replied to in writing . ( the sitting was suspended at 7.45 p.m .
and resumed at 9.00 p.m. ) arms trade code of conduct ( continuation ) the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report ( a5 0211 / 2000 ) by mr titley , on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , on the code of conduct on arms exports .
as many of us said at the time in 1998 , we saw the code of conduct as a very important first step towards having common and responsible arms export policies .
it is important to recognise that , at a time when our european concerns can seem somewhat abstract and rhetorical , controlling weapons is a real way in which member states ' governments , the commission and parliament can demonstrate the positive benefits of being able to work together here for a common approach to arms control .
it is important to develop ways in which eu candidate countries can be brought into the information exchange and into consultation mechanisms .
candidate countries should also be involved in discussions on the further development and strengthening of the code .
the acid test of the code will be whether it deters undercutting .
in a democratic europe we have a right to know which countries are selling arms and where .
finally , arms fuel conflicts all over the world .
we urge our governments in europe to tighten up the controls on the movements of these lethal weapons .
mr president , the european defence industry is important , but at least as important is world peace .
mr titley ' s report provides a balanced response to this recurring theme .
it argues in favour of better and stricter controls in the arms trade and greater transparency .
the globalisation of world trade makes arms cheaper , more readily available and more difficult to trace .
needless to say , a stricter code of conduct only makes sense if the member states assume their own share of the responsibility .
some will claim that the code of conduct is not ambitious enough , but it is better to have a code of conduct which is flawed than not to have one at all .
this code of conduct is a first step in the direction of greater coherence , but i share the rapporteur ' s hope that we will not leave it at that .
mr president , the real solution to the whole problem of arms exports and arms production is that we should convert to non-weapons production .
the technology and expertise that is available should be used for something constructive in society , something that will benefit people rather than something that is going to annihilate and destroy people .
countries with very few resources and very little money are coerced and forced into buying weapons when they should be using that money for social and health problems in their own countries instead of contributing to insecurity in the region and in many cases to the abuse of their own people with these weapons .
in northern ireland , where there is a so-called peace process one of the big companies that has come there and been welcomed with open arms is raytheon one of the biggest arms manufacturers in the world .
we place our hopes for a world without conflict and weapons in the universal , peaceful and , more generally , popular movement .
mr president , special attention deserves to be paid to the european parliament ' s first report on the export of arms since the member states adopted a code of conduct on this matter in 1998 .
the supervisory mechanism must above all be extended to the light , small calibre arms used in a great many regional and ethnic conflicts throughout the world , which are often turned against the civil and military personnel of eu countries .
mr president , i fully share the hope and the opinion of mrs morgantini and mr brie , whose first amendment clearly states that the union ' s aim must not merely be to establish a code of conduct on arms exports , but to work for international disarmament and to end the arms race altogether .
whatever the case , arms exports exist and it is therefore useful and it is a step forward to have a code of conduct on arms exports , which sometimes run counter to the principles that should be the identifying features of the european union : conflict prevention and the defence of human rights .
we should therefore take this opportunity to make the code more efficient and to ensure that our young soldiers engaged in peace missions do not have to confront , as they occasionally do , arms exported by the european union .
we have a situation in which the sale and manufacture of arms constitute a massive waste for humanity , a situation in which the market for this highly individual trade consists of present , future and potential wars of a kind which tear the world apart , and in which arms expenditure and local wars are an exacerbating factor in the underdevelopment of a large part of the planet , and yet the european parliament proposes to regulate , and lend moral legitimacy to , a trade that has no use for ethical codes and regulations .
the report even has the temerity to present arms exports as a means of preventing conflicts , combating poverty and promoting human rights .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
today 's debate marks an important step in the reform process that was initiated by the prodi commission just over one year ago .
it is the very first legislative proposal to be considered by this house as part of the reform package .
the proposal to separate the internal audit function from the ex ante financial control function flows directly from the recommendations formulated last year by the committee of independent experts , which parliament endorsed in my report of 19 january of this year .
in its first report the committee of independent experts stated that internal control and internal audit were entirely separate - even conflicting - activities , which do not belong in the same department .
they reached the conclusion that a priori control and internal auditing are activities which employ completely different techniques and address completely different concerns .
the arrangement whereby they have been kept together within the same dg should be reviewed .
with that aim in view , the human resources allocated to internal auditing should be greatly increased .
the court of auditors took the same view in 1997 , when it wrote that there was a latent conflict between the power to grant approval - and thus expenditure - and the responsibility for subsequently evaluating the same expenditure in accordance with the criteria for sound financial management .
the commission 's fast-track proposal seeks to implement the recommendation of the committee of independent experts by creating an internal auditor who operates separately and independently from the financial controller .
i have no doubt that its implementation will be one of the keys to the success of the reform package announced by vice-president kinnock in april .
the changes proposed by our committee are designed to clarify the commission 's text , to impose certain minimum reporting standards and to tailor the text more closely to the specific circumstances of the different european institutions , all of which are affected by any changes to the financial regulation .
first , the division of responsibilities between the financial controller and the new internal auditor must be clarified .
the financial regulation must also contain a job description .
our committee 's amendments seek to draw a clear distinction between the role of the financial controller who remains responsible for ex ante financial control , and the internal auditor , who is responsible for ex post control , and in particular reporting on the quality of management and control systems .
secondly , the commission 's proposal would have the effect of making the appointment of an internal auditor compulsory for all institutions .
while this makes sense for an institution with a large operational budget or those with a relatively large administrative budget , such as the european parliament and the council , it does not necessarily make sense for the other small institutions which have a financial control staff of no more than four .
while these institutions must have the option of appointing an internal auditor , it is sufficient to impose certain minimum audit requirements on the financial controller .
when the recasting of the financial regulation is completed , hopefully within one to two years , it must apply fully to all institutions .
some members of the committee have argued that the appointment of an internal auditor should be made compulsory for all institutions at this stage .
of course such a notion has superficial appeal , but if it leads to the appointment of at least 20 additional officials without a clear prospect of direct efficiency gains it should be resisted .
the third change to the commission 's proposals contained in my report is therefore the spelling out of a minimum reporting requirement .
one of the problems parliament has faced in recent years is a lack of standardised information on financial control from the institutions .
i therefore propose that both the financial controller and the internal auditor should produce annual reports detailing their activities .
finally , institutions must learn from each other instead of constantly reinventing the wheel .
my report proposes that the annual internal audit report produced in one institution should be made available to all other institutions to enable them where appropriate to apply the conclusions arrived at elsewhere to their own management and control systems .
parliament has not yet received the official text of the proposal but we have been able to see a preliminary version of the text and although i hope the full text will be forwarded to parliament soon i also understand the commission 's wish to ensure that the text is legally and linguistically watertight .
some in parliament have already referred to it as the " beast , " but it is going to be one of the most important items of legislation before us during the term of this parliament .
one of the key changes advocated by the commission is the abolition of the system of ex ante financial control .
we have therefore asked the commission to give us an undertaking that during the transitional period which is about to begin the system of centralised ex ante control will be maintained and will not be affected by the introduction of the internal audit function .
i would ask the commission to confirm today the undertaking it has already given parliament in relation to this point .
i would , however , like to make my personal point of view very clear .
as the committee of independent experts pointed out last year , most of the irregularities highlighted by the committee stem from decisions approved by the financial controller , that the supposed quality guarantee provided by the approval is a myth and put forward two strong arguments for changing the system .
the effort put into checking all transactions is clearly disproportionate , while sampling is unlikely to have sufficient deterrent effect .
the second and fundamental principle is that any retention of ex ante control runs up against the crucial objection that , de facto if not de jure , it displaces responsibility for financial regularity from the person actually managing expenditure to the person approving it .
although the court of auditors has never explicitly backed abolition of centralised ex ante financial control and we have yet to hear its views on the proposal at present before us , it has raised the possibility of moving to a different system .
in its 1997 opinion it wrote : " as for completely abolishing the requirement of prior approval , this would not be acceptable unless it were to be replaced by other procedures that provided at least equivalent safeguards and that could also involve financial officials other than the financial controller . " the commission 's challenge will be to convince parliament that it can create those safeguards .
it also means that ex ante control must still be required when the services request this .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the socialist group in this house supports mr van hulten ' s report and therefore also the unanimous decision and proposal from the committee on budgetary control .
so - nothing against an independent , internal audit service , to which we are giving the green light today with mr van hulten ' s report !
that is why i find it worrying that the commission is obviously still intending , as before , to introduce the new audit service not as a useful complementary service but as a substitute for the traditional financial control .
like several member states , i think there is still some doubt as to what this general reform will cost at the final count or what benefits it will produce .
i also believe that , as far as this is concerned , we need the advice from the european court of auditors .
we cannot make a decision until we have the proposal on the new financial regulations , and within the framework of the discussion on these new regulations , a number of aspects will need to be laid down definitively .
we will be backing all amendments which help clarify the division between financial control and internal audits , as currently proposed .
this may not be practical - it is indeed the case that only a few people deal with financial control in those institutions , but the principle that the person who gives ex ante approval also self-assesses after the event is wrong .
mr president , commissioner , mr van hulten ' s report was very broadly endorsed in the committee on budgetary control .
setting up an independent - and i emphasise the word independent - audit service is a step in the right direction and responds to parliament ' s requests in its january resolution on the reform of the commission .
the draft version of the reform of the financial regulation is still not available in all languages .
furthermore , the white paper states , quite unnecessarily , that at the end of the interim period , the council will be able to take into account whether or not the financial regulation has been approved .
we know what we want and it is the will of this parliament , but it is crucial that the transitional period should not be extended beyond what is strictly necessary .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the commission ' s great reform project as summarised in the white paper is primarily aimed at boosting efficiency , i.e. , at making a real improvement in financial management , covering in fact every aspect of the budget .
let me point out that we have already implemented a large number of these individual steps , be it in relation to workplace definition or to setting up a central financial service in the budgets directorate-general , to name only two important ones .
i personally will do my utmost to speed things up , so that parliament finally has this document in all the languages .
i really do appreciate the fact that mr van hulten made such personal efforts to find a good solution for this change to the financial regulation and thus to get this key component of the reform up and running .
that will not be the case , because we have decided - speaking only in terms of posts now - that 80 posts will be available for this ex ante control during the transitional period .
let me therefore thank you for your proposals and your opinions .
thank you very much , commissioner schreyer .
the debate is closed .
to this i would add two further observations : on the one hand , the number of minors with direct access to televisions and computers is constantly increasing and , on the other , there is a worrying increase in the broadcasting of violent images - portraying all possible types of violence - both in television programmes and over the internet .
i would also like to point out that article 22 , paragraph 2 of the directive explicitly specifies that all the member states must take appropriate measures to ensure that broadcasts by television broadcasters do not include any programmes which might impair the physical , mental or moral development of minors , in particular programmes that contain pornography or gratuitous violence .
however , in the light of these considerations , our task is to define the objectives which we can reasonably expect to achieve in order to be able to establish genuine , reliable protection for minors .
firstly , we must promote the development at national level of information and awareness-raising policies targeting families and the world of education in general .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , today we are debating a report that gave rise to much controversy when it was discussed in our committee , all sparked off by the term subsidiarity .
that is and remains mainly the task of member state legislation , although it certainly does not preclude a consensual agreement on certain basic values in a dialogue with all concerned at european level .
these questions are at the top of the agenda .
it is a question of the eu ' s political legitimacy in the eyes of the people - and time is rather pressing .
i entirely agree with the president of the commission about the need to prepare such a list along the lines of a constitution , and i am quite clear about the fact that the subsidiarity principle must be reinforced and that the eu must therefore refrain from making policy on the wide range of areas in which the political problems are not of a cross-border nature .
mr president , commissioner , our children access and use televised , printed and new media on a daily basis and as a matter of course .
these measures must not be restricted to television but must apply to all accessible media .
it happened on 17 september , close to home , in europe .
so when i hear some people stating in debates in committee that there is nothing to prove that television violence in all its forms may have a harmful influence upon children , i am , to put it mildly , surprised .
we are often alarmed at the television programmes our children watch .
the on-screen violence of all kinds to which children are subjected , whether it be on television or through the computer , has short- , medium- and long-term consequences .
with regard to the protection of minors in the media context , the definition of common criteria is therefore , of necessity , minimal , given the cultural , moral and social variations in our member states .
establishing minimum criteria is the very least the european union can do for its children .
the commission shares the view expressed in the report that cooperation between member states and the commission is essential if minors are to be better protected over the next few years .
the commission is also consulting the digital videobroadcasting group , or dvb , about the technical aspects of systems for protecting minors , particularly digital filters .
i should like to remind you that the commission has adopted an action plan designed to promote safer internet use and also to make users more aware of the problem .
i think too that , even if this public awareness campaign relates to the internet , it will also have a knock-on effect on television programmes .
in its report , parliament also invites the commission to encourage the creation of a think tank with the job of drawing up a memorandum containing the basic legal principles applied in the member states for the purpose of protecting minors in the media context .
the commission will respond to this invitation because , as you know , we are due to table the ' television without frontiers ' directive again in 2002 , with a view to testing the water .
i think it will be very important , in that context , to launch a broad debate on our society ' s responsibility where the media are concerned .
when i say society ' s responsibility , i am thinking not only of european governments but also of political responsibility at national level , the responsibility of media practitioners and the responsibility of parents and of society in general .
i am also very aware of the remarks made about education , about training in the interpretation of images and about making younger people more aware of the need to approach the media in a critical frame of mind and not to watch any old thing , at any time and in any way .
i would also say that the industry has already devised an international system of self-regulation called the internet content rating association , in which the commission participates .
where , finally , the protection of minors is concerned , i should like to point out that there is a council recommendation of 24 september on promoting national frameworks designed to ensure comparable and effective levels of protection of minors and of human dignity .
the objective of such a study will be to evaluate the effectiveness of the approach proposed , an approach based on the principles of self-regulation , and my officials have just set the work in motion and have sent a questionnaire out to the member states .
thank you very much , commissioner reding .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
evans , on behalf of the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport , on the proposal for a recommendation of the european parliament and of the council on mobility within the community for students , persons undergoing training , young volunteers , teachers and trainers ( com ( 1999 ) 708 - c5 0052 / 2000 - 2000 / 0021 ( cod ) ) .
mr president , this report covers a very important issue and one that has been prominent in my post bag for nearly six years .
they do not have the problems often associated with other age groups .
we have to ensure that the experiences of young people - students and others in the educational world - are positive .
nothing will be more damaging to their developing views , than if a report such as this fails to make progress or if it fails to deliver greater mobility or if it fails to at least start to demolish the barriers that confront educational mobility today .
since then , a great deal of work by my own staff , by parliament 's staff and indeed by the commission 's own staff , to all of whom i pay warm tribute , has presented us with what i thought , until today , was perhaps a worthy if not perfect report , certainly one that was satisfactory and would go some way to achieving my aims .
firstly , i understand that the commission now believes that all references to researchers to be outside the legal base as provided for under articles 149 and 150 .
specifically my report replaces the worthy international generalisations by , in effect , repatriating the decisions to the member states .
as with any parliament report , experience has shown that there is little chance of anything happening , or at best little possibility of uniformity across europe , if there is no monitoring .
for reasons which i understand , but which will have the effect of neutering the whole report , the commission will , i am led to believe , be rejecting amendments nos 46 to 51 .
commissioner , i say to you that without an action plan , without any indicators to see who is doing what , and how well they are doing , without assessment of progress , there will be so many discrepancies , so many complaints , so many letters in your post bag , so many students and teachers knocking at your door , and indeed so many meps lobbying you , that i suggest you will wish , even allowing for the constraints under which you work , that you had accepted the amendments i proposed and which i hope parliament will accept .
in conclusion , i was both pleased and flattered when this report was referred to by president chirac in his speech to parliament some weeks ago .
if the french presidency are now serious , then i suggest that council will have to work very hard to salvage both their and the commission 's reputation as a matter of urgency for i suggest the failure to endorse this report in its entirety will send all the wrong , and very confusing , messages to important groups of our society . , draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs . ( it ) mr president , as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on this proposal for a recommendation , i would like to express my satisfaction at the end document , which was the result of a joint effort by mr evans , mrs martens and myself .
i would draw attention , out of the amendments tabled , to the inclusion in this recommendation of the specific category of researchers , since this category was originally included in the green paper .
of all the petitions we receive , many relate either to mobility within the european union , and in particular that of students , researchers and persons undergoing training , or to the recognition of qualifications .
the commission needs to draw up a list of the problems encountered by european citizens , particularly with regard to the issues of freedom of residence and freedom of establishment and , most especially , with regard to their right to work , study and obtain recognition of their qualifications in other member states .
this list must be accompanied by practical measures such as the establishment of objectives to be achieved by the member states and the obligation on the latter to prepare periodic reports on the progress achieved .
student mobility would be improved if the periods of study completed in each member state , together with the qualifications and certificates acquired , were to be fully recognised within the european union .
the european commission should take ambitious initiatives designed , in the short term , to provide for the reciprocal recognition of academic qualifications between member states .
by responding to the problems of daily life , this european parliament and council recommendation should make it possible to bring europe closer to its citizens , in particular its youngest citizens who should be the forces involved in creating a european identity .
mr president , the 1996 green paper on mobility lists the obstacles to mobility .
it is about time that europe turned its attention once more to the sound implementation of programmes such as socrates and youth for europe .
it is thanks to these programmes that young people can come into contact with the thinking , the language and the culture of other countries .
in line with the 1996 green paper on mobility , this group should also benefit from the recommendations in this report .
as is apparent from the report by the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport , there are still many thresholds , and during my work visits in my country , i hear many complaints every time , not only about the obstacles to mobility , but also about the implementation level , the red-tape involved in applications , the number of bodies which carry out the same inspections and late payments .
the french presidency has prioritised improved mobility for this target group .
mr evans has done sterling work and thanks to sound cooperation , the culture committee approved the report on mobility unanimously last month .
this is a sign that the continuous obstacles to mobility which stand in the way of students , volunteers , university teachers and researchers should be swiftly removed .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , promoting the mobility of students , trainers and teachers is being seen as an ever more important part of the european strategy .
regarding our own problems in the education sector , we cannot steer away from the difficulties there are in approving study credits .
i am very glad that the rapporteur pays attention in his report to the opportunities for nationals of countries applying for membership to be included in the recommendations on mobility .
the most serious problems at present concern those coming from non-member countries .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to start by thanking mr evans and mr mantovani for their work .
commissioner , we call upon you to act incisively within the commission on this unresolved matter , so that , in full respect for national powers and sovereignty , we will indeed be able to talk of a europe of peoples , a europe of citizens , but also a europe of culture .
mr president , i would like to join my colleagues in thanking the rapporteur for the tremendous work which he has done on this report and also to congratulate the members of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on petitions who have drafted opinions .
this is a very sensitive subject because , as my colleagues have already pointed out to the commission and council , a lot of hindrances are put in the way of students , lecturers , people undergoing training and volunteers with regard to mobility within the community .
a survey carried out by the commission in 1998 on the erasmus programme , covering 10,000 students , showed that less than 50 % of the available places were actually taken up on a full-time basis and that over 60 % of the students who took those courses encountered financial difficulties .
we have spoken many times about mobility and the shortcomings that exist in its regard .
no , a number of member states will have to be forced to eliminate obstacles of a kind which may seem ridiculous .
what is more , most of the problems of which we are aware do not stem from the commission but from the member states and even the regions .
last saturday , i was in paris for a council of ministers for education , exclusively on the issue of mobility .
the rapporteur quoted president chirac ' s words on mobility .
in november , the ministers of education are going to take a decision not only on this recommendation , which is a small step in the right direction , but also on an action plan to be implemented in order to facilitate mobility and turn this into a reality .
at the council meeting in nice , mobility will be one of the items for discussion .
i should also like to say that the french presidency is not the only one to have made progress in this area .
our heads of state and of government and the regional and national governments have realised that education has a role to play if we want to develop the economic and social sides of the european union .
the creation of a europe of knowledge is therefore a very important step in the right direction , but we still have a very long way to go .
however , we shall get there .
i am also able to accept the following amendments , as reworded : 7 , 9 , 13 , 20 , 23 , 29 , 32 , 42 , 52 and 57 on the basis of the english text .
and , finally , i am able to retain the following amendments in part : 6 , 10 , 15 , 19 , 21 , 22 , 24 and 42 .
ever since the beginning , it has been more or less clear that researchers could not be part of the recommendation .
however , as is its proper role , parliament has exerted pressure for researchers to be included in the text nonetheless .
the commission has responded to parliament , and these problems were tackled in a communication adopted on 18 january on the european research area and , in the follow-up to this communication , commissioner busquin will be presenting a communication on the mobility of researchers .
allow me now to return to amendments nos 46 to 51 which , with a view to ensuring that the recommendation is followed up , request the member states and the commission to put in place a process which might be considered similar to the luxembourg process in the case of employment .
i agree with the objective , but there is an important reason why the commission has adopted the position it has on these amendments , and that is because , by accepting them as they stand and in their present proposed wording , the same problem would arise as when we speak about the action plan which the ministers and the commission want to have finished drafting by november .
following the communication of the 26 july on matching human resources to the institution ' s tasks , the commission cannot accept new tasks unless the budgetary authority allocates it the necessary resources for carrying these out .
it is a collegiate position adopted by the commission , in view of the decisions taken , in view of the peer group and in view of staffing problems .
a good start has been made .
we want there to be real progress on this issue in the real conditions in our regions and our member states .
it is a fine objective , and we should like matters to move more quickly .
thank you very much , commissioner reding .
the debate is closed .
yet , as we know , the process is incomplete and , as such , it is not firing on all four cylinders .
the experience of these last 50 years is confirmation of the fact that there is a constant need for a driving force : a non-exclusive vanguard made up of countries which are judged on their merits and which are convinced of the project 's worth and determined to see it through .
the commission must promote the common interests of the countries of the union and further the management of the economy .
the union must present a completely united front in matters of foreign policy , defence and common security .
enlargement is essential in ethical as well as political terms : we must provide the candidate countries with exactly the same opportunity to contribute to the great process of european integration that our countries have had in the past , benefiting from the growth of their own democracies and from the security enjoyed by western europe .
when the decision was taken on monetary union , we were aware that we were creating asymmetry , but we were confident that this would be eliminated in the move towards a common management of the economy .
the recovery of the european economy is now taken for granted .
the charter of fundamental rights was drawn up in response to the need to insert europe into the consciousness of civil society ; it is proof of the fact that european integration is not an artificial construction but one with a soul : european identity .
the european charter makes clear to the world and , even more importantly , ourselves , who we are and what we believe .
the scope of our community of values is more clearly defined and more advanced than we ourselves are sometimes wont to believe .
with the charter of fundamental rights , europe is taking a significant step forwards in the transformation of an area which has hitherto been predominantly economic into a common area of rights , by establishing values and rules which define the concept of european citizenship .
this can be achieved in several different ways : by inserting the charter into the new legal corpus or by attaching it as the preamble .
personally , i feel that the charter should form the first part of a constitution , ( applause ) the second part of which should be dedicated to defining the different institutions , their responsibilities and the relationships between them .
the determination of the european people to reform must be met with solutions which will allow federal institutions such as the european central bank to work together with other institutions that are organised on the basis of an intergovernmental model .
the consolidation of the values of democracy and human rights cannot be put on hold . ( applause ) the recent elections in yugoslavia have shown the intensity of the yugoslav people 's desire for freedom and of their democratic determination to bring about change .
as an italian citizen and as president of the italian republic , i have never tried to hide my pro-european convictions .
in the space of half a century , the union has changed the face of europe and transformed relations between our peoples .
the exacting work carried out by the european parliament , the council and the commission must , in the interests of the union , interact with member states ' initiatives .
we need determination , resoluteness and political will in following a path which has already been mapped out .
subsequently , with the entry into force of the treaty reforming the institutions , the union will be in a position to manage the new , more substantial and more weighty responsibilities for which it is currently preparing : welcoming the first new members to join , consolidating the common foreign policy , creating a common military force , implementing once and for all the area of freedom , security and justice and adopting the fundamental charter of the european union .
you have reminded us of the responsibility that europe has , within the international community , for establishing values in the fields of democracy and human rights , and of the dramatic events in the middle east .
we were particularly conscious of this , mr president , last september , when we welcomed the speaker of the knesset and the speaker of the palestinian legislative council , who came here together , to this very rostrum , to deliver a message brimming with peace and hope .
finally , you have demonstrated your confidence - and i would thank you for this - in the role played by the european parliament and in the cooperation between our institutions , and more especially between the european parliament and the commission .
the way in which this house received the very powerful speech made by mr prodi yesterday showed not only that this cooperation is harmonious , but also that we have shared ambitions for the future of europe .
i first addressed the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities on 11 july and , on 5 september , i made a statement about the monitoring centre for industrial change .
the second point relates to the new information and communication technologies .
thirdly and finally , i think the proposal to make implementation of the principle of equal treatment a selection criterion for any community aid or funding is essential to promoting equality .
it will be held on 27 october .
we will also be organising a conference on professional equality on 24 november , bringing together experts , social partners and company managers , to look at the obstacles in the career paths of women .
i shall not , however , be talking about the conference on professional equality so much as the issues i have put on the agenda for the ministerial conference on 27 october .
the three subjects on the agenda for the ministerial conference are balanced participation by women and men in decision-making , combining work and family life , and including equality in several structures of the european union council of ministers .
the first issue , women ' s participation in decision-making in all areas , shows the serious deficit women still suffer from today in comparison with men .
perhaps some of you remember the paris conference of april 1999 , when we reached agreement on a statement , but , with fifteen ministers , had great difficulty deciding on a plan of action with quantified targets .
very briefly , a reform of the constitution was adopted on 28 june 1999 in france , with the support of the prime minister and the president of the republic , and immediately afterwards we began debating a bill on parity , which was adopted on 3 may 2000 .
i feel sure that balanced participation of women in political decision-making would produce a genuine renewal of our whole political life .
such power sharing will bring with it other profound changes in economic , social and cultural life .
the beijing platform for action and the final outcome document of the united nations general assembly special session on beijing + 5 , last june , are along the same lines .
i also want to salute the commission ' s initiative - i think my information is correct , mrs diamantopoulou - in taking a decision to have parity between men and women within its committees and groups of experts .
the french presidency would like to make progress in this matter and hopes to approach its partners with proposals for quantified targets for giving women access to decision-making in all areas , the political arena , which i have already mentioned , but also economic and social sectors .
initial consultations undertaken by the french presidency confirm that this is a central concern in all member states .
a proposal on indicators to measure progress will be put before the council .
i am thinking of the evora seminar on maternity and paternity and the resolution on balanced participation by men and women in family life and at work .
indeed , as i always say in france , ladies and gentlemen , while a law to impose parity in politics is now within the bounds of possibility , it is more difficult to impose parity in daily life , domestic parity , by law .
let me add that i have also put this item on the agenda of the conference on professional equality of 24 november .
to give you a couple of examples : at the education council there is the issue of mobility of men and women students and teachers , because we have recognised that there is major inequality in mobility ; and at the internal market , consumption and tourism council there is an item on the development of electronic commerce so as to make it accessible to all , both men and women , because we know there is gender inequality in electronic commerce too .
going beyond the specific issues falling within the scope of my ministry , i want to mention three initiatives , very briefly .
finally , in a word , the fourth pillar devoted to equal opportunities reinforces the integrated approach to equality through gender mainstreaming and through specific guidelines .
the second initiative i want to mention relates to the social agenda to be submitted to the nice summit , next december .
as you know , the draft is the outcome of complex negotiations which were completed on 26 september .
i shall stress our commitment to having the articles relating to gender equality clearly set out in the charter .
i know i have already used up my speaking time so i shall be very brief , but there are a few things i need to make clear .
the second relates to the principle of non-discrimination , including that based on gender .
combining work and family life , entitlement to paid maternity leave , rights of a more general scope , such as the right to dignity and the right to respect for their physical and mental integrity , also appear in the charter .
any progress we make in one member state is progress for the other member states .
if national policies are enriched by community policies , then community policies must also be inspired by national experiences .
those of us who have previously heard her in parliament know that , with her as president-in-office of the council , we have a very committed spokesperson for women ' s issues , and that is something we need if our plans are to succeed at all .
all three reports - i shall return to the speech of the president-in-office of the council in a moment - call attention to the articles of the treaty of amsterdam and say that , in these , we have obtained a new and sound basis for working on the issue of equality in the commission and that we have also obtained a number of tools for implementing equality in the different member states in a way we were unable to do before .
we can say that almost all women have worked hard to achieve a better treaty where equality is concerned , and i therefore think that we can be quietly pleased with the fifteen men who sat and adopted the treaty of amsterdam and were therefore also involved in implementing the principles of equality , even though it cannot , of course , be said that there is much in the way of obvious equality in their own assembly .
because a great many of the countries have said that they want to hold referenda , we have the major task of conveying to women in the candidate countries that the eu is good for them .
in connection with the reports , i would also say - and the president-in-office of the council touched upon this , too - that one of the major problems in the eu is of course the big cultural differences .
this clearly shows that the countries have very different interests , but one of the things we have to work on is trying to find out where , in particular , we can make a contribution in the individual countries .
mr president , mrs pery , commissioner , the reports that the commission has drawn up on equal opportunities in 1997 , 1998 and 1999 are very important documents and the reference to the treaty of amsterdam is a significant step forward .
articles 2 and 3 of the treaty of amsterdam , covering equal opportunities for men and women and article 141 covering positive measures for employment are a guarantee for women that should take effect in all the policies of the european union .
they have a much smaller share in the labour market than men , a difference that is particularly accentuated in some countries , especially in southern europe .
we know that measures for combining family and working life particularly favour women , although research is still needed into the current situation of the family and the role that women play in it , which is no longer the traditional role , because society has changed a great deal , and at the same time , so has family structure .
it is essential that research should be carried out on the real situation of women in the various member states in order to guide the policies that need to be made if we are to achieve greater equality between men and women .
the percentage of women in work in the european union is much lower than that in the united states and japan , a level that only some northern european countries come close to .
european union policies should help them to take part in order to achieve greater equality between men and women .
we cannot verify this , for - and the rapporteur also mentioned this in her report - the goals of the policy are not clearly defined and cannot be measured .
this week we have taken a great step closer to a reunited europe .
we must monitor whether the directive on equality is really being incorporated into legislation .
mainstreaming is very important in the internal policies of the candidate countries , too .
the eu should pursue a campaign to combat violence against women throughout eastern and central europe .
the eu should also take the initiative and organise a un convention against the trade in human beings .
it must also be said that france ' s constitutional amendment to establish a policy of equal decision-making would perhaps be ideal as a source of inspiration not just in the member states , but perhaps also at european union level .
i would also like to mention one problem in the area of work and family life .
we must be very careful that young mothers and fathers do not freely surrender their rights because they are afraid of the problems they might encounter in working life .
for example , at noon we will be voting on two reports on discrimination and equal access to employment which both exclude gender on the grounds that gender is covered by policies other than discrimination policy .
both are possible , but they are also contradictory , because we know very well that flexibility creates more poverty , and next week ' s world march of women will make that point .
there is no equal opportunity , there is no real equality for women without autonomy and freedom as social rights , so that they can have control of their lives throughout their lives .
but where , pray , are the conditions for women ' s rights and equal opportunities in that enlargement ?
i am concerned about that and i urge the french presidency to be concerned about it .
mr president , minister , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , all of us here agree that equal opportunities for men and women must be pursued in all our policies .
first , because while women , like citizens in general , have the same ideas of what is fair and what is unjust , they do not have the same ideas about their role in the various cultures of the european union .
every abortion is a condemnation of our society , but never a condemnation of an individual woman .
more serious still , i also have the feeling that the institutions of the european union have the greatest difficulty developing a global vision of society in our countries .
instead of addressing everyone , we compartmentalise : minority after minority , ethnic group after ethnic group .
any kind of national attachment must be destroyed , european societies must be reduced to a collection of isolated individuals in small ethnic , sexual , social or other minorities , all run from a distance by a european state as distant as it is pernickety .
the polish delegation to the new york conference already had occasion to appreciate the arrogance of a part of the european delegation incapable of accepting other positions more measured than its own .
in spite of these remarks , we shall vote for this report because we are naturally in favour of equal opportunities , but what equal opportunities means most of all is respect for everyone .
this means , among other things , that men and women interrelate and need each other in order to do themselves justice as men and women .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it was certainly a sensible initiative on the part of the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities to compile a report on the commission ' s annual reports concerning equal opportunities for men and women in the european union , covering the period from 1997 to 1999 .
however , we are still awaiting the decision regarding a formal council of ministers .
other speakers have made the point : we want political action .
the fifth action programme will assist us in this , but we as a european parliament have already come some way ourselves .
i try to look at these reports from the point of view of women in wales , the constituency i represent , and consider how they are affected by this kind of progress and how they can get access to and use this kind of information .
i would support the request of the committee on women 's rights in this report for a major study of women in the eu and in the candidate countries as a starting point for future work .
greater involvement by women at all levels of government and in all areas of life is essential for deepening democracy and achieving and maintaining peace .
the reports are welcome and the progress they outline is a step forward , but until we really begin to exchange good practice and base our work on real statistics , we are not in a position to judge whether we are on the right road to achieving real equality between women and men .
mr president , commissioner , mrs pery , ladies and gentlemen , as the commission ' s reports acknowledge , major issues still remain to be resolved in the field of equal opportunities for men and women .
despite the differing situations in member states , there are generally fewer women in the labour market , they are most affected by unemployment , including long-term unemployment , and by casual labour , part-time work and atypical , insecure and badly paid work .
since we know that quality employment that provides rights is a fundamental factor in guaranteeing equality between men and women and in guaranteeing women the same kind of independence as men , it is crucial that we study the causes of this situation and adopt the necessary measures to overcome it , specifically through policies on employment , training , education and on infrastructures for supporting the family and children , giving priority to this issue at a practical level and not just making declarations of intent .
whilst this situation can be explained to some extent by the difficulties women face in the labour market and within the family , it is also true that political parties must shoulder their democratic responsibility to guarantee equal opportunities for women to participate in political life and in the decision-making process itself , in order to put an end to the scandalous situation that still exists at the beginning of the new millennium .
madam president-in-office , thank you for coming here today to tell us about the french presidency ' s interesting initiatives .
i should like to dwell in particular on two terms : articulation between family and work and parite au quotidien .
these concepts and what they stand for are gaining ground in french society and i hope that this interest will be exported to the rest of europe .
my final comment concerns the situation of women in the countries preparing to join the european union .
it concerns not only women in the european union , but also women in the candidate countries .
worse , so-called equality is sometimes turned against women : for instance , in france today the incorporation of a directive is going to make night work legal for women .
in conclusion , fine words and nothing concrete .
that is what we will be saying in brussels on 14 october with the world march of women fighting against violence and for real work for all .
from the reports and speeches that we are considering today we can deduce , as many of us already knew , that the problem of equal opportunities is a structural problem and that in order to deal with it we need global strategies , because as women we are not a category or a homogenous social group or indeed any sort of group .
we cannot continue with an elitist debate , we cannot continue to have progress only benefiting those women who enjoy greater opportunities .
our efforts need to be directed at the women who have the most problems , who are certainly the majority in the european union .
not all countries have managed to follow france ' s example , which i hope will bear fruit elsewhere .
as the ministry of equal opportunities in portugal is now defunct , who will represent my country at the meeting on 27 october in paris ?
the report before us is , i feel , a major synergistic work .
i was indeed sorry to see that maria de belem roseira was no longer the representative .
obviously not , and as someone involved with associations for social change - because i too , like many of you , have some thirty years of involvement with these associations behind me - i know how hard the social movement , the feminist movement and the intellectual movement , naturally , have worked to move this issue forward , and today we take our places in roles of responsibility in our institutions .
the history of the women ' s movement goes back way over fifty years : i sometimes remember olympe de gouges , who dared to call for a declaration of women ' s rights and gender equality , and was condemned to the scaffold in 1793 .
my second comment is about inequality in the world of work .
this is currently being debated in parliament , and i have introduced a provision , which obviously does not suit everyone in my country , but which is compulsory and will compel each company or profession to negotiate on equality in the workplace every three years , covering salaries , conditions of work , career prospects , and access to lifelong training .
mr president , what we refer to here and what has been referred to for a century as the women ' s problem is approached from two different angles , as the debate here in the house today has demonstrated .
the 97 , 98 and 99 reports are not simply working papers .
thirdly , because they form the basis for strategy , both for the european union - even in the charter of fundamental rights the fact that we had a picture of the current situation played an important role - and at national level , given that the member states are able to use the comparative assessment to set national targets .
i fully accept the comments in the report and the recommendations by members who have spoken of the need to change the nature of the report .
i have taken your comments on board and i see that we need to concentrate on analysing data , especially the results of successful strategies and successful initiatives at national and european level , in order to give the report a strategic slant .
however , i would stress that , in working with each of the candidate countries , we have been closely monitoring the question of sexual equality , as regards both the legislative framework and the creation of institutions which can support the application of these policies .
as you know , we have starting signing joint reports with each candidate country in order to monitor their adjustment to employment policy on an annual basis .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
this reform is important because it aims to re-examine the community customs code in accordance with the progress of the internal market and of administrative techniques .
building a common customs system has been one of the major achievements in that progress towards european construction .
three of them - amendments nos 4 , 5 and 7 , referred to the commitology procedure .
these amendments need to be considered in the new context of the interinstitutional agreement , and therefore , parliament can agree to not insisting on these commitology amendments given that they have been superseded to a certain extent by the new interinstitutional framework .
with amendment no 15 , parliament wished to introduce a recital urging the customs authorities to apply customs rules correctly , to establish monitoring measures in order to ensure that it was applied consistently and to facilitate action against fraud .
finally , amendment no 11 requested that this modification to the community customs code enter into force before 1 january 2000 and is , therefore , no longer valid .
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , following a long debate , considered that it was not reasonable to maintain legal uncertainty for a period of six years , and that three years , which is the period set , is a more reasonable period of time for establishing , with the appropriate means and the average proceedings , whether or not there were irregularities in a declaration .
with regard to the modification of paragraph 6 of article 215 , it should be said that we are dealing with a deeper issue , because the intention is that the additional declaration could be made anywhere in the european union , especially wherever in the european union the undertaking in question has its headquarters .
the progress made on the internal market , the gradual growth in trade due to the increasing opening up of the markets and the progress of the information society mean that the community customs code needs to be brought up to date with the development of community and international trade .
i must therefore regret that they were not taken into consideration , although i also understand the position of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market - the position of the rapporteur - of not re-introducing the amendments because , ultimately , what really matters is that the community customs code and the proposed reforms move forward and that the legal framework is established .
however , there is an amendment that the council rightly rejected .
it is amendment no 15 , on fraud .
there were goods , particularly tobacco , which were entering through a non-community country in the european economic area zone , going through the community zone and then mysteriously leaving the community zone on paper , but without actually leaving .
currently , for example , there has been a drop in the price of bananas in the european union .
therefore , while recognising , as the council and the commission have said , that this amendment was not appropriate in this case , i would like to , once again , take the opportunity to point out that the procedures for monitoring imports in the european union are not working , that fraud is being committed and that this fraud is not only bad for community taxpayers , but also for the functioning of the internal market , and even for loyalty to third countries .
if we want third countries to accept commitments , the european community must be the most zealous in ensuring that its own rules are being complied with , because if a country has the opportunity to place products in the community by means of smuggling , why is it going to bother to negotiate with us for any sort of concessions ?
i therefore welcome the fact that we have reached an agreement on this subject .
i think that the modifications are very positive , but i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commission for greater vigilance and for stricter measures on fraud in community customs .
after all , in the community customs code , a successful attempt has been made to harmonise and simplify legislation in a transparent manner , which surely must always be the objective .
the code forms the legal basis for levying these duties and , as such , one of the key instruments for protecting the financial interests of the community and for ensuring the smooth running of the community policy in different areas .
but it is too late now because you have just taken the vote and members voted in favour of it .
we have exchanged all the happy words and have asked member states to take action but the commission , because of restrictions on its budget and reasons that it has given before , is now indicating that is not prepared to follow through to see how the measures are being implemented in the different countries , which to my mind rather neuters the whole report that parliament spent a long time putting together .
this is also very sad for thousands of students and others involved in education across europe .
mr samaranch , we know you took up your post as ioc president in 1980 , and since then , have introduced many important reforms .
firstly , the integration of china into the olympic games ; the institution of the olympic truce ; your insistence on participation in the games by all countries in the world , as well as from countries in conflict , a recent example of which is the participation of athletes from east timor ; the participation of women in the olympic games and in the different governing bodies has strengthened considerably under your presidency ; and of course , the fact that the olympic games in sydney were considered to have been drugs-free .
vote ( continuation ) mr president , we are just about to start the vote on the mann report and i want to draw your attention to the fact that there appears to be a translation problem in amendment no 63 from the tdi group .
report evans ( a5-0255 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted in favour of the evans report .
the right of freedom of movement of european citizens is still being violated in many ways .
students in particular often encounter barriers and difficulties in member states that should no longer occur under eu legislation .
european rights of citizenship do not seem to carry much weight in this situation .
everyone agrees that this mobility must be encouraged in the name of the free movement of persons , but also and especially because of all the benefits to the young citizens of europe and hence the european union .
according to the recommendation , based on articles 149 and 150 of the treaty , member states need to be encouraged to adopt measures which will steadily remove the existing difficulties , and the citizens of the union should be offered a platform of rights leading to real mobility .
mr evans also demonstrates that people hoping to benefit from programmes in this area need to be better informed about their social security entitlements .
remember that 2001 has been designated european year of languages .
i call on the member states to coordinate the formalities to be fulfilled for enrolling in the establishments of other member states .
that is why i shall vote for this report .
it lays down conditions to enable people travelling inside the union to do so free from restrictions on their rights , their social security , or other benefits .
as the rapporteur said , the commission appears to be aware that , unless concrete measures are adopted , certain fundamental freedoms that are enshrined in the treaty , such as the right of residence and the right of free movement , are , in practice , in danger of becoming mere statements of principle .
we are therefore opposed to amendment 38 concerning the introduction of common tax regulations for volunteers .
i hope when this report comes back for second reading we are able to note that the council has incorporated the rapporteur 's sensible amendments .
report mann ( a5-0264 / 2000 ) mr president , on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party , i would like to draw two points requiring clarification to your attention .
i strongly supported this amendment , which reads : " no discrimination as regards access to health care , welfare benefits , and economic assistance shall be permitted on the grounds of the age of a disabled person " .
i have not voted for the mann report because , while it is indeed necessary to seek equal treatment for people in employment and occupation , it is also necessary to refrain from pushing zeal to the point of abandoning all protection of freedoms and all respect for the rule of law .
during the treaty of amsterdam negotiations we were delighted with the inclusion of article 13 on discrimination on the grounds of sex , racial or ethnic origin , religion or belief , disability , age and sexual orientation .
that kind of provision bears witness to the community ' s commitment to promote a more just , more egalitarian society , and above all , it has opened the way to appropriate community action aimed at contributing to the fight against discrimination in general .
the proposals consist of two draft directives , covering discrimination in employment and discrimination based on race and ethnic origin , and an action programme intended to support the efforts of the member states .
as regards the parallel directive on equal treatment irrespective of race or ethnic origin , the council succeeded in reaching political agreement after the european parliament revised its opinion on the issue .
we have therefore had to vote on the directive on equal treatment in employment and the 2001 / 2006 action programme .
to explain my votes , i would first say that the right to equal treatment and protection against discrimination is a fundamental human right .
as regards the mann report on equal treatment in employment , i shall limit myself to emphasising my satisfaction that the grounds for derogation have been successfully reduced to the minimum .
i felt it was essential to broaden the scope of the programme in order to ensure the implementation of article 13 of the treaty .
everyone is well aware of the problems faced by certain minorities in those countries .
in conclusion , i support the spirit of these proposals and i have voted for most of them , the exception being where they are in contradiction with my secularism .
the proposal for a directive on equal treatment in employment and occupation before us today is a response to a demand long expressed by the european parliament , and our group in particular .
it is actually one of three parts of a package of measures on combating discrimination based on the new article 13 , introduced by the treaty of amsterdam , and includes a community action programme .
so , i enthusiastically support this proposal for a directive and the very positive amendments proposed by our rapporteur to improve its effectiveness .
in parallel , the amendment extending the exception to the principle of non-discrimination to the wider ' social ' activities of religious organisations , where the discrimination is solely based on religious conviction and on no other grounds , is a reinforcement of the specific nature and original contribution of these structures as compared with public or private services .
this directive gives member states a great opportunity to enhance the rights of workers across the european union .
the snp is pleased to support this legislation , which is in line with our party 's policies of ending discrimination in all its guises and of positively backing measures to ensure equality of treatment for all citizens .
his report was adopted unanimously in the committee on employment and social affairs .
this brings to mind another sound rule of thumb : ' no one can achieve the impossible ' .
the proposal covers both direct and indirect discrimination .
the proposal also allows positive action to redress gender imbalance .
on age , the eplp welcomes the principle of fighting age discrimination in employment and training .
the eplp is concerned to ensure that the directive will permit section 60 of the uk schools standard and framework act 1998 to remain unaltered .
on sexual orientation , we welcome the principle of the commission 's proposals to fight discrimination on this ground .
several areas of difference with the race directive should be eliminated , such as the definition of indirect discrimination in amendment no 21 , the defence of rights in article 8 , the text on victimisation in article 10 , and article 11 covering dissemination of information .
we also feel that the directive should be clear about which differences of treatment on the grounds of age are permissible and which are not .
we have therefore decided to vote against this amendment , but we support the report as such .
to set up an internal audit office in the institutions will naturally require effort , but that effort will remain the same , whether it is made now or in the future .
report titley ( a5-0211 / 2000 ) i am sure , in common with all my colleagues , we support the proper management and control of arms exports in the european union .
the reasons of my vote on this report relate , in the main , to the question of closer european union relations with nato and also the onward rush to a common defence policy .
many will speak about peace and conflict resolution while at the same time will be making deals to sell arms to combatants .
the individual eu countries are members of nato and the weu , or else are non-aligned .
the report sees arms export controls primarily as a method of avoiding awkward situations for europe ' s military industry and not as a way of achieving disarmament and peace .
support this report from my colleague , gary titley , and agree with him that responsible arms trade practices form part of the " acquis communautaire " and therefore candidate countries should be actively involved in the further development of the code of conduct on arms exports and that this should be legally binding .
the european states have sold arms to indonesia , whose army is implicated in the massacres in timor and the moluccas .
our objections to this are four-fold : the possibility of yet another range of activities being justiciable in the european court of justice is opened up ; the possibility of obtaining agreement by other arms exporting countries outside the eu to an international code of conduct will be that much more difficult and unattractive if it is legally binding ; if legal sanctions are involved there is a danger that some of those involved in the arms trade will be less open in their activities ; there may be reluctance by some countries to place arms orders with european states which are encumbered by legislation , particularly when a long-term after-sales support relationship may be involved .
report angelilli ( a5-0258 / 2000 ) children are the first victims of violence on television .
we do agree with a number of interesting proposals on protecting children in the angelilli report , such as the need for a detailed study into the moral and legal aspects of the protection of minors .
if i do so , it is not because i am opposed to the report as such but because i should like to send a clear signal to the effect that the eu and the commission should concentrate on their core tasks .
