certainly we have yet to discuss in detail how this is to be accomplished , but the principle of double majority is fundamentally right .
as far as the commission is concerned , as i see it , the small states must still be entitled , in the future , to be represented in the european commission , since it is felt to be important to maintain a presence in brussels .
naturally , the european parliament must be the decisive factor in the democratic process , and it must participate in decisions pertaining to legislative issues in the european union .
this is a very important point and i am delighted that both rapporteurs saw fit to mention it .
mr president , with the dimitrakopoulos - leinen report under discussion , the european parliament is declaring its great vision for the european union of the future .
the draft resolution is therefore quite right to define that basic view in the form of three principles .
thirdly , the way the union functions must be made more effective , so that it can cope with the major enlargement .
the intergovernmental conference of 2000 is taking place to make the union as effective as is required in view of the major enlargement that has been decided .
the effectiveness of democratic institutions is not measured either with a stopwatch , or according to the number of decisions taken .
mr president , within our groups in parliament and within the igc itself we are still struggling with the problems that proved fairly intractable at amsterdam .
these issues are tricky because they expose both the exaggerated self-importance of small states and the folie de grandeur of the big states .
this trust is precisely the quality that is needed so that we are able to ensure the successful accession of the new member states .
the fact is - and somebody should say this - that if the igc fails to resolve the amsterdam questions , enlargement must be postponed .
the liberal group supports the efforts of the presidency and of the commission to build up the extra trust required .
mr president , the european parliament does not take part in intergovernmental conference negotiations .
therefore , our assessment of this report is based on the fact that it is being presented in an unsatisfactory context , in which our priorities - an open , working democracy capable of rendering economic development environmentally sustainable , which ensures the respect and consolidation of the rights of the citizens and residents , and , most importantly , which is able to enlarge to include new member countries in a short period of time - are not the same as those of the negotiating governments .
the governments have one sole objective : to reach a unanimous agreement in nice , whatever the outcome , so that they do not have to move on to some other city as obscure as maastricht .
although parliament cannot take part in negotiations , it has a duty to indicate the way , to define clear options for the future , without pretending to take part in the actual negotiations and without being conditioned by governmental pressure or pressure from artificial comparisons , such as the comparison between large and small countries .
this report only partly achieves this objective , and this is why our group was not able to be unanimous in its final assessment .
in this regard , we hope that our amendment will find consensus in the house .
in particular , as regards the subject of the number of commissioners , we will support the balanced position of those amendments which ensure both sufficient representation of the member states and the efficiency of the commission .
to sum up , this report may well be useful in assisting our two representatives in their often extremely frustrating daily work at the intergovernmental conference where others take the decisions , but to our citizens , it will seem about as clear as an interministerial memorandum .
it is making sure that we do not just build a europe of the states and a europe of the people , but , especially , a europe of the citizens .
we must create a fully democratic institutional fabric .
we cannot create an amsterdam 2 .
we have to create a treaty which gives rise to genuine european construction in which more than 400 million europeans can share economic prosperity , a social dimension and a democratic life .
this is the great challenge for the european institutions and for european politics .
my vision of european construction is compatible with the fundamental lines which are laid out in the report which we are discussing today .
it is , of course , necessary to give the commission the powers it needs and make it responsible to parliament .
our minimum demand is that parliament be treated as an adult which has to request that the commission take certain responsibilities , but which also has to participate actively in european construction on behalf of the european citizens .
on behalf of the european citizens , we have to ask today not only for that fine-tuning of decision making but also for the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty .
mr president , in our view the european parliament ' s proposals for the intergovernmental conference , as set out in the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report , are a misinterpretation .
first of all , it takes us away from the concept of europe as an association of states , an association of national democracies , and puts all the countries , great or small , that are afraid of being marginalised on the defensive .
we must adopt a more positive approach .
the asset under our constitutions is the right of voters to be heard and to choose representatives who can pass laws on our behalf .
they are taking legislative power from our 15 national parliaments and transferring it to officials and ministers , from voters and elected representatives to the executive and from open assemblies to meetings behind closed doors in brussels .
electoral power is being transferred from our constitutions , but is not being transferred to the european parliament .
the voters in our countries should always have the last word .
mr president , dismayed as i am at the ongoing prejudice shown towards austria by 14 member states , i would like to confine my comments on the matter at hand to the issue of closer cooperation , in all its guises .
multi-speed integration of this kind cannot act as a guarantee for coherent and stable development of the union .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i am speaking as draftsman of the opinion of this parliament ' s committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
i understand the importance of institutional reforms , but i would also like to express the opinion of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism on the issues which we must tackle in relation to the intergovernmental conference .
firstly , the active recognition of the role , protagonism and participation of the regions in the process of european construction which began 50 years ago .
to this end , we want an extended article 70 and we also want it to be supplemented with a provision on the creation of a single european agency for air traffic control .
the committee on constitutional affairs has set out a determined position and i want to pay tribute to its work and that of its chairman , mr napolitano .
parliament , like the commission , has sized up the challenge facing the union with the prospect of an unprecedented increase in the number of member states which , by the same token , will accentuate their diversity .
that is what is at stake in these negotiations , which we must bring to a successful conclusion at the end of this year , at the european council in nice .
i am thinking , for example , of the court of justice ' s workload and of the log-jams we see in some areas because of the requirement of unanimity in the council .
your parliament has looked in depth at the decision-making system in the council and at the composition and functioning of the commission .
since 26 january you have been well aware of the positions set out by the commission .
but we also proposed two options on that basis .
either every country will have a national representative within the commission at the same time , or not all countries will be represented at any one time .
negotiations on these issues have scarcely begun .
qualified majority voting should become the general rule for council decisions , together with the codecision procedure for all matters that come within the legislative sphere .
we are well aware that certain member states have difficulties with some of these questions .
what the commission , what the european parliament must do is precisely to look beyond these reservations and sincerely , honestly and without any ideological bias consider the coherence and effectiveness of the single market .
that is what we wanted to do with our additional contribution which describes the new area of qualified majority voting in relation to certain aspects of the tax system , certain aspects of social protection , to ensure the smooth operation of the single market .
but i also want to emphasise how important it is for us , outside our official and institutional establishments , to explain our activities and engage in dialogue with the national parliaments and the citizens of every eu country and with the candidate countries .
in saying that , i want to pay tribute to the portuguese presidency and in particular to jame gama and to franciscos seixas da costa for electing to adopt a pragmatic and objective approach , an approach that is as objective as possible and that consists in starting out from the needs and limitations of the existing system and proposing solutions .
the first point concerns european defence .
since the cologne council , and in particular the helsinki council , the necessary structures are being set up , on an interim basis , within the council ' s general secretariat .
discussions are under way on relations between the european union and nato .
the european union defence ministers met on 28 february .
in a few weeks ' time , the european council in feira will have to decide whether the treaty should be amended with a view to building on the guidelines of the helsinki european council .
our group of representatives has not considered these questions yet , but let me share a few ideas with you .
ladies and gentlemen , after matters relating to justice and the police , a security and defence policy is without doubt the last major common policy we have to establish .
the existing treaty , as amended at amsterdam , has enabled us to make significant progress .
it may be that , before it concludes , the intergovernmental conference will have to consider the structures and appropriateness of the existing treaty .
i do not have all the answers to this question but i think it needs to be asked , and to be asked in the context of the conference .
my second point concerns the eu charter of fundamental rights and the eu ' s democratic values .
the interest that is being shown in this draft charter and the support for its incorporation in the treaty confirm what i regard as the need to reaffirm , over and over again , the fundamental values of the eu , to set down once and for all the principles shared by all the citizens of europe .
it is the same need that inspired your parliament ' s report drafted by mr duff and mr voggenhuber .
your parliament has considered these questions , as it has considered the existing treaty provisions that would penalise any violation of the fundamental principles of the union .
the commission is prepared for this debate , which i believe is a necessary one , provided we keep it clear of any polemics .
but just as a mountain grows larger the closer you approach it , let me stress that this exercise involves major technical and legal difficulties .
the treaties are not complicated in the sense of deliberately wanting to discourage the reader ; they are complicated because the expression of the common resolve of 6 , 9 , 10 , 12 or 15 member states , over the efforts of 40 years , is not a linear operation , nor is it always as logical and simple as might be imagined after the fact , unless you start again from scratch .
then , if this reorganisation of the treaties proves possible and convincing - as i personally believe it will - it will be time to examine the procedures for amending these restructured texts .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , let me conclude by repeating that i and president romano prodi are prepared to continue and intensify these joint discussions so that , together with the council , indeed all together , we will succeed in achieving a genuine reform at the end of this year .
i believe that this is one of the best reports which have so far been produced in the framework of igcs over recent years .
as far as our group is concerned , the resolution needs to be amended on a number of points .
for example , we do not agree with the proposal in the resolution to restrict the number of commissioners to 20 and to introduce a rota system for the smaller countries .
in order to boost citizens ' confidence in the european commission , it is vital that each member state should have a commission member .
mr president , firstly , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , i would like to express my support for the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report and , furthermore , thank the portuguese presidency for their positive attitude towards the incorporation of parliament into the intergovernmental conference .
this report is of great value and i therefore believe we should support it today by a majority in this parliament , because this is an opportunity for a completely open debate on the great issues still facing us in europe .
this debate is going on between political and national groups in different member states .
i believe this should be an important element in our coexistence .
therefore , this is an important debate and i believe the council should take account of the position we take .
secondly , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i believe we should also try to introduce some vision and some idealism into this debate .
these are clear and fundamental challenges , which refer to and are linked to the membership of the commission , the power of the president , fair contributions by the member states and such important questions as closer cooperation , majority voting and - a vital issue - the charter of fundamental rights .
i say this particularly in view of the crisis which we have seen in a member state as a result of the presence of a party whose fundamental values are contrary to the community of values which we hold here .
a final consideration : commissioner barnier has said that , before the end of the conference , we must resolve certain problems relating to the chain of command .
here , the only risk involved in democracy is the risk taken in elections .
this is the risk taken by minister gama , commissioner barnier and by all of us .
however , here in the gossip shops of brussels we create a situation and certain centres of power which do not correspond to the principles of democracy and transparency , which are precisely the principles which we have to strengthen in this intergovernmental conference .
i believe that it is important for all of the institutions to confront this issue responsibly .
we are to have a security policy worthy of the name , implement administrative reforms and , hopefully , win back some of the confidence our citizens have lost in the european project .
the intergovernmental conference should prepare the eu for these changes .
i would like them to know that my scepticism , and any decision on my part to reject this report , is no reflection on them , but on this house , which does not have the backbone to confront the european council with its own vision of what the future should hold for european integration .
in terms of power politics , or following a constitutional line of thought , it is quite clear what the council wants .
separation of powers , public scrutiny of legislation , parliamentarianism , unrestricted legal supervision on the part of the european court of justice , binding fundamental rights , strengthening of the original european institutions - the commission , parliament and the european court of justice - none of these matters are of concern to the council .
parliament must pluck up the courage to vie with the council when it comes to determining the future of european integration .
this is about nothing less than the rediscovery of democracy in the supranational sphere .
it is about nothing less - and this is , or would be parliament ' s task - than making european unification public property .
if you accept without criticism that not only does the council see itself as a legitimate representative of the states , it also claims to represent the people by virtue of the double majority , thereby depriving parliament of its legitimacy , then we still have a long way to go before ...... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , if the changes to the treaty proposed in the resolution we are debating are implemented , the european union will take an absolutely crucial step on the way to becoming a federal state and one , moreover , in which the national parliaments will lose control over almost all crucial areas of policy .
the eu ' s major problem today is not a lack of centralised power but a shortage of real democracy .
many adherents of emu on the left have , of course , argued in favour of altering the nature of monetary union in such a way that the central bank is placed under democratic control and that the goals of economic policy are not merely monetary .
however , any changes within the internal decision-making procedures must be balanced and fair .
we do not want to see a two-tier european union in which larger member states dictate the pace at the expense of the smaller member states .
for example , the report which we are debating today recommends a rotation system for the composition of the european commission .
i do not believe that this is a particularly sensible proposal . 380 million citizens of the union have an affinity with the commission .
it is still the institution that controls the operations of competition policy , the common agricultural policy , the common fisheries policy and the common transport policy .
we should also remember that some member states , including my country , must hold a referendum on any treaty changes that arise at the forthcoming igc .
the loss of an automatic right to nominate a commissioner would certainly be a very difficult , if not impossible , proposal to sell to an irish electorate in this referendum .
i would now like to return to the issue of extending the qualified majority voting system at european council level .
the council represents the interests of the 15 member state governments within the institutional framework of the union and currently , under existing eu treaties , unanimous agreement of the 15 member states is required for any tax changes sought within the union .
the report we are discussing today seeks to extend qualified majority voting to all legislative activities except those of a constitutional nature .
i believe that national member states should retain the right of veto on taxation matters .
the irish taxation system is innovative in many ways and has contributed to our present growth rates .
mr president , whilst i too wish to express my dismay at the ongoing prejudice displayed towards austria by 14 member states , i would like to take the opportunity to comment on the opinion of the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport , which refers to a number of very important areas .
most minority groups in europe define themselves through their cultural traditions , and it will only be possible to afford them the protection they need if we make it possible for them to integrate into mainstream society , whilst respecting their own traditions .
if we are to acknowledge and comprehend these traditions , we will have to do more than register the differences purely as ethnic characteristics or as a list of discriminations .
in defining and reworking the concept of a minority ' s culture , a new dimension will be added to this very important basis for identity , and cultural issues within the eu will not be treated as a mere colourful adjunct to our other very important responsibilities .
we are concerned by the proposals for constitutionalisation of the union , by the proposals to incorporate the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty , by the progressive diminishing of the distinction between the first and second pillars , by the proposal that the council should adopt broad guidelines of economic , employment and social convergence policies by qualified majority .
these are just some examples of the complex and controversial issues which are raised .
it should ensure that it meets the deadline , to enable the first wave of enlargement to include central and eastern european countries by 2004 , and to continue any further necessary reforms with the full inclusion of our new partners .
if the eu delays enlargement too long , it may make it more difficult , or impossible , for some candidate countries to join within the envisaged timetable .
the president-in-office addressed some of these concerns in his speech .
i do not think that is a very fair reflection on the extraordinary reforms that many of the candidate countries have made in the last 9 and 10 years since they were within the warsaw pact or formerly part of the soviet union .
our priority is enlargement .
mr president , my group welcomes this report .
it sends a clear message to the igc to be ambitious , to think long-term and not short-term , to think of how a union with nearly double the number of member states we have now can actually function effectively and to take this opportunity to change the treaties , because future igcs with nearly 30 states around the table will find it even more difficult than it is now to agree on reforms .
on the size of the commission , for instance , the formulas that are likely to be adopted tomorrow will refer either to one commissioner per member state or to a smaller number , a fixed number of commissioners .
the commission cannot go on expanding indefinitely .
in the second case , it will be a rotating system , so that every member state , large and small , has equal opportunities of seeing one of its nationals serve in the commission .
on the question of the size of the european parliament , we have also found a point of equilibrium , based on to a minimum number of members for each member state .
so the report is balanced and i think can be welcomed .
some people are saying : ' the igc will never agree to this point or to that point ' .
that is essential for our future .
unanimity voting must apply to decisions of a constitutional and fundamental nature .
closer cooperation must make it possible to manage diversity and avoid getting bogged down , without calling the fundamental structure of the union into question .
the scottish national party , which i represent , is committed in its manifesto and its general policy to the idea of europe as a confederation of peoples , countries and regions , not as a sovereign federal union in its own right .
i want to draw attention particularly to amendment no 138 , in its interaction with paragraph 32 of the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report .
the reduction in members of the european parliament that we would face , coupled with the arrival of new member states which are smaller in population than scotland or wales and which would be fully represented in all the institutions of the union , will certainly increase the pressure for and our people ' s commitment to the idea of our own independence in this great european confederation .
the commission can also accept amendments nos 1 to 4 , 8 , 11 , 24 , 35 to 38 , 46 , 48 , 49 and 52 in principle , as far as they clarify the intention of the commission to establish an efficient , transparent and balanced regulatory framework for gmos .
some of these amendments need only to be brought into line with the legal wording of the text of the directive and the overall legislative framework .
for other amendments , for instance those amendments concerning antibiotic-resistant marker genes , the principle is politically acceptable but the proposed text as such does not seem to be appropriate .
the commission is unable to accept amendments nos 5 to 7 , 10 , 12 to 16 , 18 , 20 to 23 , 25 to 28 , 30 to 34 , 39 to 45 , 50 and 51 .
more specifically concerning amendments nos 22 , 23 and 25 , the commission cannot accept them as they stand but is willing to consider how due account can be taken of the concerns they reflect .
i have the council ' s common position of 9 december 1999 before me .
if i remember correctly , we were still under the finnish council presidency in december 1999 , with a green environment minister .
the green group is not dependent on the positions of the green ministers represented in the environment council .
but i wanted to speak specifically on the vote on amendment no 37 .
i think it is quite logical to vote on amendment no 11 first , before amendment no 37 , because amendment no 11 goes further than amendment no 37 .
it proposes a total ban on antibiotic-resistant marker genes , which is not the case in amendment no 37 , which relates only to part c of the directive .
mr lannoye , the rapporteur discussed this question with the competent services yesterday .
in fact he believes that the wording of amendment no 11 is such as to suggest a different voting order from the one you recommend .
after the vote on amendments nos 38 and 49 : president .
but i also had to respect the protocol which , once again , unfortunately often takes precedence over our proceedings .
let me assure you that all your comments will be passed on to the bureau .
in paragraph 15 , instead of saying " the oau " it should say " the african states " .
in section 17 , instead of " the oau " it should say " africa " .
mr president , i am delighted this resolution has been adopted by parliament in recognition of the problem that exists with additionality .
as commissioner barnier has stated , it is as important to comply with the spirit of additionality as with the letter of the law .
the commissioner also endorsed the statement by commissioner liikanen that in future the commission would be particularly attentive to the spending figures put forward by the member states when there is evidence of reduced expenditure in a given region or regions .
paragraph a continues to confuse the principle of additionality with the separate but equally important principle of co-financing .
paragraph g is inaccurate .
our real goal must be to plan and give our support to the successful implementation of these funds to improve the life prospects of people in our poorest regions .
my party is committed to this goal and will work with other parties in a constructive and positive way to achieve this .
checks on the transport of dangerous goods by road mr president , i voted for this resolution because , clearly , the transport of dangerous goods is constantly in need of regulation .
the experience of workers who have been performing this activity for a substantial period of time should be recognised , and employment of the elderly in all the most hazardous activities should be promoted .
recommendation for second reading : bowe ( a5-0083 / 2000 ) president , we are very disappointed with the outcome of the vote .
if industry maintains that products of genetic engineering are safe and do not present risks , then i cannot understand why the majority of delegates have caved in and allowed industry to continue to evade responsibility .
a lame demand of this kind takes no account whatsoever of consumer interests .
mr president , i want to give an oral explanation of vote because what has happened , once again , is not very good news for our parliament .
this would mean that antibiotic-resistant products that have already been authorised would remain .
there are many less damaging forms of marker genes available and it is eu policy to prohibit all unnecessary use of antibiotics if there is a risk for human or animal health .
the directive should take a clear stand and insist that the use of these marker genes is stopped now .
the environment committee adopted two contradictory amendments , one for a total exemption and one tightening up the common position line of a conditional exemption with all the normal environmental risk provisions .
admittedly , we have known since first reading that the principle of banning gmos , or at least having a moratorium to allow for more in-depth studies , was rejected .
alas , as we already know from the white paper it prepared on the subject , the commission is not in favour of compulsory insurance in this area .
the pressure groups in the biotechnology industry explain that there is no risk , while at the same time saying that compulsory insurance is impossible because the risk is not insurable .
one obscure aspect of this business is that the french government which , according to the most recent information , includes ecologists , had officially expressed reservations about this amendment no 33 .
as a consumer , i am very pleased about this compulsory labelling because it will allow us to make an informed choice , although i would have preferred stricter rules that required a very clear indication on the outside packaging !
yet this is a positive first step , since it has led several large firms to stop putting gmos into their products .
the proposals of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy set out a strict and transparent framework , thus responding fully to consumer concerns .
the purpose of the three main amendments i support is as follows : to prevent any accidental contamination of fields by cross-pollination between gmo and non-gmo crops .
however , as proposed by the rapporteur , the amendments approved at first reading but not accepted by the council must now be included .
we also support the defence of total environmental liability as it is unacceptable not to force companies in the biotechnology sector to take the necessary measures to protect human health and minimise environmental risks .
as a swedish christian democrat member of the european parliament , i want to state that it must never be the gmo industry and economic interests which are allowed to govern legislation and regulations .
in purely practical terms , this means regulations which guarantee a minimised risk of the spread of gmos , a halt to the use of antibiotic resistance markers , an increase in independent research into the risks presented by gmos , liability for damages based on the principle that those who release gmos into the environment with deleterious effects upon health or the environment should be held strictly liable , long-term evaluations of the socio-economic and environmental consequences of the release of gmos into the environment , permanent labelling of gmo products , compliance with all current regulations , such as the biosafety protocol , and an open application and decision-making process in which the public are entitled to express an opinion and in which each application is dealt with separately and no simplified application procedures are approved . - ( sv ) it is an important report which parliament has voted on today .
the directive guarantees a high level of protection .
in the case of genes expressing resistance to antibiotics , the council ' s position makes continued research possible under strict conditions based upon environmental considerations and respect for the consumer .
labour euro mps have been at the forefront of protecting our citizens and our environment .
we have consistently backed proposals to ensure that the use of gmos and products derived from gmos are strictly controlled within the eu .
david bowe ' s report is yet further proof of europe greening up its act and putting the safety of our citizens first .
papayannakis report ( a5-0088 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the measure on the labelling of beef .
all too often , the governments of our 15 states think of citizens , particularly pensioners and the elderly , as numbers , people without an identity , a life story or a date of birth .
it is quite astounding that , given the gravity of the situation , today , so many years after the crisis , we still do not have an effective system of traceability in place .
indeed we also defended that point of view by tabling amendments in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy and the committee on agriculture and rural development .
the committee on the environment amended important points of the commission proposal .
pushing for clear labelling is the only way to convince our customers that food safety is top of our list .
lisbon european council mr president , i have taken the floor , for the last time today , to explain the way i voted on the conclusions of the lisbon summit .
with regard to social security , i would have preferred it if the decision had , at last , been taken to create a single european pension for the union .
in fact , a new wave of neo-liberalism swept through lisbon and gave the eu its marching orders in the global economic war .
and this was done with the complicity of all the left-wing governments present in lisbon .
to sugar the pill , the eu is promising us quasi-general access to the internet and cutting-edge vocational training .
in addition , it will be capable of improving citizens ' quality of life and the environment .
however , it is equally true that without active intervention this shift will widen the gap between the haves and have-nots .
these thoughts are reflected in our votes and the amendments tabled . - ( el ) the lisbon summit , which can only euphemistically be termed " an employment summit " despite the clamorous declarations that went with it , achieved no more than to take another step towards changing employment into employability , redefining the concept ' working person ' and destabilising labour relations and rights , to serve the celebrated ' new economy ' in the best possible way for big business , this being the new name for the old , familiar but still more unrestrained and harsh economic and social liberalism .
what the lisbon economic and social policy guidelines are promoting , what is in practice being prepared for working people and ' served up ' under a misnamed ' modernisation ' - intended to ' sugar the pill ' , deceive working people and reduce public reaction against the anti-labour and anti-grass roots economic and social policy of the eu - is a minimum level of poverty and not a minimum level of prosperity .
you will find them in front of you , unsubdued , uncompromising and unyielding , fighting for and demanding full and steady employment and a system of social policy that includes insurance , health , pensions , protection for the unemployed , real equality of opportunity , quality education and substantive professional training .
we express our solidarity with these african peoples who have paid a heavy price to our ruling classes ; and it is not even enough for us to cancel a debt that has already been largely repaid .
yet the eu persists in wanting to divide africa between the mediterranean area and black africa .
although the africans have managed to wrest a few promises of debt cancellation from a few eu countries , the eu remains opposed to the idea of a global cancellation of the third world debt , which means the people are starving daily .
like the eu-africa civil society forum in march , which brought together more than 80 ngos , we declare our opposition to the structural adjustment programmes and our continued support for the debt-cancellation campaigns .
as a portuguese person and as an mep , i regret that the portuguese presidency has confused the position which it took as a government in its bilateral relations with austria with the responsibilities which it must assume and fulfil when holding the council presidency .
as we were all here , apart from one political group which was also absent from a certain point , i must regret that the portuguese presidency chose to align itself with a political group which has the most recent totalitarian memories in this house .
she represents this institution and must act and speak in this house with respect for all the different positions expressed here .
however , if i were asked to give my opinion on the overall status of the situation in europe , i would have to say that i am somewhat confused and concerned .
personally , i find some of the decisions adopted extremely excessive , if not rash , such as , for example , the proposal to open the community to turkey - a country which i respect and which it is right to respect , despite its differences from the european community in terms of history , culture and politics and the concept of the state as well , quite apart from the issue of human rights - and these decisions are evidence of an organisation which is becoming increasingly more economic than political .
the europe which we europeanists dream of is a europe of states , and it should therefore be no cause for concern to anyone who , and rightly so , believes strongly in national identity .
there is no point in denying anything in this case either .
i feel that parliament will be required to take courageous , decisive action in matters much more important than a resolution , if , as i fear , the agenda is not extended , and if , in the end , as the current state of affairs would suggest , an excess of caution results in a conference which makes nothing more than cosmetic changes to the treaties and avoids any substantial modifications .
the integration of the financial perspectives into the treaty will thereby be a medium-term financial plan which will be agreed between parliament and the council .
let us remember that the financial perspectives procedure has brought budgetary stability to the european union .
nevertheless , parliament believes that the integration of the financial perspectives into the treaty will mean that , as well as stability , there will be sufficient flexibility to allow for a review of those perspectives when necessary .
this confusion will lead to conflict year after year .
with regard to the classification of expenditure , which this house has also long wanted to see , we must find an institutional point of balance which combines the european parliament ' s requests for a greater degree of codecision in budgetary matters with the defence of the privileged nature of certain expenditure which forms the basis of the european union ' s economic and social cohesion .
however , let us remember that , if what we want is an autonomous financial system for the union , we must at the same time create a fair tax system .
sooner or later we will have to be sufficiently progressive in terms of own resources as a basis for this fair tax system .
i am convinced that this opportunity for representatives of the national parliaments of both the union countries and the candidate countries to meet and discuss future strategies and the implications of the intergovernmental conference is extremely valuable and must not be passed up .
there is an excellent resolution on the table which refers to the many necessary reforms .
cooperation should be more flexible and each member state must retain a commissioner .
if the european governments do not change their attitudes soon , a treaty will be drawn up in nice which guarantees to cripple the union once it has been enlarged .
first number : 700 .
limiting the number of members of the european parliament to 700 would not be a cause for concern were it not that it would render our parliament less representative .
we must reaffirm that it is our parliament ' s prime and absolute task to represent the people and the peoples of europe in all their diversity .
second number : two thirds .
if a simple majority is good enough for the investment of the commission , then the same majority should suffice for a vote of no confidence .
the report proposes the year 2009 as the date for electing meps from transnational lists .
now this is a case of either or : either our parliament decides this measure is not a good one , which would mean abandoning it - even in 2009 - or , like the greens , it must admit that such lists are vital if we want to create real families of thought in europe , in which case this important political debate can begin by the time of the 2004 elections .
this timid igc 2000 can in no way represent an end result , but only the first step towards a constitution .
we have a framework agreed between nations and not one imposed on the nations .
this would be a disaster for my own country , portugal , as for other smaller or medium-sized member states .
today ' s statement by president-in-office of the council gama has inspired me with a little more confidence , but i still see no evidence of political will on the part of the other member states .
extending majority voting in the council must lead to codecision rights for the european parliament .
i would like to ask the council how it proposes to pull off the stroke of excluding a certain member state from taking part in discussions without any legal basis , when it needs this state ' s support in order to achieve unanimity in the council on treaty amendments .
i cannot support the proposal in recital 29 of the report to make the procedure for suspending a member state easier .
how i vote at tomorrow ' s vote on this resolution will depend on the outcome of the vote on these issues .
madam president , the igc should prepare the eu for the reorganisation needed to bring about the complete process of enlargement that is in hand .
it is important that the report proposes that closer cooperation should be facilitated .
the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party has recommended that the principle of flexibility should also be realised in the form of greater scope for cooperation for those countries that cannot or do not want to accept the union ' s statutes in their entirety .
in making its review the group of the liberal , democrat and reform party states that flexibility might lead to a larger concentric europe , composed of a federal core and a less integrated outer circle .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , what are the issues at stake in this intergovernmental conference ?
manifestly , the first and main issue is the quality of the decision-making process in the union .
but we have to acknowledge that undoubtedly we will also need this instrument .
that is what this parliament said when it first stated its position and i think that in a way we have helped persuade the community of heads of state and government to listen to our refrain .
but today i want to address those meps who see , behind this closer cooperation , the risk of too far-reaching consultation between the large countries .
to that end , let us authorise closer cooperation when one third of the member states takes part or is involved , and let us authorise this closer cooperation by a qualified majority , after obtaining parliament ' s assent .
however , the majority of my conservative colleagues have voted to reject the report and will vote accordingly in this house .
the conservative delegation regards many of the ideas in the report as centralising , syndicalist , unnecessary and backward-looking .
that is the nature of democracy and democratic decisions .
madam president , the report by the two rapporteurs is very ambitious , very ahead of the times , but it has two major defects , which ought to be corrected by the vote in plenary .
firstly , to generalise the system of dual simple majority voting is not the panacea of the future integration of europe .
a principle of that kind could induce public opinion in the member states and the national parliaments to reject that system for the most sensitive issues which are in fact exceptions to the general rule .
the underlying principle of " one man - one vote " is unacceptable .
it conflicts with article 190 of the treaty which provides that the number of elected members must ensure the appropriate representation of the peoples of the states brought together in the community .
on the contrary , if we want decisions proposed on the commission ' s initiative to gain wide support in all the member states , it is vital for them all to be represented .
the important vote we will be holding tomorrow will , i hope , enable the european parliament to put an end to this ambiguity and to make some adjustments .
only a more politically realistic proposal will have a chance of being taken into consideration .
madam president , at a time when the future of the european union depends more than ever on the balance and smooth functioning of our institutions , i want to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs , giorgos dimitrakopoulos and jo leinen , for the high quality of their work .
we all agree today that we must adopt institutional and political reforms prior to any enlargement of the union .
the time has come for europe to be a power capable of genuine political expression , of sustaining a social project and framing a common foreign and defence policy .
but europe will only be democratic if the people themselves determine the principles and rules of its organisation .
i am happy that the dimitrakopoulos report takes this aspiration into account in the framework of a constitutional process aimed at simplifying and clarifying the community treaties .
commissioner , i hope the representatives of the member states will embark on real reforms and take the measure of the issues at stake in the intergovernmental conference , so as to make this century into the century of europe .
after all , the igc should prepare the union for enlargement , and this enlargement will require the current member states to make sacrifices .
in addition , it should , of course , bring europe closer to its citizens , because the distance between brussels and our citizens is still far too great .
simply reducing a democratic deficit is not sufficient to improve contact with the citizen .
this is provided for in amendment no 162 .
once enlargement has taken place , closer cooperation could do a great service to a union containing a still greater diversity of member states within its borders .
to read the text of the committee on constitutional affairs , you would almost believe that the european federalists have already won the day : a commission that does not contain representatives from every member state , a parliament in which even the representatives of the medium-sized states no longer carry any weight , and a council that essentially bases its majorities on 51 % of the total population of the member states .
the text we adopt tomorrow will , i hope , be a different one , a more balanced text that is geared to continuing teamwork between large and small states , and which continues to respect the distinguishing features of our european peoples and states , and therefore does not make even more demands of the citizens of europe , who have enough problems with the degree of centralisation in brussels as it is .
mr dimitrakopoulos and mr leinen put forward a proposal in recital 29 to modify the procedure for suspending a member state in the event of serious democratic and human rights violations .
therefore let us dispense with hypocritical amendments to articles 6 and 7 of the eu treaty .
it is important that each country should have a member in the commission .
the commission must therefore be able to draw upon knowledge and experience from all the member states .
it is therefore important that the treaty should reflect the difference between civil and military cooperation .
a european military alliance should not , therefore , be created within the framework of the eu ' s institutions but between individual states .
finally , i want to thank the rapporteurs for a very good report and to express my hope that the citizens ' charter will usher in the new treaty .
we have to strike a balance between efficiency , democracy and member state equality .
above all , we have to be able to restore confidence of our citizens in decision making in the european union .
the balance between the small and the large member states must also be preserved in the council so that double majority voting can never be acceptable under any circumstances .
madam president , the constitutional questions we are debating today are highly controversial , as the vote in committee clearly shows .
in fact 12 members voted for and 12 voted against .
but i find it reassuring that so many members agreed that the length of the shopping list of proposals contained in the report ' s 52 paragraphs and 58 sub-paragraphs is exaggerated and that , as things stand , there is a risk that the intergovernmental conference will not take it seriously .
i want to dissociate myself from demands such as that we should cut my country ' s delegation in the european parliament by one third .
with 6 members it is materially impossible to follow up all the dossiers that are crucial to our country .
it is easier to divide up the work and to specialise in a large delegation : even if the largest delegation , comprising 99 members , was reduced by a third , they would still be able to share out the work .
for the time being , it is enough to propose that the seats in the european parliament should be allotted on the basis of a degressive proportional system , with a minimum number of seats per member state , while of course respecting article 190 of the treaty .
in the case of a qualified-majority council decision , it is inconceivable to provide for a simple majority of member states .
we must have a majority of two thirds of the member states , even if that means providing at the same time for a simple majority of member states representing a majority of the total eu population .
there can be no question of restricting unanimous council voting to decisions of a constitutional nature .
i hope the idea of not allocating one commissioner to each member state is well and truly dead .
finally , if we really need closer cooperation , it must involve at least half of the member states , otherwise we risk ending up with something like the french directory .
this document contains other incongruities too , especially in relation to the budget , which fortunately have no chance of success in the council and even less chance of being ratified by national parliaments that have any self-respect .
madam president , i wonder which of these is more serious : what the council has done by means of an intergovernmental method , once again , to reform the treaties and an extraordinarily limited agenda for this igc , bearing in mind the challenges facing us , or the report that we are going to adopt tomorrow in this house .
i believe that our report is more serious .
they are consistent with what this parliament has always demanded : more democracy and efficiency for the european union .
furthermore , in this respect , i believe that the effort of the rapporteurs in drawing up the original draft and seeking a compromise through the amendments will lead to a position which should be taken into account by this parliament and by the national governments .
madam president , i would also like to welcome the efforts of the portuguese presidency at the moment , and ask certain governments - i am not going to say which ones - to be a little bit more generous when it comes to european construction .
madam president , enlargement and its strategic , political and economic consequences for the european union cannot remain issues undiscussed by the public or viewed exclusively from the national perspective .
this is why the debate caused by the presentation of the european parliament ' s position on this promising intergovernmental conference is vital in understanding this new phase of european construction which is both risky and open to question .
we are pleased that this contribution from parliament stresses , as the main themes and guiding principles , the democratisation , efficiency and greater supervision of the european institutions , exactly where the respective deficits have been most felt and where the risks of disintegration , caused by the significant increase in the number of member states , were greatest .
we fortunately have the opportunity to improve these points tomorrow in plenary .
in my opinion , the grounding of the european project in the dual legitimacy of a union of peoples and a union of states is not reflected in the end result of this report ' s proposals .
at a time when the european parliament should be achieving a consensus which could act as an important reference , politically speaking , for the intergovernmental conference , our position is cause for regret .
i would also encourage you to ensure that the igc agenda is extended to questions which we regard as essential , such as the charter of fundamental rights .
i am also grateful for the many suggestions put forward for the report compiled by myself and mr dimitrakopoulos .
our role is to be the driving force behind further european unification , and that is the spirit in which this parliamentary report , which we are to vote on tomorrow , has been compiled .
i believe we have struck a balance between europe of the states and europe of the citizens .
therefore i hope that this intergovernmental conference will use the opportunity to at last restore the balance between the two institutions , parliament and the council that is , and to give parliament more powers .
i too feel that it is extremely important to strike a balance between the large and small countries .
there will be far more small countries than large countries in the enlarged union .
we have an excellent report for voting on tomorrow .
comments were made about the council ' s absence during the address by the austrian president to this parliament .
there is a clear boundary around the work of the portuguese presidency with regard to the functioning of the institutions and the role of austria in these institutions .
this was totally obvious from my intervention in this house when this issue was first debated .
within the european union we have met all the requirements allowing austria to act and participate fully in the european institutions and in their own functioning as a country .
we are therefore not confusing any of our positions and we refuse , due to a mere internal political provocation , to consider in this debate issues which have nothing to do with the european parliament and the european institutions .
as i pointed out this morning , they have sought the greatest possible convergence between the commission and the european parliament , in order to imbue these negotiations with the political impetus they need .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i just want to make three comments at the conclusion of this debate .
firstly , many speakers discussed the question of the equilibrium between what are termed the large and the small states .
the first option is one commissioner per member state on a permanent basis , all sitting at the same time , but with a commission which will one day have 30 or 35 commissioners , which will inevitably mean a hierarchy within the college .
the second option is a commission with one commissioner per member state , but not all sitting at the same time , which would mean the commission would remain more collegiate by nature .
that , ladies and gentlemen , remains our aim : to establish an equilibrium between the small and the large states .
second concern : the role of the european parliament as the driving force , as referred to by jo leinen .
as i said this morning , i really believe that we , and you , ladies and gentlemen , during your term of office , must spend some time explaining these european issues not just in your constituencies , your countries , but everywhere else too , to all the citizens , and as often as possible .
president napolitano proposed the idea of an interparliamentary conference .
of course we know that history will not stop at the end of the year 2000 and that there will be further institutional changes .
there is no way that later , when we have 20 , 25 or 30 member states , we will be able to do what we did not manage to do either in amsterdam or today , this year , for lack of political will .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
within the international community , either individually or through the european union as a whole , the european countries have made an important contribution .
this intervention is very important in tackling the problem of nearly 16 million people currently at risk throughout this area .
at this precise moment , the executive director of the world food programme is in addis ababa for discussions with the ethiopian government on this issue , which involves technical and practical problems in transporting the food .
we cannot separate from this issue the current political and military position in ethiopia .
however , these concerns are the centre of attention not only for the commission but also for the council .
unfortunately , sometimes we cannot react as rapidly as we would like to the various situations of humanitarian need and shortage .
i am standing in for my colleague , commissioner nielson , who would have liked to have been able to respond himself .
so we improve our capacity to deal with the humanitarian problems in spite of the difficulties .
the ethiopian government has asked for 821 000 tonnes of food aid , 25 % more than in recent years .
let me also correct an inaccuracy that is circulating as a result of an oxfam statement which claimed that the commission provided only 50 000 tonnes to ethiopia last year .
during that time nearly 40 % of our total aid to ethiopia has been in food assistance or food security programmes : some eur 875 million ' s worth , eur 250 million in the last four years alone .
i hope that letter gets wider circulation .
one of the things that she said in her letter - and i guess she speaks with almost more authority on this subject than anyone else - is : " the european union , together with member states , remains the biggest donor of food aid to ethiopia " .
we will continue to devote our full attention to this crisis until it is over , and our people in echo on the ground will continue to work tirelessly to get help to where it is needed .
we are looking urgently for alternatives , including better use of the port of berbera through rapid improvements to the road from berbera into ethiopia .
it is intensely frustrating that as millions starve , governments spend small fortunes on guns and weaponry to wage war against each other when the only war they should be waging is a war against starvation , a war for food security , a war against poverty and environmental degradation , a war in which we are morally bound to help them .
once again , we have pop stars and celebrities criticising the institutions of europe and national governments for doing too little too late .
it is amazing how quickly some people become experts when a situation like this arises and they can see some publicity , without knowing more of the background to the overall position .
we must watch the situation in eritrea and balance humanitarian aid there , if required .
i recently spent a week in both ethiopia and eritrea .
i saw children with serious malnutrition and in need of health care , as well as food and proper shelter .
we never seem to learn a lesson from the past .
put a freeze on the military trade , try to reach a peace agreement and meanwhile , deploy your military lorry capacity and manpower where they are needed .
the organisation of african unity and the european union must exert maximum pressure on the governments of ethiopia and eritrea to settle their dispute in algiers , and aid workers must gain safe access to the population without delay .
all we do is try to put the fire out with occasional aid , without a clear or decisive policy for prevention although we know perfectly well that famine in africa , and in the third world in general , happens periodically .
the gravity of the situation and the need for our solidarity with these people to result in exceptional and priority action lead me finally to ask the commission , and particularly commissioners patten and nielson , to keep us regularly and closely informed about how the situation is developing and especially the measures which they intend to use or are developing to ease this situation .
mr president , the ethiopian government has blamed the international community for not being sufficiently alert in its aid efforts to feed its hungry population .
the donors , including the european union , are said not to have kept their promises .
misplaced because this statement is made by a government which has been embroiled in an absurd war over borders with its neighbour , eritrea , for two years now .
mr president , famine and ethiopia : these are two words sadly etched in our memories .
in the horn of africa , which has become the site of every conceivable scourge , 16 million victims of famine , of which 8 million are in ethiopia , are awaiting aid .
nonetheless , in a region torn apart by a rearguard conflict , this crisis leaves a particularly bitter taste , because every penny paid to buy a gun , to buy ammunition , aggravates an already precarious economic , social and nutritional situation .
we must demand that eritrea and ethiopia freeze their military activities so that all the assets , all the logistical and human capabilities of these countries are put at the service of their peoples .
mr president , misery and death in ethiopia were on our screens four years ago .
the cameramen left but misery and death did not leave ethiopia .
famine , disease and death remain the hallmarks of these countries .
i accept the difficulties of the logistics but that means less than a kilo per person .
no time limit is given , in other words it is a kilo that has to last forever .
these measures are palliative .
commissioner patten ' s words made clear not only an objective awareness of the work already carried out but also an absolute awareness that this situation is intolerable and that the european commission will be determined on this issue , that it will take specific action and also closely monitor future developments .
as for the council , i should like to say that there is great interest in ensuring that situations of this kind can be permanently followed and monitored in close coordination with the commission .
it is important that an objective awareness is created within the european union that humanitarian issues must be dealt with in an increasingly committed manner and that the european union and its member states must , within the relevant international organisations , ensure priority attention for these issues .
dialogue with the african authorities is essential , as is dialogue with the sub-regional authorities .
if we cannot organise the international community within the global international organisations and within the more regional organisations , we will not have any response to all the crises which are systematically affecting the weakest countries in particular .
thank you very much minister .
the vote will take place on thursday .
it would seem far more logical to give this leading role to the european commission , notably commissioner patten , to implement this stability pact promptly and efficiently . . ( pt ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i must start by congratulating the rapporteur , mr lagendijk , on his excellent and important report .
between 1991 and 1999 , the total aid from the eu to south-eastern europe , including that from the eu as a whole and the member states individually , was in excess of eur 19.3 billion .
the lisbon european council confirmed that our overall objective remains the greatest possible integration of the countries in the region within europe ' s political and economic system .
as a result , the rapporteur concludes that it will be necessary to create a type of medium-term stabilisation and regional development programme .
most of the countries already benefit from trade preferences and the lisbon special european council confirmed that the stabilisation and association agreements should be preceded by greater asymmetric trade liberalisation thereby specifically favouring these countries in their bilateral trade with eu countries .
the idea underlying the stabilisation and association process is sufficiently broad and flexible to ensure a constant project in this area .
as with other comprehensive agreements , we therefore hope to be able to establish interim agreements covering the period between the signature and ratification of these agreements , bearing in mind that normally almost twenty months pass between these two events .
it is also worthwhile to remember that we already have contractual relations in the form of trade and cooperation agreements with albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia .
bearing in mind the request made by the local authorities , bosnia-herzegovina was sent a guide whose use will help towards preparing a viability study on negotiations for an agreement of the same type .
this work is moving forward at a good pace given , of course , that in this specific case , we must be careful and not create excessive expectations , as the reality of the situation there does not allow us to be overly optimistic in this respect .
the rapporteur also refers briefly to the stability pact on which we have been cooperating with these five countries and with the countries involved in the enlargement process .
we believe that reciprocal commitment is the key to the pact ' s success and i feel that this point was made very clear in the recent discussions at the commission and world bank conference .
the commitment of the countries in the region to implement institutional policy reforms and to create an environment allowing economic progress is a fundamental element in this pact .
in return , the international community is supporting the reform commitments and the donors and financial institutions have promised or mobilised a total of eur 2.4 billion .
of this amount , the european union alone , that is , the commission and member states combined , have promised or mobilised eur 1.08 billion .
the international community has financed in particular a quick-start package of eur 1.8 billion announced at the conference and has made available the necessary financing to accelerate the preparation and implementation of projects and initiatives in the short-term package .
in the meeting of 20 march , the council invited the commission to work on a proposal and to present this to the council with a view to including montenegro in the agency ' s mandate .
finally , the council has invited the secretary-general and high representative , under the authority of the council presidency and in full cooperation with the commission , to ensure the coherence of the policies for the western balkans .
the donor conference had a positive outcome , at least on paper .
we could have , and in fact should have , made a start on them in the autumn .
however , the wars in the region were more expensive in every respect than all the necessary measures will prove to be .
the idea of having a stability pact is a sound one because it is geared primarily towards cross-border measures , and thus to prevention of conflicts .
however , stability in the region depends to a large extent in most spheres on the eradication of criminal power structures and the construction of structures befitting a state under the rule of law , as is the case in bosnia for example .
the parties of karadzic and kraijnik gained the most support .
they have tolerated , or even promoted , parallel structures for too long .
efforts to initiate and undertake judicial reform , in bosnia for example , are in a state of disarray .
mr president , the report on the stabilisation and association process for the countries in eastern europe we are debating today attempts , and i believe successfully so , to formulate a stable political framework with which to address the balkan tragedy .
secondly : the boundaries of the states in the area are non-negotiable , even if it proves necessary in critical cases to adopt flexible forms of administrative autonomy and greater decentralisation .
positive results will emerge through development , democracy and prosperity .
i hope that the strong convergence of support for the lagendijk report achieved in the committee on foreign affairs will find the same response in parliament , and thereby express the desire of us all for a positive and stable outcome .
it is in fact the case that a gender task force has been established under working party 1 , but this has not happened because of any initiative from above but because of an initiative from below when a number of women have - if i may put it like this - approached the conference table and asked if it were not unreasonable for them , in one way or another , to have a central place in the whole of the reconstruction work .
it is a number of quite concrete , down-to-earth things these women have proposed , such as developing a proper programme for women and involving women in the general development plans .
for the moment , i will just note that the pact ' s real aim is to ensure the political and economic dependence of the countries in the area , to plunder their wealth and to overexploit their workforce .
and the question is this : what principle of international law are they basing their actions on ?
firstly , the stability pact for south-eastern europe focuses on regional cooperation in the balkans .
secondly , i consider paragraph 26 in the lagendijk report to be a fine idea .
we had a discussion on macedonia recently - i had the opportunity to draft a report on this , and would again like to thank those of you who supported me - in fact we were debating a stabilisation and association agreement .
but there is a new government and attitudes towards the refugee situation , economic development and , in particular , europe , have changed .
if we have a few cornerstones of regional development , such as macedonia , croatia , and hopefully also albania soon , then it will be possible to create a network of stability in south-eastern europe .
there is a final point i would particularly like to address : the donor conference , which was highly successful - i am grateful to the president-in-office of the council , but i would particularly like to thank the commissioner , both of whom helped to make the donor conference a success - concentrated above all on material infrastructure , and indeed that is what we need in south-eastern europe .
the european union must conclude that it should respect the frontiers in the balkans , and that is something quite different from its attitude towards milosevic .
we have states such as bosnia-herzegovina and albania in which the state is scarcely functioning , and then the two decisive challenges , namely yugoslavia , or serbia , where it is a question of doing everything we can to foster democratisation and develop a long-term strategy for the europeanisation of serbia .
secondly , kosovo , where we will never achieve success unless elected political structures come into being there , along with a long-term vision of what is to happen to this region , which will never again be a serbian province .
but that is not the only factor adversely affecting the stability pact , it is also suffering from a lack of credibility on the part of the international organisations and also the european union , which owing to a confusion of competences , wastage , and mismanagement , are displaying traits that would be dismissed as being typical of the balkans , were it not for the fact that this is happening in our own organisations .
we are losing a great deal in the way of credit and respect in this region , and this respect and credibility are fundamentally even more important than the promises of funding that are made and then not kept .
i truly believe we must put this situation in order in the european union , primarily by strengthening the commission ' s role in the matter .
secondly , it should be borne in mind that the regional approach is appropriate and important , and that it is important for the european union to play a guiding role throughout this matter .
finally , i would like to mention two other points : the former yugoslavia and crime .
puglia , for example , is a region which has to tackle crime organisations with a base in our country as well as elsewhere .
it is fair to say that our work for the lisbon council was very much motivated by the strong feeling that unless we can make a success of our efforts in the balkans , the whole credibility of our attempts to construct a common foreign and security policy will be shattered .
it is enormously important that we rise to the challenge in the balkans .
a point we made to the heads of government in lisbon in our report - which was very much reflected in the week that i spent recently in the region - is that the stabilisation and association process has to be at the heart of our strategy .
unfortunately , given the fact that our budget is based on commitments and payments , and not just payments unlike the budgets in almost all the member states , that is a particularly important factor .
we are not just talking about infrastructure in terms of hardware , we must also talk about infrastructure in terms of software .
that includes the rule of law , democratisation , the sort of civil society projects to which the honourable gentleman was referring ; and it includes education - a point i will come back to in a moment .
i announced yesterday agreement in the commission on a rapid reaction facility .
we will be coming forward to parliament in the next few months with our new regulation for assistance to the west balkans , which i hope will make it more rapid , more flexible and will , of course , have to include sufficient funding for projects supporting gender issues .
i can think of no single model of successful economic or political development which does not include at its heart sensible programmes to ensure that women can develop their full potential and play a full role in their communities .
i hope we are at last going to see more progress on the cleaning up of the danube , which is crucial for the region .
finally , the honourable member asked about the scale of our financial commitments to the balkans .
this year we will be spending about eur 540m in the western balkans .
it must be said that it does not involve huge increases in expenditure elsewhere but we have to provide support in a country like croatia where there is a good and decent government trying to do a difficult job in extremely problematic circumstances .
my final point : we are clearly talking in the balkans about building peace and security , not just in our backyard but in our front yard too .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0216 / 2000 ) .
as they deal with the same subject , questions nos 1 , 2 and 3 will be taken together .
question no 1 by ( h-0255 / 00 ) : subject : flagrant violation by turkey of the rule of law and human rights the leader of the people ' s democracy party of turkey , together with 17 other members of the party ' s leadership , has been sentenced to a three-year and nine months ' term of imprisonment for supporting the hunger strike that took place in solidarity with abdullah ocalan when he was handed over to the turkish secret services in kenya .
question no 2 by ( h-0286 / 00 ) : subject : human rights violations by turkey in december 1999 turkey became a candidate country for accession to the european union .
article 10 of the conclusions of the helsinki council presidency states that turkey must fulfil the general accession criteria , and in particular the copenhagen criteria , if it is to become a member of the european union .
turkey was named by the helsinki european council as a candidate country for accession to the european union .
this status places turkey in absolutely the same position as any other candidate country in terms of both obligations and benefits .
turkey is therefore currently involved in a process in which its situation must be assessed in light of the criteria of the copenhagen european council .
this accession partnership will define the priority areas for reform on which the european union considers that turkey must concentrate its efforts in order to comply , hopefully in a progressive , capable and complete manner , with the copenhagen criteria .
it is no mere chance that on the next day turkey ' s leaders declared that turkey has become a candidate for accession without attached conditions .
with regard to defining the pre-accession strategy and the accession partnership , turkey ' s problems will certainly be paid close attention , particularly in terms of respect for the basic criteria of acting in accordance with european standards .
but that cannot happen .
you see , belgrade can be bombed , but not moscow , beijing or ankara .
if there is no question , the council is not obliged to answer , only to listen , as you know , mr seixas da costa .
i recommend to all of you that you begin with the question before making a declaration .
secondly , would the council be prepared , in this whole process , to suspend or cancel obligations of the european union relating to the pre-accession process as long as the people we are talking about remain in prison ?
we must draw from this the appropriate conclusions about how the development in the turkish position on the cypriot issue may also affect the development of the turkish position in its approximation towards the european union .
on such a delicate issue as the interpretation of a serious situation , like the development in the cypriot situation and turkey ' s approximation towards the european union , we must be very careful in our choice of words .
however , i feel that i made it clear that there is a direct link between turkey ' s approximation process and its position on the cypriot issue .
question no 4 by ( h-0294 / 00 ) : subject : blatant persecution and violation of the rights of the assyrian-chaldeans in turkey tens of thousands of assyrian-chaldeans in turkey living in the south-east of the country have found refuge in member states of the eu after being persecuted by the turkish government which has destroyed many of their homes , closed and raised to the ground their churches and banned the use of their language and teaching in this language .
they do have a human rights dimension which obviously must be tackled - and we will be vigilant in this respect - but they are essentially administrative .
the council will be vigilant and the commission will also raise these issues during the pre-accession negotiations .
mr president-in-office , i cannot say your answer is satisfactory .
we are talking here about two very ancient peoples who have been subjected to systematic genocide by the turkish regime , a genocide perhaps not so impressive as in armenia , but just as effective .
i would like to ask whether you can be more specific .
question no 5 by ( h-0262 / 00 ) : subject : renewed tension in kosovo the results of the ' peaceful ' intervention by nato forces in kosovo are generally acknowledged to be deplorable .
the council accepts the urgent need to find a solution to the continued outbreaks of ethnic violence , particularly against the serbs , gypsies and other non-albanian communities in kosovo .
the council has urged all the political leaders in kosovo to adopt urgent measures to combat the escalation of violence , to reject expressions of extremism and to support unmik and kfor .
it is very important that the council manages to further develop the progress already made in the reconciliation between the ethnic groups and that resolution 1244 can be put into practice .
we are committed to the process of democratisation and coexistence in kosovo .
only responsibility-sharing by representatives of the minorities can lead to the construction of a multi-ethnic kosovo .
we should all ask ourselves whether everyone , particularly within kosovo itself , is interested in the existence of a multi-ethnic kosovo .
the council places great importance on the careful preparation by unmik and the osce of local elections to be held this year , including the provisions on voting by absentees and the participation of minorities .
in terms of supporting this process of democratisation and coexistence , the european union has been working together with other international partners to re-establish daily life for the whole of kosovo ' s population , whatever their ethnic background .
in addition to the important bilateral assistance given by the member states , the european community has allocated humanitarian aid for 1999 to 2000 to the amount of eur 429 million for the kosovar refugees , displaced persons within the country and those returning home .
the aid for reconstruction and the special financial assistance , including the support for unmik , will total eur 437 million between 1999 and 2000 .
unfortunately , at times the practical efficiency of these actions is not sufficient to end an unstable situation beset by tensions which we hope will decrease in the future .
mr alavanos , i believe it was clear from what i said and in fact you recognised yourself that the general objective of the european union and the international community is to respect the terms of security council resolution 1244 , particularly on the establishment of a democratic and multi-ethnic kosovo .
i believe that lisbon , the ancient olisipo , was founded by ulysses .
we must realise that the international community ' s position , which is not brilliant in terms of the practical application of these measures , is the only one which can resolve a conflict on which the international community was only called to act due to the total inability to find a solution within the former yugoslavia .
it was precisely the situation created in the former yugoslavia which caused this reaction .
the problem now facing us is to try and ensure that the structures created outside the democratic process , simply because this did not exist in the former yugoslavia , allow an approach of solely political action to be adopted in a democratic kosovo .
we will try to continue exerting pressure in this respect and we believe that renewing in some way the institutional organisation of civil society through independent elections may contribute significantly to this stability .
this mandate also includes the development of a phased economic recovery plan .
this means that the individual cases mentioned in the member ' s question should be dealt with directly by the un secretary-general ' s special representative for kosovo , who is responsible for the territorial administration of kosovo , or by the foreign minister of the member state in which the undertakings are established .
the council assumes general political responsibility for the eu ' s participation in unmik which is focussed on reconstruction and economic rehabilitation .
the council presidency has no knowledge of this issue .
each country is normally obliged to protect the actions of its undertakings within the international sphere .
each country has structures to protect its citizens and undertakings internationally and for this reason there are specific mechanisms which we all use every day in our international action .
the european union is not a country .
that is unless we reach a point at which national governments prove to be incompetent in protecting their own undertakings .
mr president , an essential element in the reconstruction of post-war society is always that recovery of the local economy should be as rapid as possible , so that it becomes viable once more .
mr andersson , to answer your question i should like to start by confirming that a coordinated approach at european level to the information technology and telecommunications sectors is essential for the future development of the european union .
in particular the special meeting invited the council and commission to prepare an action plan on e-europe , which will be presented , to the european council in june .
the idea of launching an agency devoted to information technology was presented at the lisbon european council in the document provided by the swedish government .
this idea was not followed up but it responds to our concerns and will definitely be considered and developed in the future .
you rightly make the point that on many occasions specifying these measures may create and worsen inequalities .
in the meantime , the governments have decided that the creation of a new structure and bureaucratic mechanism with high costs is not necessary .
they in fact consider that the structures which currently exist for monitoring this process are sufficient for this purpose .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , as an austrian i am extremely proud of the fact that the council presidency has focussed on development in the it sector .
this process has this national dimension of a commitment on objectives and it is therefore obvious that there are no financial resources for this other than those available in the budget of each country .
in the other dimension , in which recourse to the european investment bank is possible , there is a set of actions within the competence of the eu itself , which not only complements previous actions but also ensures greater coherence between the eu ' s programmes and actions in this area .
the commission has been extremely active in this field and the e-europe programme presented by the commission and whose action plan will be approved at the feira european council in june provides new guidelines for this area and a new reorientation of community policies on this issue .
as the author is not present , question no 8 lapses .
we all know the efforts made by the international community in this area and we remember the conclusions of the beijing declaration of 1995 on this issue .
greater involvement is needed in political actions , in the training process and in the administrative process in general .
however , it is the responsibility of each national government to carry out the necessary reforms of its own system of representation in order to guarantee adequate participation by women .
these issues are now being regulated at european level and recommendations are being made as a result of the treaty of amsterdam .
the helsinki and cologne summits specifically gave the portuguese presidency the job of strengthening this new protection policy .
the european union must be progressive .
women must clearly be involved in political decisions - also decisions with regard to peace - and i ask the portuguese presidency to make some reference in this respect .
bearing in mind these limits , it will be rather difficult , when we set out to assess the new common foreign and security policy structures in terms of defence , to say to the military committee or the military staff that half of their soldiers should be female .
this is because it is up to the member states whether or not they have female generals or brigadiers .
question no 10 by ( h-0276 / 00 ) : subject : participation of research partners from the developing countries in environmental research programmes funded by the eu the key to the development of the developing countries is their ability to participate in development work themselves both as definers of problems and as seekers for solutions .
the general objectives of this international scientific cooperation are also set out in this framework programme and include support for the development of a euro-mediterranean partnership and a contribution to the economic , social and scientific development of developing countries .
in december 1998 , the council also adopted rules on participation by undertakings , research centres and universities and on disseminating research results in order to implement the fifth framework programme .
article 6 of the framework programme authorises the participation by entities of third countries in specific research and technological development activities under the horizontal programme on the international role of community research .
in january last year , the council adopted the specific programmes for the fifth framework programme which set out the objectives and activities for the various categories of third countries .
with regard to mediterranean non-community countries , an indicative allocation of eur 55 million was established for research and development activities such as integrated coastal management in the mediterranean , including environmental aspects , water management , natural resource management , conservation and restoration of the cultural heritage , socio-economic modernisation and so on .
with regard to developing countries , an indicative allocation of eur 210 million was made available for specific activities such as those involving the adoption of innovations , the promotion of a sustainable relationship between population pressure , food safety and the use and management of ecosystems , the improvement of productivity and the prevention of damage to natural resources .
in addition , a grant system was created under a specific programme which allows graduates and doctoral students from developing countries and mediterranean non-community countries to work on european projects .
mr president-in-office , i thank you for this reply .
as the author is not present , question no 11 lapses .
question no 12 by ( h-0277 / 00 ) : subject : common defence policy at the igc there is a ' shortlist ' of proposals for the igc , according to which the conference will confine itself largely to ' institutional ' issues .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the helsinki european council authorised the portuguese presidency to establish the eu ' s interim security and defence structures as from 1 march of this year .
it is still not clear at this stage of our debate within the european union whether or not amendments to the treaty will be necessary .
the portuguese presidency will present a report to the feira european council in june giving an assessment of the state of progress and an opinion on whether or not these issues should be included within the igc .
mr president , mr president-in-office , european defence policy is at present being drafted , and different countries are involved in the task .
there are member states in nato and there are countries which are not in nato .
we hope to ensure that all the various cultures which exist within the union are compatible .
i would thank the council .
the crisis management and humanitarian actions specified in the petersberg tasks to which the helsinki european council referred are actions which may be carried out by the european union .
question no 13 by ( h-0283 / 00 ) : subject : violation of the right to freedom of expression the court of first instance of thessaloniki , presided over by a single magistrate , recently banned from circulation a book by the author mimis androulakis , describing it as irreverent .
i should like to explain that , under article 6 ( 1 ) of the treaty on european union , as amended by the treaty of amsterdam , the union respects a set of basic principles by reference to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms .
the underlying aim of this article is to establish a kind of political supervision over the actions of member states and to ensure that democratic principles and values are respected .
however , article 6 cannot be invoked for the purpose of any type of interference in the administration of the internal affairs of member states , particularly at judicial level .
the union has no competence to intercede in the exercise of legal power by the member states .
therefore , the council cannot interfere in the decision-making of the authorities .
the judgement delivered by the court of first instance of thessaloniki , which is a judgement of a legal body of a member state on a specific case , may be subject within the greek legal system to an appeal to the higher national courts .
having exhausted this recourse to the greek courts , there would always be recourse to the court of human rights .
mr sjostedt , the member states undertake to act within the framework determined by the treaty .
if we were to intervene in a case like this , we would clearly be transposing to the community dimension an issue for which there is a whole range of recourse in a country which fully respects human and citizens ' rights .
thank you very much , mr seixas da costa .
since the time allotted to questions to the council has elapsed , questions nos 14 to 31 will be replied to in writing .
and resumed at 9.00 p.m. ) address by mr klestil , president of the republic of austria mr president , you expressed the wish to speak today at our parliament ' s formal sitting .
i took part in the opening at the invitation of the board , and i said in my speech that i fully understood why people should fear a resurgence of racism , intolerance , xenophobia and anti-semitism - not just in austria but also in other countries and regions of europe .
therefore , in relation to the size of our country , we have offered more refugees sanctuary than any other member state of the european union . ( applause ) think of the waves of refugees that came from the east in 1945 , from hungary in 1956 , from czechoslovakia in 1968 and those that have come from former yugoslavia over the past decade .
in addition , austria has helped jewish emigrants from the former soviet union to travel to israel and other countries or to stay with us .
there have certainly been many shortcomings as far as our more recent history is concerned , and we are more conscious of them these days .
it is these very people - and this never ceases to move me - who have often continued to nurture a deep love for what used to be their native land , despite their terrible fate .
there is still a great deal of work to be done on the reappraisal of our past .
i believe that it is in the interests of all member states to commit themselves to obtaining a clear picture of the true situation in austria , curtailing criticism , endeavouring to make common cause , and helping to speedily resolve , by means of dialogue , what is a difficult situation for all concerned . ( applause ) i am also convinced that it is in the interests of the european parliament to see to it that work within the european institutions proceeds in the proper manner and in accordance with the law , thereby securing austria ' s full and unconditional cooperation ... ( applause ) ...
particularly in view of the major issues facing us , such as eu enlargement , reform of the institutions and the european security policy .
ladies and gentlemen , austria is a stable democracy and a functioning state under the rule of law .
therefore , working together with the leaders of the two governing parties , i have drafted a declaration which compels the government to uphold european fundamental values and principles of law .
i have declared before this house on two previous occasions , in 1992 and 1998 , that in view of its history and its position at the heart of europe , austria feels it has a special mission to make a committed contribution to the completion of the european unification and peace process .
there is no doubt but that austria has a special interest in the enlargement of the european union .
only enlargement will afford us the unique opportunity of creating an area of peace , stability and prosperity at the heart of europe .
we must also consider the position of the small and medium-sized states within the european union .
all the people of europe must play their part in this .
the second phase of the internal reform process began with the opening of the intergovernmental conference almost two months ago .
austria welcomes with open arms the european parliament ' s involvement in the labours of the intergovernmental conference .
bearing in mind the terrible conflicts that have plagued our continent over the past few years , largely in the south-east , it is also essential for the countries of europe to unite over the issue of a common defence .
before the european council takes place in nice , we must create the conditions that will enable the union to realise its ambitious goal of creating a european capacity for crisis management .
we know that the security of a union is indivisible and we know that the key to the future security of our own country is to work with each other and for each other .
that is what makes this process so unique , but also so vulnerable .
we must make quite clear to those who are already taking the idea of a united europe for granted , that it is of fundamental importance to the peace and stability of the whole of europe to press on with the european integration process .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the situation austria currently finds itself in is an unpleasant and grave one for my country and , above all , for its people .
however , it is also unpleasant and grave for the other 14 member states of the european union .
on a final note , allow me to thank you once again for inviting me to speak here in the european parliament .
the memory is of a time in history that tore europe apart because peoples , and above all their leaders , did not have the strength to react while there was still time . ( applause ) it is because of that duty to remember that we cannot accept the way that the extreme right is gaining ground . ( applause ) nothing would be more dangerous to a human society than for its collective conscience to weaken , for it to become accustomed to the unacceptable and for it to relativise the intolerable . ( applause ) thank you , mr president , for your replies a short while ago to our questions , which give us hope that austria can once again become a full partner in our union , which it has never ceased to be in legal terms ... ( uproar on the far right ) ...
but what we hope , mr president , is that it will also become so in our minds and , to tell the truth , in our hearts . ( loud applause .
the debate which we held recently on the bodies for collective investment in transferable securities and the reactions to the report on pension funds , which we will hear shortly , demonstrate the complexity and importance of these issues .
these two issues , the liberalisation of the financial services market and taxation , are dealt with in the action plan which is the subject of my report .
it is therefore appropriate to thank all the groups for their cooperation and confirm once again to the commission that it can rely on the active cooperation of the european parliament in the implementation of this plan , and we will not disregard our duties , but exercise them responsibly .
in my judgement , to sum up , it is the following : the liberalisation of the financial sectors and the updating of the regulations on supervision and control in order to achieve a european financial market which is at least as competitive as the united states financial market .
in order to achieve these two objectives , the commission proposes a truly arguable and risky formula : the speeding up of the legal process , which , in turn , would involve three actions .
firstly , a reduction in the standards which need to be included in a regulation or directive , that is to say , which require the participation of this parliament .
again we agree , but we know that there are difficulties in this approach resulting from the need to reconcile the objective of liberalisation with the objective of protecting investors .
personally , i would have liked to have seen a list of those national measures which , in accordance with the directive on financial services , are hindering the operation of the market in each country .
liberalisation must therefore be implemented in parallel with the increase in measures relating to control and taxation .
finally , mr president , my personal conviction is that , if we do not want liberalisation to give rise to distortions in competition and the flight of capital to more beneficial climates inside and outside the union , the correct operation of the market in financial services will not be possible without a certain degree of approximation of the laws which regulate savings .
in calling for different legal bases to be established for products and product providers that are defined in different ways , the main aim is to achieve legal certainty in europe and to afford better opportunities for future integration into the internal market .
using both of these , we can attempt to achieve full european integration .
let us , as participants in codecision on future directives , use tomorrow ' s vote to send the right signal to the commission , with a view to bringing stability to old-age provisions in europe and providing future supplementary pensions in the internal market that are in every sense worthy of the name .
mr president , i am referring , as you have said , on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , to the commission communication on the action plan for the implementation of the framework for the financial markets .
the more liberalised an economy is , the more necessary it becomes to rigidly regulate the financial markets .
the commission , in its proposal , on page 18 of the spanish version , after recognising the competence of parliament by means of codecision , in accordance with article 251 of the treaty , tells us that we should move towards very flexible procedures by means of comitology .
i believe that we need some very specific legislation and i am sure that the commission can count on the support of parliament in the drawing up of this legislation .
as the rapporteur said a moment ago , we cannot expect confidence on the part of investors , consumers and , ultimately , the financial markets , if they do not have a specific legal framework in which to operate .
for example , they would like to use funds in their euro account in country a to settle an account in debit in country b .
existing legislation , however , prohibits or hinders this type of cash management technique .
the commission appears to be somewhat apathetic in this regard , and seems to be concentrating rather on producing a directive on prudential rules for pension funds , which is easier to achieve but less effective in terms of decision-making in relation to the elimination of barriers to labour mobility and the coordination of taxation systems .
the legal bases are very important , and , clearly , different : in view of the various judgements delivered by the court of justice , pension funds could be governed by article 47 and article 55 , the removal of barriers to labour mobility could be governed by article 42 and the coordination of national tax systems by article 94 .
however , i would stress the need and the desirability to develop a single package , because this is the only way to achieve an overall framework which tones down the extreme positions contained in certain proposals for amendments .
i refer , in particular , to biometric risks , which are a very important factor but which should be dealt with on the basis of paragraphs 7 and 8 of the opinion drawn up by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
indeed , making cover for biometric risks obligatory would be likely to make the system very inflexible .
if 23 % of europe ' s population is over 65 years old today , this figure will have reached 40 % by 2025 , and the proportion of four working people to every retired person will have become two working people to every retired person by 2020 .
this demonstrates the pressing need to allow the development of supplementary self-funded high return pension schemes in the european union to usefully supplement state contributory pension schemes .
as we all know , our member states are working towards ambitious structural reforms , but it is also up to the european union to intervene in the area of pensions , particularly supplementary pensions , in order to facilitate the free movement of workers in the context of the single market , to establish a genuine single capital market and also to ensure that equality between men and women is respected .
with this in mind , the committee on employment and social affairs has been concerned to reconcile the security and efficiency of supplementary pensions for future pensioners as it is true that the guarantee of a high level of security for beneficiaries encourages healthy and desirable competition between european pension funds .
this is why our committee feels that the proposal for a directive on community prudential regulations applying to pension funds must be tabled and adopted as quickly as possible , bearing in mind our discussion today , with proper guarantees for the external and internal supervision of the funds concerned and for the calculation of their prudential commitment .
furthermore , in order to encourage the free movement of workers , we felt it essential to quickly improve the transferability and the acquisition of pension rights from supplementary schemes from different european countries .
this directive must in particular establish a framework to remove obstacles to the free choice of a pension fund , to the free movement of people , to the free provision of services and to charging double taxes .
we recommend a solution based on the principle that contributions should be tax-deductible , and that supplementary invested income should be taxed in accordance with the income tax law in force in the country of residence .
on the controversial issue of whether supplementary pension schemes should cover biometric risks , i wish to state that from the point of view of taxation , pension funds that do not cover these risks will not be discriminated against in relation to those that do .
that covers the general framework .
i am grateful to the committee on economic and monetary affairs for having included all the relevant conclusions of the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities in the motion for a resolution .
with regard to the action plan which seeks to deepen the internal financial services market , i would like to issue a warning about certain strategists who are attempting to hold the liberalisation of the financial services sector hostage , because the work that has been undertaken on the taxation of savings has not made the progress they would have wanted .
as matters currently stand , we should remember that a single market for capital and financial services can function perfectly well without tax harmonisation .
faced with proposals that confuse ambition and reality , i wish to emphasise that establishing a european committee for stock exchange operations is certainly not the number one priority and , as i have no speaking time left , mr president , i will give an explanation of vote tomorrow to say the rest of what i still wanted to say , because as draftsperson of the committee ' s opinion and as a speaker on the second report , it is really impossible to say everything in two minutes .
mr president , representatives of the commission and the council , mr kuckelkorn , ladies and gentlemen , firstly i would like to thank the commission for the sterling work they have done .
it is essential that we do not define the nature and scope of the risk coverage in a restrictive way .
instead , we should be open-minded and look at the issue from a wider perspective and encourage a framework which is based on liberal markets and vigorous competition between different types of pension schemes .
my firm opinion is that all the different pension schemes should be covered by the same directive in order not to protect certain types of schemes from competition .
consumers and employers must have the right to choose the most suitable form of pension scheme and , therefore , schemes covering biometric risks should be treated under the same directive as schemes not covering these risks .
mr kuckelkorn , no-one in this parliament is of the opinion that supplementary pensions should not cover the longevity risk , through the purchase of an annuity or by some other tool .
it is not the task of the european union to define the nature and scope of the risk coverage concerning other biometric risks .
increased freedom promotes the functioning of the capital market and has a significant impact on the growth of venture capital in europe .
i am committed to the idea that we , as the european parliament , should encourage healthy competition and the freedom of choice of the individual .
this must not only mean a single market for supplementary pensions , but the whole package of legislation concerning the financial services .
mr president , the socialists support the commission ' s efforts to establish a transparent and fluid internal financial services market .
the action plan aims to make the european market equal to the american market .
it is paradoxical in this context to note that some of the most ardent supporters of financial liberalisation at the same time oppose the euro .
the real introduction of the euro in 2002 , however , will result in transparency and competition , which will force the national markets to adapt more quickly than they had anticipated .
the problem is that the legislative bodies , both national and european , are taking a long time to adapt the law to reality .
the commission could make a useful contribution in the form of proposals simplifying and codifying the 11 or so directives that govern the banking sector , the 8 directives on investment funds , and the 21 directives dealing with the insurance sector .
there is not only a problem of coherence in the various legislations on the different sectors of the financial world , but in particular there is the problem of supervising and protecting the public interest .
john kenneth galbraith condemned the mistaken idea that there is any link between money and intelligence .
the lure of profit is such that the financial world tends to create a form of collective euphoria , which often leads to financial crisis .
i must congratulate the rapporteur , mr kuckelkorn , for the tenacity with which he argues in favour of supplementary pensions and for these to become in effect a second pillar of insurance for old age .
we liberals do not regard tax harmonisation as a prerequisite for bringing the single market for financial services to fruition , even if a degree of harmonisation may prove to be necessary to avoid harmful competition over taxes .
the euro has stabilised economic development and provided better opportunities to reduce the costs of acquiring capital , something which benefits both companies and private households .
mr romano prodi ' s statement today in a swedish newspaper to the effect that sweden could stay outside emu is therefore both surprising from an economic point of view and doubtful in terms of the treaties .
it is nonetheless important to emphasise that pension cover in europe is characterised by national diversity and that there is no need to harmonise the various systems in order to create a single market .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , since the single european act was ratified , the financial products market has been developing , despite the warnings of the greens , without regard to the minimum harmonisation of taxation on income from savings .
let me formally notify our british colleagues that this attitude is irritating the rest of europe .
unfortunately , this point has been changed out of all recognition by the amendments of the right within the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
the commission ' s proposal and both the reports we are debating today give priority to the needs of the capital market .
the principal aim is for workers , when they move to another member state , to be able to transfer their supplementary pension schemes and continue to pay into them without forfeiting their pension rights and with a guarantee that their accumulated pension rights will retain their value .
a full-value pension scheme covers biometric risks .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , safeguarding pensions is an extremely important task facing our age .
but we are quite deliberately proposing an open style of wording , as chosen by mr ferri for the committee on legal affairs and the internal market in points 7 and 8 .
that is why today ' s debate has in fact enabled us to embark on the further deepening of the single market , for in the single market and the euro we have , for the first time , the environment we need to get the financial service providers in the eu to operate in a truly efficient manner , and to enable us to take account of the idea of financial legislation and financial supervision .
at the end of the day , when financial conglomerates that are too big to fail come into being , not only does this increase the moral hazard of the institutes concerned , but the economic and financial policies of the states concerned are also faced with new risks .
it is regrettable that there is no direct consideration of consumer protection in the lisbon conclusions .
on the other hand , we are also in agreement with the participation of workers and the urgent harmonisation of the tax provisions .
nevertheless , we have to clarify the basic concept of pensions in a way which includes the supplementary pension schemes which cover biometric risks .
it is necessary to clarify , on the other hand , that the single system applies to every type of worker in the european union ; there are not only workers who work for themselves in the european union but also many cooperative workers , fortunately .
we therefore understand and support the regulatory and supervisory systems for the protection of the rights of participants , but we must put the emphasis on the areas where systems are still underdeveloped , in aspects such as providing information or implementing new plans .
finally , i would like to underline our support for the creation of a european pension fund with the participation of the different economic sectors and the pension providers .
mr president , the ageing of the population and the reduction in the numbers of people of working age , while real enough , have been put forward by the commission and other members as a reason to open up the way for pension funds for supplementary pension schemes .
the dynamic of growth and job creation has run its course .
the capitalisation mechanisms mean adapting retirement pensions to the single market and the introduction of the euro .
moving in this direction entails the risk of a system based on private insurance , which would gradually replace social security .
i cannot , therefore , approve this report which makes the commission ' s approach even worse .
the contributory system guarantees the rights of the employed and provides them with a pension , in the framework of national solidarity between the working population and the retired population , between generations , between men and women , between the public and the private sectors .
the objective should be to obtain new resources and to upgrading the purchasing power of retirement pensions from contributions which could be raised from taxes on financial products at the same level as those which apply to wages .
in the uk , as in the us , chile and singapore and , to a lesser extent , the netherlands , the burden on the state and succeeding generations has been significantly eased through the successful provision of supplementary second and third pillar private and occupational pension schemes , involving funds which grow to provide pension benefits following the retirement of the individuals .
i welcome the fact that there is widespread recognition in this house to extend these supplementary schemes throughout europe , even if there are disagreements over their precise nature and the way that the funds are to be invested .
it is even predicted that if the current trend continues some countries will be facing costs of up to 20 % of their gdp in the next ten years for their pension liabilities .
there are , of course , many risks with equity investments , but there are even greater risks to europe with stagnant economies .
growing pension funds will dynamise our economies by providing large additional capital funds for investment not only in the eu , but also in developing markets , with greater prospects for future growth and returns on investment for our pensioners .
in the case of defined contribution schemes , which give the investor a direct stake in the overall health of the national economy , there will also be a sense of participation in the country of that individual .
we need a light-touch regulatory framework , with bilateral tax agreements , which will ensure the portability for those eu nationals wishing to work abroad throughout the union , achieve a genuine single market in financial services and provide maximum choice to the european investor .
these finance ministers may then have to pay yet again because they will have to resign their posts , as punishment for their foolish actions .
that is why the debate as presented to us in amendment no 30 , on the freedom of choice of the insured , is a pseudo discussion .
mr president , this report seeks to harmonise supplementary pensions in europe .
indeed , it recommends the development of a truly single pension fund market by referring to the inevitability of resorting to capitalisation .
this report puts forward cynical arguments and seeks to give credence to the idea that only capitalisation would ensure better protection of low incomes .
this is in perfect harmony with past , present and future struggles , and it is in support of them that we shall be voting against a report that reduces this parliament to the level of a lobby for high finance .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are all in favour of securing future financing for pensions , having an equitable and stable inter-generation compact , and creating a workable , clearly defined three-pillar model that increases the individual ' s range of options and supports the mobility of employees .
we are not in agreement on whether supplementary company pensions supplement the first or the third pillar .
almost 90 % of the professional population in the private sector are in pension schemes which guarantee a wage-related pension .
this also includes small and medium-sized businesses .
it has been shown that it is precisely the compulsory nature of participation in collective pension funds which encourages these excellent results .
as for biometric risks , other speakers have already talked enough about this .
mr president , we are voting against this report advocating self-funded pension schemes .
this system restricts employees who want to guarantee a retirement pension for themselves that will give them enough to live on , to make their money available to investment funds , trusts , insurance companies or other private financial groups .
if we are to strengthen the second pillar then it must be made equivalent to the first and built up accordingly , that is , it must take account of the biometric risks .
but we should not establish a system today .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , supplementary pensions and complementary pensions schemes are of course gaining constantly in importance and in market value on account of democratic development .
only good quality products will be able , in the context of the second and third pillars , to fulfil a social function for the european social model .
unfortunately , we are forced to note that this is the case for the majority of member states .
needless to say , the objective of making employees more mobile and flexible within a large single european market and the euro zone will inevitably lead to interest in supplementary pension schemes .
this , unfortunately , is at the expense of member states which already have their house in order .
the supplementary pension scheme is based on collective feeling and solidarity .
the second point is that it is important that we provide decent pensions to enable citizens to move around europe .
the biometric risks problem means many different things to different people .
in almost all member states the pension systems comprise three elements : statutory pension schemes , company pension schemes and supplementary private pension schemes .
discussion is currently ongoing in all member states as to how we can reform the pensions system .
as has already been said repeatedly , the kuckelkorn report concerns itself with pensions in the second pillar , i.e .
what this actually means , for example , is that an employee who has a car accident at the age of 35 and becomes an invalid , receives not only the capital he has paid in up to that point but also a proper company pension , because he is the same position as if he had worked until he was 60 years old .
we must ensure that the concept of a pension is not just understood to mean a form of savings scheme , for a capital investment ... ( the president cut the speaker off . ) mr president , we are facing a difficult issue , as evidenced by the large number of speakers .
i believe that the systems we should pursue in europe should be based on two principles .
firstly , risks tied in with the second and third pillars should be sufficiently covered , because far too little has been said about this .
mr president , the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs makes it clear that the pay-as-you-go based , statutory pensions schemes in the member states need to be supplemented by capital-backed company or other supplementary pensions schemes .
i am in favour of compromising with " cooperation " rather than introducing the frequently obstructive concept of " codetermination " .
the commission welcomes the attention which the report pays to the need for capital markets to function to optimum effect .
we also have a few specific proposals in this respect .
firstly , we would propose the provision of better information on financial products for citizens .
thirdly , we would propose better harmonisation for the present national consumer protection rules .
the report will be made available shortly .
mr president , most speakers have expressed their thoughts on the issue of pensions and i would like to say the following on this matter .
in its communication on pensions , the commission has included proposals on three fronts .
however , this does not detract from the fact that investment and management rules can also serve the interests of people other than pension scheme members .
this coordination is a precondition for cross-border labour mobility .
more than anything , and this is also underlined in the draft report - rightly so - we should facilitate the transferability of rights from one member state to another , and this is also very much in the interests of employee mobility , of course .
this is also echoed in the motion for a resolution .
agreement on this approach would solve the problems of either double taxation or no taxation , which is what citizens and member states are struggling with at the moment .
however , i would like to point out that this issue , as is known , only and exclusively concerns the competences of the member states and , as such , falls outside the scope of the european commission .
these standards will differ in certain aspects according to the risks actually covered by the institutions .
i think that the european union would not do itself any favours if the subject of the directive were to be limited to biometric risks and i can honestly see no reason why other forms of pension schemes could not be included in the same directive , as i pointed out a moment ago .
in other words , there is still a large degree of freedom for the member states to arrange the pension systems within their own country as they see fit .
this freedom remains .
accordingly , we need to set up this legal framework within the european union which enables businesses and future pensioners to choose the products on offer within a transparent market by institutions which are adequately supervised .
in the final analysis , many remarks made in this meeting will also be of interest to mrs plooij-van gorsel , but since she has reminded me of this question , which , as i have already said , i would have addressed at a later stage , let me just say that this is of course an issue pertaining to the internal market .
the new strategy for the internal market comprises one hundred or so measures , many of which will be beneficial to small and medium-sized businesses .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
allow me to make two observations : the committee on legal affairs has not accepted all the suggestions of the committee asked for an opinion .
we were in complete agreement with most of them and they seemed to us to be very interesting , but we consider that this resolution was not the right place for them and that , by incorporating them , its message would be less clearly expressed .
that has been my criterion for recommending a vote in favour of the amendments presented in this house .
what was that message ?
the internal market appears to have become very small in this new globalised economy .
this document on the strategy for the internal market expresses this very clearly .
we need to put the emphasis on the principles of the internal market : the principle of proportionality , the principle of mutual recognition , the principle of control of origin .
we need to strengthen our infringement procedure , we need to consolidate it , make it more transparent and more accessible .
the second message of this resolution is that we need to make the present , rather disorganised laws , which the citizens see as a burden , into a genuine legislation , a coherent and clear framework of rules and regulations , without any overlapping or contradictions .
these contradictions are seen by the citizen and by industry as burdens , as a lack of clarity in the message regarding the direction we are taking .
lastly , the third message is a change in the business culture in europe .
to this end we will have to change certain laws , such as for example the european laws on insolvency in general , on the suspension of payments and bankruptcy .
mr president , once again the european parliament must express its opinion on the commission communication on the construction of the internal market , in this case , a new version of it .
a proportion of its content affects the competences of the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
this new version does contain specific measures and proposals .
let us then analyse the content of these proposals , albeit in general terms .
we notice a lack of such political courage in this document since the chapter on tax simply reproduces previous commission commitments , and even leaves aside some of the european parliament ' s proposals .
secondly , in relation to the rules on competition , the communication opts for deepening the process of reform underway , and this deserves our support .
mr president , as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs , it is natural that i should speak about the problems which the strategy for developing the internal market may pose from a social point of view .
we are starting with a european social model - which is a national model - and we are transforming the economic structure of that society .
we have had examples such as the case of venezuela where a strictly private system of public transport led to a profound social and political crisis in that country .
liberalisation presents other difficulties .
for example , when public services and public companies are privatised and those public companies come to be controlled by a private sector which in reality replaces the state monopoly with a private monopoly , liberalisation may not come about effectively at all .
liberalisation by means of privatising public companies may end up consolidating dominant positions and private monopolies which in my opinion may offer fewer benefits than a monopoly conceived in the public interest .
another aspect - which we referred to in the recent debate on the kuckelkorn report - is the need to coordinate social protection .
social protection in a single internal market cannot simply be left to subsidiarity .
the lack of action is related to the original conception of this policy .
the current council regulation no 3760 / 92 establishing a community system for fisheries and aquaculture , provides for derogations in respect of the internal market , notably in articles 6 and 7 , which allow derogations from the principle of freedom of access to fishing grounds , so that member states have the right of exclusive exploitation of their fisheries resources within a 12-mile coastal band , as well as a series of preferential fishing rights , through application of the ' relative stability ' principle , which distributes national fishing quotas .
these restrictions on the principle of freedom of action , which were originally intended to be temporary restrictions , have been extended and will be in force until 1 january 2003 as a mechanism to allow certain member states ' fishing industries to adapt to the rules of free competition in an increasingly open and globalised market .
therefore , the principles and fundamental freedoms enshrined in the treaties should also be applied to fisheries , in other words , the framework of the common fisheries policy should be brought into line with the general legal framework of community legislation .
our committee and , indeed , our group has been emphasising , since this new parliament started last year , the need to encourage the development of small- and medium-sized enterprises across the european union .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it has to be said that the european commission ' s current strategy for bringing about the actual realisation and improvement of the internal market has already been the subject of debate in this house on quite a number of occasions .
the introduction of the euro has already brought all the shortcomings of the internal market into sharper relief and it will accentuate them even more clearly in the future .
it is important to get the proposed measures underway quickly .
the promised dialogue between the commission on the one hand and business and citizens on the other is to be welcomed because the relationship between the commission , the european parliament and society should , after all , be interactive .
the e-europe initiative praises the use and expertise of internet and multimedia .
in order to build a genuine internal market , we should , more than anything , concentrate on promoting the interests of small and medium-sized businesses .
legislation must become simpler and must be written in a clear language .
mr president , i would like to speak on a point of order .
in the spanish version which i have there is no problem .
the spanish text simply says " remove the barriers imposed on entrepreneurs capitalising on company value through the issue of share options on the stock exchange " .
mr president , many thanks for giving me the floor regarding an issue which is very dear to the commission as a whole and myself , in particular , namely the new strategy for the internal market .
it would be an example of cutting off your nose to spite your face , if parliament or the commission were to say that they refuse to make further attempts to integrate the financial services if no progress were made in terms of the taxation package .
the commission is trying to flesh this out and this also means that those state monopolies need to allow for more competition in the fields i mentioned a moment ago .
in europe it takes far longer , even as long as five months , a ratio of 1 in 30 .
could i once again express my appreciation to the members of parliament and the rapporteur , in particular , for the important vote of confidence which we received from parliament regarding the new strategy for the internal market ?
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
it was not only these concerns that were highlighted by the various amendments to the original text proposed by honourable members of this house , but also those regarding a real policy in this area which , without infringing the subsidiarity principle , would ensure the quality and the effectiveness of the campaign to encourage language learning , as well as the diversity of target-groups , paying particular attention to the less favoured sectors of society .
for these reasons , and with my thanks for all the cooperation given to me by fellow members , by the portuguese presidency and by the commission , i am honoured to propose that we vote in favour of the joint proposal for a decision on the european year of languages , in the version contained in the compromise text , the main features of which i have just outlined .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , rarely has there been so much insight and common sense in evidence on all sides of this house , as is proving to be the case during this debate today .
as the socrates rapporteur , i am very much in favour of placing special emphasis on the importance of learning the language spoken by one ' s european neighbours , and of launching pilot projects on this very issue , in the course of the year of languages .
mr president , commissioner , the european year of languages 2000 is intended to achieve several goals , one being to promote awareness of the fact that linguistic diversity within the european union is part of our cultural heritage .
the exchange of information , the collation and processing of experiences , as well as the development of new , modern methods of improving access to languages and making it more efficient , is also one of this project ' s key areas of concern .
the main aim of this year of languages is , as has already been said , to urge the people of europe to learn several languages , both for their own benefit as the basis for improved understanding and integration within the european union .
the report has been prepared and agreement reached on more than 100 proposed amendments within a very short space of time .
two weeks ago , we reached agreement with the representatives of the council , the commission and parliament , but i am sorry to say that this was called into question on monday of this week .
we cannot accept this kind of behaviour , and we expect the council to give its representatives a mandate for negotiations , or to confirm to us that further talks will be necessary .
the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party is very happy to support initiatives which may create greater awareness of the value of linguistic diversity in the european union .
it is important that the eu ' s citizens should be encouraged to learn foreign languages early on in school and also throughout their lives .
finally , in the programme for the european year of languages , consideration is also given to the forthcoming enlargement of the union , something which we in the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party consider to be crucial to all eu programmes .
i come from a bilingual country myself and i have met some people in that country who never learn the other language , despite the fact that they attend language classes , sometimes for twelve years , and are still unable to speak another language .
i therefore hope that in the course of this year of european languages , research will be carried out into the best language teaching methods and , more than anything , how europeans can be encouraged to learn the language of the other europeans using a modern and appealing method .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the diversity of languages is a source of cultural wealth .
that is why we must convince parents , teachers and politicians that language learning must begin at primary school level , or even at pre-school level .
we must do more than simply argue in favour of the diversity of languages and call for differences to be respected .
this leads on to the debate on the official languages of the community and the recognised languages , be they national or regional , of all of today ' s countries and those of tomorrow , particularly in the context of enlargement , which , as we all know , is a cause for concern for us in terms of languages .
europeans must not neglect any language , nor must they forget the languages of the immigrants present in considerable numbers in our countries , or sign language which is the minority language par excellence .
i feel that a successful awareness campaign must , of course , present languages as subjects to be studied and as a mechanism for exchang but it must also remind people that languages are also a source of fun and a pleasure .
i would also add our own mother tongue to the equation .
the english sage , francis bacon , said that knowledge is power , so knowledge of the basic languages from which our modern european languages derive improves our general knowledge and reinforces european civilisation , which , besides its humanitarian value , is also a weapon for our survival and prosperity as europeans in a globalised economy .
it is the most important bond for a nation .
at the same time it is also the right of each citizen in each member state .
mr president , in addition to congratulating the rapporteur , i would like to highlight in this debate that the idea for this celebration originates from the council of europe , an institution with a particular sensitivity towards the cultural and social aspects of the old continent , which , with its initiative of increasing the knowledge and use of more languages by europeans , hopes to promote understanding and tolerance and bring citizens closer together .
in europe , many other languages are spoken , some of them thousands of years old such as euskera in the basque country or gaelic , whose origins have been lost in the mists of time , and others such as catalan , galician and alsatian , which is spoken right here in strasbourg .
furthermore , the learning of languages leads to an awareness of our cultural diversity and contributes to the eradication of xenophobia , racism and intolerance , which forms part of our community objectives .
i would also ask , in this era when emotions often take precedence over good sense , that we do not support projects which are aimed at exclusion and the use of language to support positions which often seek to cause divisions between people , when the objective of this programme is to unite people .
i am referring , for example , to ladino and yiddish .
of the 150 languages which are spoken in europe , we should make a list of those which are only transmitted from mothers to their children , which are only spoken in a domestic setting and which , currently , with the invasion of the media and with the official use of languages in schools , will have very few years to live .
mr president , i should like to address my remarks on languages to my fellow members , of course , but also to our interpreters , who enable this parliament to function , to the rapporteur , of course , not for his work as rapporteur but because he is also a poet in this parliament and , moreover , as i have discovered , one who speaks my mother tongue perfectly .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it is a sound report , that much i can say .
languages reflect the diversity of the european union .
in some parts of our region , for example , children learn the languages of our neighbours as early as the kindergarten stage through play .
it is to some extent a laboratory which could serve as a basis for others who would like to do what we all wish to do during this european year of languages , which is to promote the study of one ' s mother tongue and of two additional languages .
on the other hand , we are at a crucial stage , as there is the prospect of achieving agreement at first reading between the parliament and the council .
this leads me to the second great aim of the european year of languages : we must encourage the public to learn languages and to do so throughout their lives , starting at a very early age , in nursery school .
the european year of languages is also a framework , which will enable information to be disseminated on how to learn languages .
methods have moved on from the traditional ones and much work has been done in this area .
the year will be organised in close cooperation with the council of europe , which is extremely significant .
many fruitful meetings have already taken place and the ongoing exchange of information between our respective departments is vital to the implementation of this year of languages .
it is important to emphasise the fact that the amendments voted for by the european parliament must be acceptable to the council if agreement is to be reached at first reading .
you also know , however , how sensitive this issue is for certain member states .
i think that the definition of target languages as stated in article 1 , amendment no 15 , provides sufficient scope , whilst enabling everyone to agree on it .
and i am relying a great deal , believe me , on the debates that will take place during 2001 , the european year of languages , because these debates will enable us to overcome the problems and fears which still exist with regard to minority languages .
i also hope that at the end of this year of languages , their will be no more resistance to languages , because , as has been very clearly stated , there are no small languages , there are only mother tongues , which are all great languages .
i am therefore relying on the debates to help me prepare future activities in this area , and i would also draw your attention to the additional recitals which address this concern : amendments nos 2 , 3 and 4 .
the recitals also enable us to take account of other specific concerns , as many of you have pointed out , such as classical languages and cultures , which will not be forgotten during the european year of languages .
the commission ' s draft text proposed a limited number of studies with a direct bearing on the organisation of the european year of languages .
the members of the european parliament have proposed a great many additional studies .
it goes without saying that the field of language learning is in constant development , which is why these studies are necessary .
on the other hand , the council is not prepared to accept a long list of studies which could not all be carried out under the european year of languages .
my feeling is that we all agree that this point should not become a reason for agreement not to be reached at first reading .
given its awareness of the importance of languages in the process of european integration , the commission has committed itself to developing these issues when implementing its programme of studies , which will be carried out in the framework of , and in accordance with the procedures of , the various programmes and activities which can be enlisted for this purpose in the spirit of article 8 of the proposed decision .
the promotion of bilingual publishing , mentioned in amendment no 41 , is covered by the culture 2000 programme , and i shall see to it that projects undertaken in this area are given the priority that they deserve .
finally , it is true that enlargement of the european union and the growth in the number of official languages will have certain implications , as amendment no 36 suggests .
nevertheless , this issue is beyond the remit of the european year of languages and , furthermore , is a matter for all three political institutions .
i am therefore committing myself to doing everything in my power to encourage discussion on this point in the appropriate setting , whist hoping that i can count on the necessary support of the european parliament .
lastly , i would like to say a few words about the amendments presented in plenary .
amendments nos 43 and 12 have the same content , but the wording of amendment no 43 is better .
nevertheless , we know that the council will not accept amendments nos 47 , 48 , 49 , 50 and 51 , which relate in particular to regional and minority languages , since we have already discussed this in the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport .
as these amendments would jeopardise the chances of agreement being reached at first reading , i cannot accept them .
to sum up , mr president , it is important that we quickly reach agreement so that we can launch the european year of languages .
i am sure that they will be incorporated into the text , as far as possible , and i shall also take them into consideration in other programmes and activities where we have the opportunity to encourage the promotion and learning of languages , not only in 2001 , but well beyond that , because the year 2001 will be only the starting point in the campaign we are fighting for all mother tongues to be recognised at european level .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
although some prayers remained unanswered , the parliamentary delegation could be satisfied with eur 520 million for the seven year term , with a review clause on the accession of the candidate countries in central and eastern europe .
the negotiations for the youth programme have dragged on for around one and three quarter years .
we have drastically amended the original proposal by the commission , which envisaged combining the existing programmes " youth for europe " and the european voluntary service in one five year programme .
we wanted to simplify administrative structures and do more to develop disadvantaged young people .
the commission adopted a raft of amendments put forward by parliament , however the council was unable to reach agreement on a common position concerning eur 350 million for a five-year programme .
at second reading , the european parliament concentrated on 13 amendments , focusing largely on the budget , on a seven-year term following the example of socrates and leonardo , and on a flexible age limit and social protection in matters of comitology .
at the second meeting of the conciliation committee we were able , following difficult negotiations , to reach agreement on all issues .
but , as rapporteur , i welcome the fact that the youth programme is enabling us to send out a signal that the programme really is open to all young people .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in one month ' s time , on the 9 may 2000 , parliament will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of robert schumann ' s declaration .
the new programme closes the gap , as it were , between the youth and educational programmes that are already running .
parliament , as well as the commission and the council , saw that there was a need for this programme , even if , as the rapporteur has just said , considerable hurdles had to be overcome in relation to the financial framework .
the new programme is more comprehensible and more citizen-friendly .
but the fact that we are still here so early in the morning is a tribute to the rapporteur ' s work on this programme and , indeed , that of the commissioner and the portuguese presidency - which has shown itself to be committed to youth , to the voluntary service and to education in its broadest sense .
we are delighted that some candidate countries of central and eastern europe will benefit as well .
we can be pleased with our efforts and pleased with this report .
through increased communication between young people in europe , the programme will indirectly help combat xenophobia and increase respect for human rights .
finally , the community ' s action programme for youth also gives consideration to the forthcoming enlargement of the union , something which we in the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party believe to be of crucial importance to all eu programmes .
it is a very good report .
youth is the sector in our community that is so often ignored .
the new youth programme emphasises the developing links with the youth of entrant countries .
the bridges built between youth will be the bridges that eventually unite europe .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i bid you good morning !
voluntary activities in the environmental and cultural spheres help people to learn what europe is really all about and also to learn other languages .
this new programme has enabled us to consolidate and improve on previous youth activities .
we welcome the exchange programme because it reinforces mutual trust between the young people of different countries and encourages mutual tolerance , and a willingness to cooperate and show solidarity .
what goes on in the heads of young people of today has a special resonance for the future development and functioning of the european union and european consciousness .
i am emphasising these two aspects because , as mrs pack has already said , the sanctions against austria are having most impact on cultural organisations , and the educational and scientific spheres , as well as on scientific cooperation .
the youth programme is crucial to the european union , as you have all already said , because it is a unique programme , in which all young people , without distinction , can participate .
in the youth programme and in the way it is implemented , there will be no sanctions against anyone , and that includes young austrians , who will not be discriminated against .
this programme will encourage and consolidate the continuation and development of innovative actions at community level and will help to improve the quality of the action undertaken on behalf of young people .
it therefore represents a useful instrument in assisting a policy of cooperation and will contribute to the process of european integration .
in addition to ensuring that the programme is effectively implemented , i wish to make a commitment before this house that i will encourage a process of structured and regular cooperation with member states , in order to work towards drawing up action plans that are up to the task of the challenges , and without which the programme would be less effective .
i would now like to clarify the role of this white paper and the role of political catalyst that youth policy must play in the future .
i hope to prepare the white paper on the basis of broad consultation with the different parties concerned and when i say the parties involved i mean above all young people .
that is why , at the youth council on 23 november last year , i proposed to the member states ' ministers for youth that they hold national meetings of young people during the first half of 2000 .
this proposal was very warmly received by all the member states and these meetings are being organised at the moment .
most member states have already set dates for them and most of them have also assured me that these meetings will be open , with the participation of all possible parties including , of course , members of the european parliament .
these meetings must allow young people to play an active role and to assert their aspirations , their expectations and their opinions , but also their recommendations for political action in the areas that affect them .
the various national meetings will culminate in a huge european meeting which will be held at the beginning of october , under the french presidency .
we will also rely on the various studies on young people , which will be financed under the youth programme , and the study , already underway , on the status of young people and the situation of youth policy in europe .
lastly , i would like to include the european parliament in this exercise .
to conclude , i would like to emphasise the fact that the consultation process , particularly with regard to young people , will not be a one-off exercise , because the publication of the white paper will constitute the second stage of this dialogue with the parties involved , and this is a dialogue that i would like to see established on a more permanent basis .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
this is particularly true with regard to the shaping of the european single market , a context in which we require statistical data which is comparable and equivalent between the different member states .
i would even go so far as to say that this is even truer , if that is possible , in view of the enlargement of the european union , a process in which the availability and comparability of information , particularly statistical and economic information , must be treated as absolutely crucial .
i do not intend to dwell on the qualities of esa 95 - the european system of integrated economic accounts - nor on the progress which it represented in relation to the previous 1979 system , an issue which i spoke about in the house at the time of my report on the proposed council regulation amending the regulation on the application of the protocol on the excessive deficit procedure .
what should really be underlined is that , in my view , we must firmly support a commission proposal which , essentially with regard to an issue as serious as the budgets of the member states , is inclined to give priority to the revenue actually collected rather than criteria such as the amounts due in the field of taxes and social contributions .
this course of action by the commission , which some people attack because in short they believe it does not once and for all end the practices of concealing deficit , in no way intends to distort the assessment of the amounts in the national accounts but , on the contrary , to arrive at the same figure in two different ways .
one , in my view the more correct way , or at least the more academic way , is the criterion of income , with the corresponding provision concerning collectability , set out in paragraph ( a ) of article 3 proposed by the commission , and the other , set out in paragraph ( b ) of article 3 , is the criterion of cash receipts adjusted to take account of the time difference between the activity and the cash tax receipt at the end of the financial year .
nevertheless , we believe that , in order to encourage member states to gather statistical data , even aggregated data , concerning taxes on products , article 3 of the commission proposal should deal with this issue by establishing a similar mechanism for recording and adjusting such taxation .
i would like to repeat that the proposal rightly stresses that we should give priority to the revenue actually collected rather than the taxes and social contributions due in the member states , and allows these two methods of calculation , which make it possible for the systems used by the member states to be adapted .
finally , i would also like to stress that , consistent with our opinion that the commission proposal is more an amendment than a clarification and that , moreover , it affects basic concepts , instead of using the procedures under article 2 ( 2 ) of council regulation 2236 / 96 of 25 june 1996 , for the adoption of changes to the methodology intended to clarify and improve the content of esa 95 , use should instead be made of the introduction procedure set out in annex a of that regulation .
on closer examination , it now appears that the information recorded on taxes and social contributions is not as precise as was hoped because it does not always correspond to the amounts actually collected or collectable for a particular assessment year .
the ppe-de group agrees with the commission proposal in this regard .
the member states also need time to adjust to new rules .
we have therefore tabled an amendment on behalf of the ppe-de group and would ask our colleagues in the house and the commission as well to support this amendment .
i should have liked to hear the commissioner confirm whether the commission is indeed drawing up a proposal to amend article 8 of the esa 95 regulation to the effect that all the member states will , in the future , have an adequate legal basis to use esa 95 for the calculation of the third source of own resources , that is to say , vat .
mr president , the commission ' s initiative on presenting this regulation intended to unify the principles for recording taxes and social contributions is very appropriate .
it is true that , in accounting terms , both the cash receipt criterion and the income criterion can be allowed , but it is also true that the former allows for less juggling of the figures intended to distort the true accounts situation of a country .
it is true that the use of those systems has allowed , for example , certain countries to fulfil the maastricht criteria , but it is also true that their abuse can distort the picture of a country ' s true accounts .
the rapporteur mentioned a debate which occurred in spain which , in short , resulted from the government claiming esp 750 000 million in 1997 as social security income , which was theoretically owed but which was clearly never going to be collected .
it is perhaps for this reason that the spanish members from the ppe group have presented certain amendments and have tried to delay the approval of this report .
we therefore approve of the commission ' s proposal but we do not approve the ppe ' s proposal , which is intended to delay the entry into force of this regulation , or the amendments of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , which , since it considers that the regulation amounts to an amendment rather than a mere clarification , in reality delays its entry into force .
as any expert knows , the estimations in accordance with esa 95 require breakdowns which affect no less than 60 accounting categories .
secondly , this profound and complex change must be done in a gradual way .
at the end of the day this would lead to a fair change because a sudden change would prejudice those states which have adopted the criterion of income , in other words , those which have , to a greater extent , complied with the regulation which entered into force in 1999 .
we are being asked to change a regulation which entered into force a few months ago .
the ppe-de ' s amendment asks for the change to be introduced gradually .
mr president , i think we would all agree that , if we are to run the community properly , we need a high-quality statistical base within the community and the applicant countries .
so far as the transition period is concerned , many of us will have sympathy with the need for some form of transition because , clearly , if you amend the regulations in such a way that you move from a system which is being used over a long period of time to a completely new system some time will be required .
however , i hope that the countries of the union will not use this as an excuse , if it is passed , but seek to implement the new system as rapidly as they can - in other words , two years should be regarded as an exception and as a maximum rather than as the normal ration for the job .
the commission is very happy that our proposal has received broad support and is happy with the report adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs , which i will comment on shortly .
the rapporteur stresses in his report that the objective of the proposal is to arrive at the same figure , regardless of the statistical sources used , and in reality this is our objective .
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has approved eight amendments and the commission can accept amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 7 and 8 without any difficulty .
the commission would prefer not to maintain amendments nos 4 , 5 and 6 .
with regard to amendment no 9 , the issue has been studied by the directorate-general of ecofin and by eurostat and , having analysed the problem in detail , i can tell you , mr garcia-margallo , that , in principle , exceptions , in statistical terms , must only be allowed where a member state is not technically capable of providing data .
this has been the case , for example , with the exceptions allowed for certain member states within the esa 95 regulations .
in the case in question , there are no technical difficulties to justify that exception , and the regulation has been substantially amended throughout its negotiation to give it more flexibility , in such a way that , in our opinion , all the difficulties raised by the different member states can be resolved within the margins of flexibility which the regulation allows .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m .
under constant attack since its adoption , this regulation eventually led to several wto rulings against us , the latest in april 1999 .
as we know , this system has already been attacked by the majority of operators and producers from all geographic areas .
the same applies to many acp countries , traditional suppliers .
it is impossible for these producers to maintain fair competition with the great producers and operators in the international network .
the margin of manoeuvre is technically narrow , but the choice of a reform model is political .
as there are no objective reasons for choosing ' tariff only ' , i propose to retain the first option in the commission ' s proposal , the ' transitional ' option , and implement it without moving on to ' tariff only ' , but with a review of the operation of this reformed com at the end of a ten year period .
in any case , accompanying measures are essential to ensure the permanence and viability of community and acp production .
i hope parliament will follow the line proposed by the committee on agriculture , but we also need the understanding of the council and the commission .
ladies and gentlemen , as we now have a new report before us and a new team here in the chamber , i must repeat what i said at the beginning .
firstly , with regard to the international obligations of the european union , not only towards the acp countries , but also within the world trade organisation .
in fact , in the commission ' s current negotiations , it appears that the main suppliers would prefer this system .
on the other hand , this is the system which best defends the principle of multifunctionality of agriculture , protects the european union producers , also protects the developing countries , with whom we have a very special relationship , is sensitive to the protection of fundamental social regulations and the protection of the environment and , lastly , it is the system which best obeys the principle of consumer protection .
for all these reasons , my committee voted in favour of mr dary ' s draft report .
but while i share the desire to put an end to a trade war which is poisoning transatlantic relations , this cannot be done at any price , abandoning without compensation the principles of justice and solidarity which guide the action of the european union .
i am sorry , too , that we have not fought for the retention of a specific quota for the acp countries which alone guaranteed them access to the market .
but let us give them time .
let us encourage organic farming and , in ten years , believe me , the price of african bananas will have fallen to the level of dollar bananas .
in this proposal , the commission not only renounces the defence of community interests and the interests of the acp countries but has also , in my opinion , abandoned the minimum degree of neutrality required .
the world trade organisation condemned the system of licences in force , which must undoubtedly be modified .
it is in defence of our obligations and commitments to the acp countries that the amendments have been presented on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation .
the banana controversy is a good example of how hard it is to reconcile the interests of the fifteen member states , the union , the acp banana producing countries , european consumers and our trading partners .
i congratulate the commission for striving to reach a compromise that has regard to the various interest groups .
mr president , the wto has challenged our community regulation on bananas several times and each time we have had to redefine the content of this com and suffer the burden of the fines imposed on us as reparations for damage caused .
however , in the light of these four concerns , mr dary ' s proposal is entirely apt , at least that was the feeling of parliament ' s committee on agriculture and rural development in unanimously supporting it , a quite exceptional occurrence for such a sensitive subject .
for my part i am convinced that the approaching start of the next wto cycle should mean we can handle this issue positively in a more global context and for that i am counting on the commission ' s determination .
as we all know , there are many competing claims - the claims of acp banana producers , community banana producers , eu businesses which have been hit hard by us sanctions , the eu 's role and standing in the wto and , of course , the rights and interests of european banana consumers .
the commission 's proposal is a compromise between those who demand an immediate move to a tariff only system and those who wish to ignore the wto rulings and stick with the flawed regime as it is .
that is why the majority of the eldr group supports the commission 's proposal to continue a tariff-rate quota system for a transitional period before moving to a definitive tariff only system .
that can be done by rejecting this report and supporting the commission 's compromise proposal .
mr president , the common organisation of markets in the banana sector has allowed this sector , which is fundamental to the sometimes fragile economies of the acp countries and the outermost regions of the european union , to function .
less than seven years have passed since the entry into force of the com on bananas , and the commission is now proposing a profound modification of its operation .
the commission proposes a quota of 353 000 tonnes and a possible increase in the event of a rise in demand .
lastly , special attention should be given to the development of the situation of the community and acp producers , who are already in a vulnerable position and will be even more so in a context of intense and open competition .
the commission must carry out a report in advance assessing the consequences of the application of any modification of the system in order to provide the due compensation for its negative effects on prices and incomes as a result of the increase in the global income in question .
but , in fact , almost 60 % of the 4 million tonnes of bananas consumed annually in the european union are supplied not by community or acp producers , but by latin american third countries where the american companies run vast plantations under production conditions characterised by scant regard for social and environmental concerns .
in traditional acp countries and union countries , which already have only a minority share of the european market , bananas are grown in small production units , usually family concerns , and in areas where there is no real possibility of alternative occupation .
so they represent an essential element in the balance of the economic and social fabric of these fragile territories .
unfortunately , that certainly seems to be the route the commission has chosen , with a short and dangerous transitional system and an exclusively tariff - and uncertain - formula as from 2006 , which would imperil both acp and european production and put the community banana market under the control of a few large operators , able to set the profit margins through the commercialisation of dollar bananas .
so the commission ' s proposal is in line with neither the interests of community and acp producers , nor the long-term interests of european consumers , because it actually encourages the emergence of a far from competitive market situation .
that is why it has been unanimously rejected not only by our committee on agriculture and rural development , but also by the acp-eu joint assembly and the french parliament .
so i hope our parliament will follow the committee on agriculture , and the european commission will feel obliged to make new proposals to us , more in accordance with european interests and our cooperation with the acp countries .
the united states wants more .
but we are also getting bogged down in technical proposals .
thus the commission proposes , before surrendering totally to the united states , a six-year transition period when , in essence , there would be three quotas , including the acp quota and the dollar quota .
we have to choose : either the canaries , madeira and the antilles - or chiquita .
we have to choose : either africa and the lome convention , or the wto .
we have to choose : either europe ' s social policy and human rights , or the multinational slave-drivers who produce with social costs totalling 8 % instead of the 42 % social costs in the canaries , madeira or the antilles .
this is about protection of financial interests , because when olaf disputes a few centimes of members ' taxi expenses yet is not interested in the annual present of two billion dollars from chiquita , there is a problem .
when the united states alters its policy , we will discuss the mere 191 million for bananas .
when the united states stops cheating for the benefit of boeing , kodak , cargil and ford , we will discuss bananas .
we must talk about iraq , echelon , serbia ; put everything on the table .
the lack of competitiveness of eu banana production cannot be allowed to justify a refusal to accept uniform and non-discriminatory access to the european market .
mr president , commissioner , it falls to me to summarise the problems of the com in bananas in just a few minutes .
this is a tropical fruit marketed in the northern hemisphere and its distribution is also a fundamental part of north-south cooperation .
the real question we face is whether or not the european union can succeed in organising , within its own market , a juxtaposition of flows from the producer regions of europe , the acp countries and latin america .
such a development would be contrary to the actual purpose of regional policy and the common agricultural policy - the two pillars of the european union - and we do not want that under any circumstances .
mr president , the defenders of the interests of the multinationals in this parliament have not studied the subject of bananas properly .
in fact , so far the world trade organisation has only declared two extremes incompatible with international commercial law .
the second refers to the incompatibility of the exemption in favour of acp countries within the community system .
in other respects , the community system is wholly in accordance with community rules , international law and the rules of the world trade organisation .
mr president , commissioner , the european commission ' s proposal on the reform of the banana sector is negative , unacceptable and disastrous for the agricultural sector in the outermost regions and the acp countries affected by it , which , of course , supply 40 % of the community market .
the flat-rate system that the commission intends to introduce would cause producers in the outermost regions of the european union , such as madeira and the acp countries , to go bankrupt .
if our policies are to be consistent with our declarations of support for the acp countries and for the development of the outermost regions of the european union , we cannot allow agriculture in those regions and its future development - in which the production and export of bananas play a major part - to be squeezed by waves of dollar bananas from the large plantations that banana multinationals own in latin america .
that is why we - and i am now speaking on behalf of a significant minority in the ppe group , which could be a majority the next time - support the commission ' s position .
following a transitional period , a tariff of eur 275 per tonne is to be introduced for bananas from third countries , from which bananas from acp countries would be exempt .
however , the achilles ' heel of the commission ' s proposals is the lack of sufficient protection for the interests of banana producers within the european union , essentially in the peripheral regions and the overseas departments .
there is still a need for a political compromise here .
the structural measures envisaged in title iii of the regulation on the common organisation of the market in bananas need to be considerably strengthened .
because , ladies and gentlemen , adopting a ' tariff only ' system after a transitional period of six years , as the commission proposes , would truly condemn our producers to failure and despair .
ladies and gentlemen , let us make no mistake , if europe surrenders on the banana issue today , it will surrender on sugar or rum tomorrow , and the next day it will have to abandon its social model and its development policy .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the banana regime of the european union has already been condemned four times by the world trade organisation .
after the united states , ecuador has also now obtained permission to take retaliatory action for an amount of usd 200 million .
commissioner , i too remember the european union introducing a regulation in 1993 on the organisation of the market in bananas , so as to ensure protection of outlets and income for community producers and to guarantee the exports of the acp countries to the community market .
in 1999 , the wto panel , orchestrated by the united states , condemned the community ' s import licences system .
the commission has submitted to that verdict by amending the market conditions to end up with a ' tariff only ' system in 2006 .
the implementation of this new regulation , which actually goes beyond the wto ruling , would call into question the distribution of community and acp products and would aggravate an already fragile social situation , especially in the french overseas territories where the selling price of bananas had already fallen below 3 francs in 1998 and was less than 2 francs in 1999 .
i am glad the committee on agriculture has rejected not only the amendments championed by the intermediaries of the american multinationals , but also the commission ' s proposals .
i entirely approve of the dary report which opposes the automatic move to a ' tariff only ' system and which defends the principles which presided over the establishment of the common organisation of markets , especially community preference .
by adopting the dary report , we will be sending the council and the commission the clear signal that our parliament is determined to defend the interests of community and acp producers , to make the wto recognise that the preferential agreements constitute development aid instruments .
furthermore , as we saw in seattle , the new round of wto negotiations should be a genuine development round .
mr president , commissioner fischler , banana production has a special significance in certain less developed countries , signatories to the acp agreements , island regions such as crete , and , in particular , outermost regions such as madeira , the canary islands , martinique and guadeloupe .
we are not talking about fully developed regions in the centre of europe which have countless alternatives when faced with changes in market conditions , and where the common agricultural policy invests most of its resources .
for this reason it is not possible for us to accept radical changes in the community ' s trade policy in this field unless we take full account of its regional impact and unless we take the necessary measures in this field in terms of economic and social cohesion .
the lisbon european council instructed the commission to present as quickly as possible practical measures aimed at implementing the commission ' s report on the application of article 299 ( 2 ) in relation to the outermost regions .
chiquita , dole and del monte , who produce in latin american countries , have not seen their production levels go down since 1993 .
having said that , it is not that i do not think it is possible , as put forward in the commission proposal , to adopt , as of 2006 , a system which does not impose quota restrictions or tariffs on acp countries or any other countries .
postponing this until 2010 would not make much difference , although that would undoubtedly give us more time to find less damaging solutions .
i regret various aspects of this dary report .
i have to say that this timescale of ten years is wholly unrealistic and unreasonable .
in ecuador , 60 % of banana producers are small producers with less than 20 hectares , and they are suffering from unjustifiable discrimination .
that is why contradictions exist within the dary report , which , on the one hand , advocates a global approach and support for fair trade bananas throughout the world , but , at the same time , continues to create difficulties of this kind for small producers in latin america .
mr president , commissioner , at this point in the debate i am not going to enter into a discussion of the dary report , nor discuss its fundamental points , but i do wish to say that the official position of the ppe group is in support of the entire dary report .
commissioner , your proposal does not accord with the objectives nor resolve the problems being suffered by the banana industry and politically it is not worthy of our producers .
nor does the commission ' s proposal comply with our international commitments .
however , the most serious problem is that , immersed in difficult negotiations with the world trade organisation , we are showing publicly , in black and white , where our weak points lie .
furthermore , i am sure that you will find a viable route in the direction indicated .
therefore , commissioner , act politically , find a solution and listen to this parliament .
the first area is the deletion of references to a tariff only system and an automatic move to such a system after a certain transitional period .
the second important area is the issue of managing tariff quotas .
our discussions have also covered other alternatives for managing quota c .
the third area , which relates to quotas , is the extension of the period for maintaining the quota system to at least 10 years .
the commission has proposed the transitional period because it gives time for producers within the community and in the acp countries to prepare for the new system .
with regard to the tariff preference for acp countries , the commission believes that eur 275 per tonne is sufficient to secure access to the community market for these countries .
a higher preference would also lead to renewed attacks in the wto .
if the higher preference limited latin american countries ' access under quota c , this could be interpreted as if we wanted in practice to introduce a special acp quota .
i shall now turn to the special support measures for our own producers in the european union .
there are already horizontal measures in place guaranteeing equal access for organic bananas from third countries and organic bananas from the community .
in addition , the european union can grant subsidies for the production of organic bananas under the agri-environmental measures envisaged in the development plan for rural areas .
in addition to the possibilities i have just mentioned , it is also possible to provide support for developing production of organic bananas and also of fair trade bananas in the acp countries under the regulation establishing a special framework of assistance for traditional acp suppliers of bananas .
however , assuming that the compromise - and i would once again like to express my sincere thanks to all those involved in achieving it - remains unchanged in other respects , i would ask you to vote for amendment no 1 tabled by the group of the party of european socialists , because it includes a sensible addition .
however , i must reject amendments nos 2 and 3 , because in terms of content they would have too great an impact on the overall compromise .
the amendment is essentially about a vote on the explanatory statement in my report .
last monday we did indeed have a wide-ranging discussion in the committee on budgetary control on the admissibility of this question , and on whether , as chair of the committee , i should make use of rule 161 .
madam president , i tabled this amendment , along with 37 colleagues from the european people ' s party , because i was appalled at the way the media had exploited the explanatory statement which , as everyone should know but obviously does not , is the responsibility of the rapporteur and in no way commits the house .
having said that , i think you are right , madam president , to declare it admissible because the vote this amendment involves is not a vote for or against the explanatory statement , but is simply intended to highlight the distance between that explanatory statement and the resolution .
therefore , bearing in mind that the rapporteur has not spoken on this fundamental issue , i understand that the amendment still makes sense and the group of the party of european socialists accepts it .
after the vote on amendment no 5 madam president , although some people are pleased at the decision that has been taken , this creates a very dangerous precedent .
whenever , in future , there is an explanatory statement which some in the house do not like we have established that every time we will be able to vote against if we wish to do so .
if either of these amendments is adopted , will you , as president of parliament , assume full political responsibility for their content and take the consequences if the demands set out in them are not met by the deadlines .
mr van hulten , as president , i take responsibility for declaring these amendments admissible .
the problem facing me is whether they are admissible or not .
on amendment no 4 madam president , we have an amendment before us which allegedly sums up the substance of two observations by the court of auditors very concisely .
on amendment no 1 from the greens / ale group madam president , point 6 , on which we have to vote in this amendment , stipulates a deadline of 15 may .
we have already agreed on this , and this was also unanimously agreed in committee , because we accepted that this was only possible if we took account of the situation on negotiations .
this is about calling on the administration to present an action plan by 15 may describing exactly how improvements can be made .
our group supports this compromise amendment with , however , the exception of one word : " plus " - " plus proportionnelle . "
presumably the english version is " more proportional . "
we cannot accept that word .
however , under the rules , it is not possible to ask for a split vote on a compromise amendment .
i note that if amendments nos 100 and 101 were both to be adopted , it would come to exactly the same text as this compromise amendment , except for the problematic word " more . "
as i know that colleagues in other groups had exactly the same problem with this word , i would suggest to friends and colleagues that it might be appropriate not to accept the compromise amendment but to vote instead in favour of both amendments nos 100 and 101 , which are compatible , and that would achieve precisely the result desired by many people .
thank you , mr corbett .
excuse me , mr brok , rule 130 of the rules of procedure is very clear .
i am only following the rules , just as i should . ( parliament decided not to put the compromise amendment to the vote ) on amendment no 118 from the greens / ale group madam president , there seems to be a lack of correspondence between the different linguistic versions of amendment no 118 .
the french version simply refers to " les autorites competentes , " whereas the english version refers to " the competent devolved authorities " which , in english , has a more significant meaning .
we established our voting lists in favour of this amendment on the basis of the french version .
madam president , the french text takes precedence .
on amendment no 174 from the ppe group madam president , we wish to request a split vote , first on the term " four-fifths " and then on the rest .
now , on the original text of paragraph 29 , i believe i had a request for an oral amendment from one of our rapporteurs .
so i will give him the floor to present his oral amendment and then we will have a split vote and roll-call vote on paragraph 29 .
mr dimitrakopoulos , if you would like to present your oral amendment , parliament will decide .
madam president , the oral amendment consists of adding the word ' continuing ' to the second part .
in this case , we informed your services yesterday that we would not be signing that compromise amendment .
thus , it should never have been tabled in our name .
before the final vote madam president , i would like to make a political declaration on behalf of my group in relation to an issue which i believe has left a nasty taste in the mouths of all the groups in this house : the vote on paragraph 3 , on the composition and distribution of seats in the european parliament .
my group will vote in favour of the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report , but i propose that the committee on constitutional affairs , in its wisdom , be charged with the task of finding a solution to this issue , because it is enormously sensitive throughout this house . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) president .
on the final vote on the resolution we were faced with three choices today : to vote in favour , to vote against or to abstain .
to vote in favour of the stauner report is to vote for postponement of granting discharge which , all things considered , we believe should be granted now .
as we explained in the budgetary control committee , our preference was to vote " yes " to reform but " no " to visiting on this commission the sins of its predecessors .
in the liberal group we have been consistently in favour of many of the elements in the stauner report such as access to documents - it is a duty of the current commission to provide access to documents .
if we do not vote in favour of the report it is because we want to indicate a preference to do business on reform now rather than later because we believe , on the evidence to date , that this commission is a reformist commission .
voting against the report would merely have the effect of sending the report back to the budgetary control committee without a clear expression of what happens next and by what means .
the french socialist delegation is glad a majority was achieved to pass amendment no 5 highlighting the slippage between the resolution put to the vote and the explanatory statement .
by that vote , members have reaffirmed that only the rapporteur is responsible for the explanatory statement .
the proposed report mrs stauner submitted to the committee on budgetary control caused consternation far beyond the members of the committee itself .
the resolution put to the vote in parliament today presents a catalogue of reasonable demands and recommendations to the commission .
they leave the committee on budgetary control sufficient time to prepare a report which will rule effectively on the implementation of the 1998 budget by the commission . - ( it ) the delegation of the democratic left to the european parliament , of which i am chair , voted against the stauner report on the 1998 discharge because it does not agree with the basic line taken .
the report does not focus on the commission ' s actions during 1998 , to which the discharge relates , pursuant to article 205a and article 206 of the treaty and article 89 ( 5 ) of the financial regulation , but is lingering over alleged cases of fraud , most of which occurred in the early nineties during the terms of previous commissions .
the prodi commission has undertaken a vast reform , which is necessary in order to modernise the european civil service and to reorganise its structures in preparation for the many challenges which it will have to face over the next few years .
indeed , it is necessary to ensure not only that past cases of fraud cannot be repeated , but also , and above all , that the level of management errors identified by the court of auditors in its annual report is greatly reduced .
kuhne report ( a5-0097 / 2000 ) - ( nl ) in view of the inadequate management with regard to the buildings and personnel policy contracted out , as mentioned in the kuhne report and in the report by the financial controller , we are of the opinion that discharge to the european parliament in respect of the implementation of the 1998 budget must be postponed .
the european parliament must operate the same high standards with regard to its own management as are required of the commission .
we are convinced that discharge can only be granted to the european parliament in respect of the implementation of the 1998 budget , provided that specific measures are taken to buck this deplorable trend once and for all .
dimitrakopoulos / leinen report ( a5-0086 / 2000 ) mr president , i would like to underline that no one in parliament will agree with every single item and every single paragraph of this important report .
but we know that .
mr president , i have voted against this report .
mr president , we are opposed to the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report because it proposes an integrated , centralised , rigid model of europe , which is the opposite of our europe and which can only block enlargement .
we find three points in this report particularly harmful .
thirdly , the totalitarian drift of so-called european democracy , with the introduction of mechanisms , in particular making the application of article 7 of the eu treaty more flexible so that a member state can be suspended , mechanisms , then , which will give a handful of leaders authority to operate a thought police across the continent , even against peoples expressing themselves democratically , as in austria .
one of the most controversial points that arose during the debate was the contradiction between the anticipated proliferation of members of the european parliament because of enlargement , and the ceiling of 700 members the treaty of amsterdam has imposed on our parliament .
that limit was chosen to make the european parliament resemble a national one , but all it does today is set the countries against each other , as none of them will accept a reduction in its quota of members , and that is understandable .
the europe of nations group proposes putting an end to these conflicts by breaking through the ceiling of 700 members .
it could work in variable geometry formations and its originality would have a powerful impact on the imagination .
mr president , like many others in the group of the greens / european free alliance , i have voted against this report for many reasons , but above all for three reasons .
if a union of 28 member states is to be successful , it must obviously have a flexible structure .
mr president , i express my disappointment at my green colleagues and my own group , because i was left with no opportunity to vote on two key amendments on the common , foreign and security policy .
it was very important for us to have an opportunity to say whether nuclear weapons play a role of any kind in the future of the common , foreign and security policy .
i voted against the report itself , because i feel that more centralisation means less safety for smaller member states , less democracy , less involvement of people at a local and national level .
a new constitution for europe that overrides national constitutions , a legal personality for the european union and , of course , more militarisation : this is not the kind of europe i want .
mr president , i voted for amendment no 100 to the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report on the european parliament ' s proposals for the intergovernmental conference , which , i regret , was not adopted by the house .
mr president , i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution although i did not agree with the individual points .
i regret that , at the end of the day , only 238 members voted for the text , and i would like to ask those responsible for the running of this house to check whether the procedure followed really made sense .
i would also ask you , mr president , to raise this vote in the bureau , and to consider whether we cannot arrange matters differently , so that we avoid a mammoth voting session like this , which has lasted two and a half hours .
mr president , although i am broadly in favour of the dimitrakopoulos report on the intergovernmental conference , i abstained on the final vote .
the rejection of amendment no 57 , which would have removed this ambiguity , therefore leads me to abstain on the text although , i repeat , i support its main thrust as regards the igc .
and i am quite sure the igc will not retain the current wording of paragraph 32 .
i believe that we should go much further , and move more determinedly , towards federalisation and away from nation states , towards the regions and the peoples of europe .
it was difficult for me to support the resolution because it mixes the worst in with the best .
on the other hand , i did not want to vote against a resolution which probably represents the best the european parliament can do at the moment .
the obvious conclusion seems to me that parliament itself still has a long way to go to meet the profound aspirations of the majority of european union citizens .
to take just one example , parliament was only able to maintain a compromise on the composition of the commission with difficulty , but truth obliges me to state that the compromise incorporates two contradictory ideas .
ainardi , bakopoulos , eriksson , figueiredo , frahm , koulourianos , meijer , herman schmid , seppanen and sjostedt ( gue / ngl ) , in writing .
we oppose the development of the european union towards a state with superior powers to those of the member states in all aspects of policy , as the report in practice advocates .
we demand that the stability pact be reconsidered and article 56 of the treaty be rewritten in order to bring the ecb under democratic control .
we consider that in insisting on a broad agenda , the european parliament is not facilitating what should be the main task of the igc , namely that of resolving the outstanding institutional problems regarding the composition and voting rules of the council , the commission , the european parliament , the court of justice and the other institutions , and so making enlargement possible .
the eu should build on a common political will to achieve the overriding objectives relating to peace , the environment and prosperity in europe , focusing on the interests of its citizens .
the debate in the committee on constitutional affairs , which adopted the draft report with a very small majority , plus the fact that more than 200 amendments have been tabled for consideration in plenary , show that this report cannot contribute to creating a common basis for the igc .
as regards the composition of the european parliament , we have voted for calculation of the number of members from each member state according to a sliding scale so that the european parliament ' s composition reflects the size of the individual states , populations as well as the fact that there are benefits to be had from making the european parliament more representative by enabling the different political viewpoints in the individual countries to be represented there .
this can be achieved by laying down requirements for a certain number of votes in the council which must , at the same time , represent a simple majority of the total population of the union .
all member states must demonstrate the political will to make cooperation work .
in parallel with the igc , the member states are discussing a common european security and defence policy .
the commitment of the portuguese members of the socialist group to the european project is a constant point of reference in its work and in its founding principles .
we find ourselves today at one of those key moments at which the european union needs to rethink and adapt its policies and its institutions so that it can respond better to the challenges of enlargement and of the effective and democratic functioning of its institutions .
advocacy of a progressive political union , pursuing the federalism which was at its origins , strengthening european citizenship and the economic and social cohesion and cultural diversity of its peoples are essential and inseparable aspects of the options before us .
the institutional implications of enlargement cannot be allowed to damage the fundamental balance - which the treaties successfully express - between the twofold legitimacy of the union of peoples and the union of states which underpins the european project and which has made a decisive contribution to shaping its institutions .
the deepening , at global level , of european integration with a view to political union must satisfactorily preserve this fundamental balance which has ensured the success of the european project , bringing together states with such divergent demographic and geographical characteristics .
and it is also out of respect for these principles and convictions that we have felt obliged to vote against the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report , which , in our view , attempts to respond to the challenges of enlargement by means of solutions which would lead to a significant imbalance in the twofold legitimacy of the union of peoples and the unity of states .
we do not believe that the proposal in the report describes with sufficient clarity and openness the adoption of a criterion putting all member states on an equal footing , whether the commission is made up of one commissioner per member state or of a college of 20 commissioners .
the issue of electing 10 % of the members of the european parliament via european lists is also insufficiently clear .
the european list is a good idea , especially if the only people included in it are individuals who represent a genuine point of reference in the spirit of europe .
until now all decisions in the european union relating to appointments have been taken unanimously , and there has never been a lack of appointments or any kind of crisis .
we believe that the unanimity rule has the virtue of ensuring a greater balance and of avoiding possible conflicts between large and small countries within the european union .
it can therefore be said that the igc , which is charged with proceeding with the institutional reforms which will make enlargement possible , holds the future of the european union in its hands , since it has to decide between the minimal reform laid down in the treaty of amsterdam and the broad reform which will allow the union to accept the countries which are preparing for accession and pursue its task in favour of respect for human rights , peace and social justice .
therefore , given that we are at a crucial moment in the process of european integration , it was appropriate for parliament to send a message indicating what it understood to be the key points of the reform .
in the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report which we have just approved and which i have voted in favour of , parliament indicates that we have to make further progress and that , to this end , we have to give the european union the necessary means to complete the shared project of peace and well-being initiated 50 years ago .
furthermore , the issue of the european parliament ' s seat is covered by a court of justice ruling of 1 october 1997 and laid down in the protocol on the seat of the institutions annexed to the treaty of amsterdam .
as a french socialist member , i am therefore very much opposed to any proposal that would call into question the strasbourg seat of the european parliament .
madam president , that is why i have voted against this motion . - ( sv ) enlargement of the european union is one of the most important issues for the future of europe .
the aim of the present intergovernmental conference is to prepare the eu for this enlargement .
the report on the intergovernmental conference is the european parliament ' s contribution to that conference .
we , the swedish members , mr pierre schori , mr jan andersson , mr goran farm and mrs ewa hedkvist petersen , support the main features of the report , but we would highlight the following points on which , to some extent , we have different opinions , which is why we abstained from voting in the final ballot .
the role of the european parliament is to represent the people in the union .
we advocate a ceiling of 700 members of the european parliament .
it is important that the solution should be a permanent one and not need to be changed in connection with any future enlargement .
an alternative would be for the weighting of votes in the council to be calculated on the basis of the root of the population in the individual countries .
closer cooperation between at least a third of the member states cannot apply in the case of defence cooperation .
eu cooperation is , in the first place , a civilian european project and ought to be distinguished from military cooperation .
we now know its general scope , and it is clear that much of the content of this resolution , regardless of its merit or lack of it , has nothing to do with it .
the stability plan for south-east europe is a failure : the declarations of loyalty to nato by the governments of eastern europe do not prevent the european union treating them with contempt and imposing anti-social policies on them .
we must build a europe capable of enlarging towards the east and the south , to all peoples who democratically express the wish to join .
the intergovernmental conference is not intended to increase the powers of the union ; the point of the operation is to improve the functioning of a union enlarged from 15 to 26 or even 30 member states .
through these excesses a majority of this parliament has done europe a disservice . , in writing . ( sv ) the intergovernmental conference is an historic opportunity for member states to transform the eu into a democratic , open and efficient organisation , which is why we regret that the governments of the member states do not have the political will to carry out an in-depth reform of the union .
on this basis , we think it is important for the present intergovernmental conference to establish the size of the commission at one commissioner per member state .
we do not think it is appropriate to see this as a permanent solution to the problem which will arise when the eu is enlarged .
therefore , we must increase the use of qualified majority voting in the council in order to avoid paralysis in decision taking , we must limit the number of commissioners so that the union 's executive remains efficient and we must limit the number of meps to 700 to enable parliament to function effectively .
at the same time , if the european parliament approves a report like this , it will appear to be indifferent to situations which are obviously urgent , such as the need to overcome or at least mitigate serious democratic deficits ; the need to modify the monetarist principles - in particular the stability pact - which are the root cause of today ' s social scourges such as unemployment and unstable employment ; to change the statute of the european central bank so as to ensure greater transparency and appropriate controls and limits on its powers ; and to make the existing principle of economic and social cohesion a reality , which is a vital step in creating a europe of the future based on solidarity .
the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report covers a wide range of issues which could be considered in the framework of the igc which is taking place over the remainder of 2000 .
the debate which has begun between member states is reflected in the points of view expressed within the european parliament , as is the tension over the scope of the igc .
the european parliamentary labour party believes that it is imperative to conclude the igc before the end of 2000 in order to leave the eu fully prepared for enlargement .
in order to achieve this , we believe that the scope of the igc should be restricted to " tidying up " the outstanding points from amsterdam , plus a small range of other issues .
we have concerns over the workings of a european public prosecutor 's office whilst being concerned to protect the union 's interests and resources against fraud throughout community territory .
likewise , the legislative measures in criminal matters in respect of fraud damaging the interests of the union will need to be carefully constructed .
the national parliaments and local authorities should play an important role by ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is respected and by monitoring governments ' action in the council . - ( sv ) when the european parliament today stated its position on the intergovernmental conference , i advocated solutions which also provide for the interests of the small member states .
since i do not consider the report to be in earnest with regard to the demands for decision making in the council , to the way in which judges are to be appointed and to the number of members of parliament , i voted against the report in the final vote ( 238 votes in favour , 147 votes against and 73 abstentions ) .
the sanctions on iraq have become a weapon of mass destruction against the helpless people there .
over 200 children die there every single day .
mary robinson , the high commissioner for human rights , has been speaking out against sanctions for a long time .
she said you cannot expect her to condemn human rights abuses in other parts of the world and let the united nations itself be responsible for what is happening in iraq following the sanctions .
within hours of his resignation , the head of the world food programme in iraq since january 1999 also resigned in protest at the sanctions .
i would like to point out that 70 congressmen sent a letter to bill clinton in the united states asking him to lift the embargo , asking him to de-link economic sanctions from the military sanctions that are currently in place in iraq .
it is a blatant violation of international human rights laws .
the sanctions are targeting the most vulnerable in society and making them suffer yet , at the same time , the elite in that society and the people who are part of the saddam hussein regime do not suffer from the sanctions .
that is absolutely unacceptable .
no member of this house can remain unmoved by the harrowing situation in which so many iraqi people find themselves .
the facts have been presented by respected international bodies such as unicef .
the consistent refusal by the regime to fully implement united nations resolutions has led to a situation where the sanctions remain firmly in place almost ten years after the invasion of kuwait by iraq .
we must make it very clear in this forum that united nations resolutions are legally binding on all members of the united nations .
it is within the power of the regime to have the sanctions imposed by the united nations lifted .
full implementation of resolution 1284 obliges iraq , among other things , to cooperate with the red cross in overseeing the repatriation of detainees .
it is better to tell the truth and admit that the interests of the united states take precedence over those of communities .
today , we are going to vote on a motion , a very important motion for a resolution calling for an end to the sanctions , an end to the embargo .
saddam hussein is certainly responsible and guilty , but we are also incurring a great deal of responsibility and guilt in continuing with a policy which maintains the population of a country in extreme poverty , a population such as the iraqi people , with a rich history and culture , a population made up of people , women , children , who want to live .
i hope that when the embargo imposed on iraq is lifted , this will be the end of all embargoes everywhere throughout the world .
this is important for all of us .
the honour of europe depends on our speaking out for these young arabs , for this great people being consigned to the night .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , parliament will shortly be voting on a joint resolution and that is certainly not just because we are determined to have a clear conscience and actually condemn the perpetuation of sanctions which have never achieved their goals , as everyone agrees .
it is also because we think there is a real possibility of preventing a new risk of military force being unleashed there , given the experience of our colleague , mr buttiglione , who has been to iraq and has alerted us to the fact that there is currently a significant risk of renewed bombing .
but we can feel gratified that we are voting in parliament today on a resolution on the situation in iraq which has , for the first time - and i hope we will take advantage of this to change our style a bit - won the approval of almost all the political groups .
i would mention , too , that only two members of the security council voted for it , against the advice of the three other members who abstained .
it means that , for the first time , the international community is being asked to show consistency with its own principles , because the various un committees agree that these resolutions have been virtually all applied by the iraqi regime , except for some minor points of interpretation or detail .
the fact is the discrepancies between iraq and the international community do not justify maintaining the embargo .
mr president , our resolution is very consistent .
for my part , i would refer to the procedure which seems to me in this case to be important .
this is a debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance , which has been devalued insofar as we are not getting a declaration from the council , as parliament had requested , on including this point as a council declaration .
i would like to say that , without presenting any valid argument , this attitude on the part of the council seems to me to show a lack of respect towards parliament , especially when parliament offers the council the opportunity to make any declaration on any subject , as laid down in rule 37 .
it is truly contradictory that this parliament cannot obtain a council declaration on an issue as sensitive as this .
therefore , mr president , i would like to say that my group intends to ask the committee on external affairs , at its next meeting , to present , pursuant to rule 42 , an oral question to the council so that the council will reply .
if this initiative is not successful , my political group will present , pursuant to the same article , an oral question to the council so that the council really takes seriously the worries and concerns of this parliament and really does what is laid down in the treaties , that is to say , to inform and cooperate with parliament in all those areas which affect and concern the citizens of the european union .
mr president , i am as concerned as anybody in this house about the suffering of the people of iraq as the result of sanctions but also of the actions of their own government .
if we are to support this resolution then iraq must most definitely honour its obligations under all the united nations resolutions .
we , as a parliament , must stand by our resolution of january this year , calling for the release of all kuwaitis and other non-iraqi nationals who are still imprisoned in iraq .
i had the opportunity to visit iraq last month .
it regrets iraq ' s decision not to accept united nations security council resolution 1284 .
and we could have done even more if the iraqi government had not imposed restrictions on the activities of non-governmental organisations , hindering the delivery of humanitarian aid in iraq .
given the situation we cannot pretend that humanitarian aid can do any more than alleviate some of the effects of this awful economic and human situation in the short term .
in this regard , we agree with the draft resolution .
the vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m .
we are categorically opposed to any form of terrorism and we support the fight against terrorism in every country in the world .
however , for several months a war has been raging in chechnya which none of these arguments can justify .
i spent over six years of my life in russia and have very close ties with that country .
it is high time that this war ended and that a political solution to this conflict was found , no matter how difficult and complicated that might be .
we would therefore react vigorously to these atrocities , but we also see it as very important to cooperate with democratic forces in russia and with the new government .
mr president , what has happened in the war in chechnya has shocked us all .
mr president , the president of chechnya has limited control over the troops in his country .
we have also heard that there is the possibility of a joint parliamentary delegation undertaking a fact-finding mission on an ad hoc basis under the best possible conditions with a view to looking around the territory of chechnya wherever it sees fit to do so .
we shall vote against article 1 because once again it involves support for this statement and we could substitute a better statement of our own .
the delegation will have to examine what can be done to preserve the defence of human rights in the region , but also examine what we can do in the future to help chechnya become a democratic constitutional state .
we want to make use of this information at a later stage , that is after the delegation has returned , as the basis for a major debate in this house , involving the council and the commission , and leading to the adoption of a really well founded resolution .
mr president , firstly i would like to say that , through political pragmatism and through loyalty to the work that we do with the other groups in this house , we will support a joint resolution which basically supports the decision of the council of europe and the sending of a joint delegation from the duma and the european parliament .
we must also say that we do not share this kind of silence on the part of the european parliament which is spreading to all these issues like a low mist which obscures everything .
we have even noted that the council of europe itself is showing more courage than this parliament .
either we have human rights or we do not have human rights .
secondly , we want to show our solidarity with our colleagues on the other side of the river ill , with our colleagues in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe , who have taken a courageous step and who we should not lag behind in fighting for human rights .
that is why we must say a resounding ' yes ' to steps against these wrongdoings and why we believe that it is important for representatives of this parliament to visit chechnya as soon as possible , following the example of the council of europe and the un commissioner for human rights , mrs robinson .
we wish to help both peoples and both peoples have the right to advance towards freedom and towards taking their proper place in the international community .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , foreign policy needs to be based not only on fundamental moral values and principles , but also on success in achieving its aims and objectives , and this should not be confused with opportunism .
but we should not fool ourselves into imagining that in this case we simultaneously want to achieve something important for peace in europe and throughout the world as whole , that is to say a dialogue with russia and ultimately a partnership with russia .
it is the job of the council presidency and the commission , whilst at the same time defending moral values and condemning this war , to endeavour to ensure that we support those forces which are all too poorly represented in russia , but who nevertheless wish to pursue a european path , a path towards a european partnership , a partnership with the european union .
during these discussions , we have reiterated our main demands : cease-fire and political dialogue , access for , and presence of , international and humanitarian organisations , and independent inquiries into any human rights violations .
all these demands are also in the european parliament ' s resolution and the recommendation from the council of europe ' s parliamentary assembly .
as the european parliament has emphasised , the russian authorities have failed to respond satisfactorily to these requests .
for our part , we support the united nations human rights commissioner , mary robinson ' s request to russia to set up a broad independent committee of inquiry into any violations of human rights , based on recognised international criteria .
we think russia should pursue implementation of the partnership agreement in terms of its elements - i do mean all its elements - and provide more concrete results than we have at this stage .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m .
jewish prisoners in iran mr president , what is the purpose of this joint resolution ?
and remember , this has been the case for over a year as they were arrested in march 1999 .
our amendment in paragraph 5 is based on this very consideration .
the trial is taking place behind closed doors .
these people have been in prison for months under conditions we know virtually nothing about .
there is no guarantee of the right to a defence .
three have been freed on bail .
it is also clear that the outcome of this trial partly depends on how the iranian political situation evolves .
justice has little place in that kind of battle , and human rights even less .
that is why we must demand the release of the prisoners : the thirteen iranian jews , but also the other eight moslem prisoners and the students we know absolutely nothing about .
finally , we must make it absolutely clear that the development of our relations with iran will be subject to respect for human rights in that country .
the youngest is only sixteen years old .
our feelings are as strong as our concern .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the group of the greens / european free alliance wholeheartedly supports the joint resolution that will be put to the vote today .
today is a special day , 13 april 2000 , the date of the so-called ' trial ' .
in 1979 , 1993 , 1998 and 1999 , resolutions were sent from the european parliament to iran , but what happened to them ?
the israeli minister for foreign affairs , david levy , sent a letter to various ministers , including the belgian minister , to point out that these people are in no way guilty of spying .
that seems to me an unacceptable position for any country that claims to respect human rights .
these 13 who were arrested were arrested in secret ; nobody knew of their whereabouts for two or three months .
therefore , we can only interpret this trial as a deliberate attack on the jewish community in iran .
such a country will never achieve the unity which it desires .
my advice to turkey must be : choose the future and free akin birdal and his colleagues .
the eu is a union founded upon values , respect for human rights , democracy and the principles of the constitutional state .
unfortunately , turkey still has a long way to go .
mr president , during the debate the day before yesterday with the council and the commission , i mentioned the savage reaction of certain turkish leaders to the fear that the european union might try to interfere in internal turkish affairs on the kurdish question , at the very moment when a new path to membership is opening up for turkey .
i can only repeat here as firmly as possible what i said in ankara on my last visit there .
the european parliament has no intention whatsoever of allowing the micro-nationalist miasma which has just drenched the balkans in blood to develop in turkey .
these were his words to us then : " for five months we have had a new turkey .
human rights are unambiguous , human rights are the same everywhere and turkey must also be aware of that , otherwise it will never become a member of the european union .
the european union has accepted turkey ' s candidacy and now the turkish government must respect our agreements and conventions .
tibet mr president , from all accounts , the human rights situation in china has deteriorated considerably .
the european union cannot continue to turn a blind eye .
the united states presented a resolution on the violation of human rights in china at the fifty-sixth session of the un commission on human rights .
we are extremely concerned by the fact that the council of the union has also not yet announced its intention to support this resolution , and this may not be coincidental , since the eu-china dialogue on human rights is at a complete standstill .
tibet ' s culture and identity are being systematically obliterated .
these continual violations of the most fundamental human rights must now become an issue .
commissioner lamy , europe needs to stick its head above the parapet .
point one : tibet must become a peace zone .
point five : genuine negotiations must take place on tibet ' s future autonomous status .
commissioner , all our economic agreements with third countries need to be based on the same premise : respect for human rights .
eight years ago i was rapporteur on tibet .
for this reason we are calling on the chinese government as a matter of the greatest urgency to seek a political solution for tibet through discussions with tibet ' s political and religious leaders , on the basis of the proposal made by his holiness the 14th dalai lama .
in my opinion , the reason for this is that when we talk of human rights , we always focus on individual rights and too often disregard the rights of peoples .
from this point of view , i feel we can congratulate ourselves .
mr president , you could say that there is something of a feeling of helplessness in standing here yet again and talking about the death penalty in the usa , since it is certainly not the first time we have discussed it , not even the first time during my short period in parliament .
you may well feel that it is strange to sit in a near half-empty chamber , apart from the visitors , and discuss such an important subject , but i think it is a subject which we must continue to take up , and i would ask the member states to also respond to it here , to respond swiftly and in no uncertain terms to this so-called friendly state which repeatedly violates the most basic human rights .
for that reason even the inter-american commission on human rights asked for time to re-examine the case and to be able to issue an opinion , and it also asked that no date be set for an execution .
mr president , we should be clear as to why this resolution today is so important .
firstly , we all know that there is a wave of judicial executions across the usa - over 600 since 1977 - but this would be the first federal execution since 1963 .
secondly , it is important because this is the only case since executions resumed in 1977 in which the evidence of unsolved , unadjudicated crime in a foreign country has been used to secure the death sentence .
fourthly , governor ryan of illinois , as we have heard already , has imposed a moratorium on the death sentence in his state because of its appalling record of wrongful convictions .
in this case it is particularly important because it is a federal execution and will be the first since 1963 .
that is why we urge president clinton to grant clemency in this case and a moratorium on federal executions .
mr president , i join with previous speakers in demanding the immediate and unconditional abolition of the death penalty in the united states , and everywhere else in the world .
the death penalty is a political arm used by the american government apparatus to settle accounts with militants like mumia abu jamal .
a government which makes legal assassination one of the pillars of its justice system is infinitely more criminal than those it claims it is protecting society from .
the death penalty expresses all the barbarity of a society organised in a way that also condemns so many children and adolescents , even in the richest country in the world , to die from drug use or insecurity , actually from material and moral poverty , simply because they had the misfortune to be born in a poor area .
on a planetary scale , that barbarity condemns millions of human beings to die of hunger or disease when they could easily be cured - but they are not cured because they do not get the medicine they need .
mr president , my group firmly supports this resolution .
the american election campaign could provide a unique opportunity to send a strong message about this .
zimbabwe mr president , this short debate takes place against a background of increasing tension in zimbabwe .
all of us who speak should remember that every word of our speeches and the resolution will be eagerly read in zimbabwe within the next 48 hours by all sides .
we must , therefore , all encourage zimbabwe to move towards elections in may .
the old parliament was dissolved on 11 april and president mugabe pledged at the eu-africa summit in cairo that the elections would go ahead .
this could take up to three months .
african countries must work together to consolidate their future .
however , the old lome convention made democracy , human rights and the rule of law a requirement for development aid .
it is disappointing that zimbabwe feels the need to be involved in the war in the democratic republic of congo at a time when precious resources could be spent on domestic requirements , such as education and health .
we have fortunately been able to witness a democratic regime that seems to function well coming to power in south africa .
zimbabwe does , of course , still have considerable problems , but the european countries and the union will continue to assume their responsibilities as partners of zimbabwe in jointly tackling the problems of poverty , ill health and under-development .
in my view , zimbabwe deserves our confidence .
the population has chosen the path of development .
i support what other speakers have said about the sadac countries who will no doubt be looking upon this situation with great concern and who are undoubtedly working behind the scenes to maintain a democratic climate .
let us express our complete confidence in the zimbabwean people and wish them successful elections for 1 june .
everything points to the country sitting on a volcano that could erupt at any minute .
in the run up to the elections , mugabe will not hesitate to use violence against his political opponents .
some people even fear that he is inciting the chaos in order to be able to proclaim a state of emergency and postpone the elections .
these are subjects which should be at the forefront of political action by the european union .
we cannot hide the seriousness of what has been going on in zimbabwe for many weeks now .
the concern expressed in parliament ' s motions for resolutions on human rights in iran is entirely shared by the commission .
as you mentioned during the debate , the helsinki european council confirmed turkey ' s status as a candidate country on the basis of the same criteria that apply to the other candidate countries .
so it is important for turkey to engage resolutely in the democratisation process and adopt the necessary reforms in terms of human rights .
in the context of the regular report it has been producing since 1998 for turkey , like the other candidate countries , the commission is following the human rights situation very closely .
this document , which establishes the list of priorities to be met by turkey in preparation for membership , should be adopted by the commission next november .
like you we are worried about the cultural , linguistic and religious identity of the autonomous region of tibet , which the chinese authorities clearly do not respect .
we regard the renewal of this dialogue as the only realistic method of achieving a peaceful and durable solution to the tibetan question .
the situation in tibet was also one of the main items on the agenda at the last summit between the union and china , held in beijing last december .
on the death penalty in the united states , like many of you , the commission is concerned about the growing number of people condemned to death and executed in the united states since the reintroduction of the death penalty in 1976 .
we are engaged in permanent dialogue , not only with the united states government , but also with the other american authorities concerned , in particular the governors of the states where the death penalty has not been abolished .
and we are hoping - we have started - to encourage all the federal states in the united states which apply capital punishment to think about that risk and introduce a moratorium like the one in illinois with a view to achieving abolition of the death penalty throughout the country .
with regard to the particular case of juan miguel garza , the commission is currently working to clarify the facts through our delegation to washington .
as regards the question concerning the possible suspension of our cooperation , although there could be grounds for suspending financial cooperation with zimbabwe under the lome convention , we take the view , for the moment , as indeed does mrs maes , that such a measure would run counter to our goal prior to the elections .
since the government ' s macroeconomic results are mediocre to say the least , the commission , the imf , and the world bank have already frozen their support for structural adjustment , and the backers participating in the agrarian reform have suspended their institutional cooperation plans .
on zimbabwe ' s intervention in the democratic republic of congo , we support the lusaka peace agreement which calls for a status quo of the forces present and a ceasefire in line with the terms of that agreement .
like the european parliament , we utterly deplore them .
thank you very much , commissioner lamy .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
the community is the largest donor to many of these countries .
a prominent african leader made a very pertinent comment .
one of the main problems with providing education in many countries is the catastrophic effect aids is having on the lives not just of children , many of whom are orphans because they have lost one or both parents .
in several of the african countries which i recently visited , i was informed that in order to have one teacher , the colleges must train three , because by the age of 30 so many teachers are already dead from aids .
we are not talking about more money for the development budget but about redistribution within that budget .
finally , we cannot develop others , they must develop themselves , but this is a wonderful opportunity to help them and parliament , together with the commission , will soon be able to translate this resolution very specifically into real action in the 2001 budget .
as the author of the general report on poverty approved in the bahamas by the eu-acp joint assembly a few months ago , i would like to say that the fight against poverty must become one of our objectives and , in many cases , our main objective .
in this context , education , together with health , is the tool with which we can implement an ambitious programme to win the fight against poverty in the world .
it is our duty to take an interest in these children , particularly the girls , because in some countries they are still regarded as domestic slaves .
so in parallel with the implementation of processes to promote literacy and education in general , we must also engage in some collective thinking about the living conditions of children in the various countries , especially in urban areas , and assist in projects to look after street children in third world countries , and also in our own countries , developing pilot schemes inspired , for example , by the family pre-school proposed by atd quart-monde .
it involves reaching out to families and helping children within the family , as well as cooperation and funding to help families in difficulty , especially single-parent families and vulnerable children .
in fact it is our duty to launch an extensive review of the education of children on our planet if we want a better future for all .
in line with these international commitments , community investments in education have primarily targeted basic education and primary education , especially in the context of cooperation with the acp countries .
thus , a majority of the education programmes financed under the 8th edf have been devoted to primary education .
the funds allocated to this heading represent 80 % of the total amount devoted to education .
the commission has incorporated the recommendations of the jomtien conference on basic education into its policy and , in the framework of indicative national programmes , 35 acp countries out of 71 have made education a priority .
we agree that the effectiveness of our approach on education requires very close coordination between the community and the member states as well as with the other backers .
my last point is the question put by mr van den berg on the doubling of the basic education budget in 2001 .
thank you very much , commissioner lamy .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
we know annette lu and the new president of taiwan chen shui-bian .
yes , indeed , after all it is clear that the chinese people are quite capable of building a democratic system with respect for human rights .
beijing ' s behaviour confirms our opinion that the future of taiwan lies in the hands of the taiwanese themselves .
it is extremely important for this parliament to forge closer links with the elected representatives in taiwan .
democratisation in that part of the world is also important for europe .
mr president , commissioner , as european parliament observers , my colleague georg jarzembowski and i were able to follow the presidential elections in taiwan on 18 march on the spot , ' live ' as it were .
after a very long period of supremacy by the party in government up to that point - a period lasting over 50 years - the political scene has been revitalised .
the opposition candidate was elected the new president and , for the first time in taiwan ' s history , a woman was elected vice-president .
the region needs security and stability .
the only way to achieve reconciliation and lasting peace is through positive cooperation and a constructive dialogue between mainland china and taiwan .
our resolution is intended to further democracy in taiwan , but the people ' s republic of china is taking it as an affront .
mr president , commissioner , on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance , i would like to highlight this group ' s contributions to the joint motion for a resolution , both in terms of promoting dialogue with the people ' s republic of china and taiwan , as well as in the firm position which has to be maintained on this issue .
we believe that there is an objective need for taiwan to have a greater presence in the international institutions ; this parliament can promote that .
we therefore support the existence of relations between this parliament and the taiwanese parliament by means of the delegation from our institution and also the need to open a european union information office in taiwan .
having said this , we also want this dialogue to have an objective basis , as have the declarations of the new president , chen shui-bian , to which , however , the people ' s republic of china has replied with a renewed display of nervousness , arrogance and a disrespect for democracy .
we must reject these threats since they are absolutely unacceptable , but also because they are an objective threat to the dialogue which is so necessary to the resolution of this problem .
the newly elected president reflects taiwan ' s democratic maturity .
this makes the behaviour of the people ' s republic of china all the more worrying for us , as before , during and after the democratic elections in taiwan the republic did not cease to make in some cases totally unacceptable threats towards its little brother .
as the union has stated through its presidency , most recently in july last year , in principle we are in favour of one china , but we also want the tension which breaks out from time to time between taiwan and the people ' s republic of china to be resolved peaceably within a constructive dialogue .
we are encouraging intensification of economic relations with taiwan and we think that should happen if , as we expect , taiwan joins the world trade organisation .
we are hoping to do that , but we have not set any timetable because we have other priorities in asia and worldwide , and you know how limited our resources are in this field , so we are forced to make choices .
the debate is closed .
relating to the joint resolution on iraq mr president , there is a drafting error in paragraph 2 of this resolution .
mr markov , you cannot make this request on your own .
if this request is made by 32 members , i can check on the quorum .
let us proceed to the vote .
i therefore request that in accordance with rule 69 ( 2 ) the vote on the legislative resolution should be postponed .
mr president , now the vote is over , i would like to come back to the issue of a quorum .
for example , today there were 226 in the first vote after the issue of the quorum was raised .
mr president , i voted for the definition of the " youth " community action programme , as agreed in the conciliation committee , mainly because it will finance and implement the european voluntary service programme , which has a large number of young people involved in community actions , including the provision of assistance for the elderly .
the importance of the family in promoting or hampering social integration among youth is clearly recognised within society today , as well as through various studies .
the previous youth programmes , youth for europe and the european voluntary service , will be grouped together in a general medium-term programme which will run from 2000 until 2006 , as the european parliament has demanded .
every participant will also have full access to health services and social security , therefore allowing as many of our young people as possible to become involved .
these programmes will certainly benefit our young people and give them invaluable opportunities to learn about themselves , about others and about europe .
not only is this crucial for their personal development , but in a fiercely competitive world it will vastly improve their chances on the job market .
increasing our young people 's skills has always been one of our priorities and we must continue to support this aim .
that is especially true in normandy , the region i represent , where too often youth is associated with deviance and delinquency , forgetting the vast majority of young people who work , dream , love and live , the bearers of all our hopes .
the european ' youth ' initiative is a first step in that direction , and bears witness to a growing awareness of young people in the eu institutions .
but it is essential to maintain this effort over time if it is to bear the desired fruit , in the interests of young people and therefore of europe .
so i am convinced that other initiatives , especially aid to youth associations , should be massively encouraged and financially supported by the european union .
we believe that it is a magnificent initiative on a european level to dedicate a special year to languages in europe , to knowledge of them and to the recognition throughout the whole of the european union of the importance of languages as a reservoir of cultural and historical wealth and an expression of the very identity of the societies which make up the union .
we have supported this report but there are two aspects which we are not happy with .
this amendment has not been taken up , and we regret the line followed by the european commission , with the participation of the member states , because it leaves aside , at risk of marginalising it , a form of participation which is particularly important in this field .
i would like to remind you that this parliament recognised catalan as a european language and gave it a specific personality .
mr president , i voted for the establishment of the european year of languages 2001 .
it is of paramount importance for the european union that the citizens of the 15 states learn to speak the languages of their fellow citizens of the european union .
mr president , i would like to give an explanation of my negative vote on the report on the european year of languages .
secondly , the target year for this decision is 2001 ; european citizens could become proficient in other languages as is shown by the fact that all people who speak minority languages , without exception , have in common an excellent training in this field .
in a european union of fifteen member states , committed to enlargement , with eleven official languages and a multitude of regional languages , it is actually very important to make the citizens of the union aware of the advantages of understanding and speaking other languages and of the many opportunities that exist for learning to do so .
some european countries , especially the scandinavian countries , already have very advanced policies in this field and the resulting advantages are evident .
this practice needs to be disseminated to the other member states .
in the frame of this european year , most of the amendments aim to establish closer cooperation with the member states at all levels of policy , not only at national level but also at regional and even local policy level .
the second aim of my amendments was by means of the activities set up in the context of this european year to pay special attention to socially vulnerable groups , migrants and semi-skilled and unskilled workers .
haute-normandie has one of the youngest populations in france , but also one of the highest levels of youth unemployment .
making 2001 european year of languages will make europeans aware of the linguistic diversity of the european union .
in this respect , ibis ( institut bilingue interuniversitaire de la seine ) , which first saw the light of day in haute-normandie , is most exemplary .
dary report ( a5-0093 / 2000 ) maes ( verts / ale ) . ( nl ) mr president , we not only voted with enthusiasm for this report , but also for the amendments that the committee on agriculture and rural development tabled .
many of these countries are still battling with excessively high costs and i believe that a long transitional period , which i would insist on , is very important for these countries .
the vote on the dary report has demonstrated once again that the european parliament does not respect the internationally agreed trading rules .
it is unacceptable that in the dary report again a transitional period of ten years is proposed , without putting a definitive ruling first .
this war , which is presented as a conflict between producer countries , latin american and dollar area countries against lome convention countries and european overseas dependent territories , is actually a war between capitalist groups .
our position is this : while we do not want to give the mighty dollar banana sharks any awards , neither do we have any intention of providing backing through our votes to the smaller sharks protected by the european union .
if a guarantee fund is created , it must underwrite the wages of these workers and the incomes of small producers , and not allow banana magnates to increase their wealth just to invest it in other , more profitable , sectors . - ( fr ) this report gives us the opportunity to welcome the european parliament ' s becoming aware of the need to defend the banana producers of , on the one hand , the acp countries ( to whom we have made commitments in the course of renewing the lome convention ) and , on the other hand , the outermost countries of the community .
after years of difficulty due to the economic crisis in industrialised countries and the decline in the economies of eastern europe , the commission ' s solution would be likely to cause the untimely disappearance of these producing countries whose economies would not , for want of time , be able to restructure and diversify production .
it is clear today that , without actively seeking confrontation , the eu must champion its own point of view , a position which is all the more tenable as present and future european consumers represent a major proportion of the banana market .
we are therefore satisfied with mr dary ' s report , even if we feel it does not go far enough , particularly in terms of the acp tariff system , the transition period extended beyond ten years , and the definition of a new system for the allocation of import licences , or additional european aid . - ( sv ) the eu ' s system for importing bananas - which the wto panel declared to be discriminatory on 7 april 1999 - must be reformed .
lagendijk report ( a5-0069 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , it was with great pleasure that i voted for this measure on the communication from the commission on the stabilisation and association process for countries of south-eastern europe .
but throughout the century which has just ended , that region of europe has known nothing but suffering because of that claim , whether made by rival european powers or by a western europe which likes to think it is united .
the economic and political rivalries between european powers have led to two world wars : the first started in that region and the second was particularly destructive there .
as the entire current situation illustrates , that war has further aggravated the situation in the region , both in material terms and in terms of relations between communities .
people are always saying that south-eastern europe is the european union ' s crisis-riven back yard .
the political context in this region is extremely sensitive and came to a climax in the kosovo conflict .
that conflict demonstrated the potential political effects of instability on the neighbouring states , threatening to destabilise the former yugoslav republic of macedonia ( fyrom ) , albania and montenegro .
the european union was traumatised by its powerlessness in the face of the process of violent disintegration at work in the balkans .
the outcome of the cologne council was the establishment of the stability pact for south-eastern europe on 10 june 1999 , a pact involving not only the member states of the european union and , of course , the countries of the region , but also the united states and russia .
the pact is part of the global stabilisation approach the european union has been developing since 1996 .
the stabilisation and association agreements to be signed by bosnia-herzegovina , croatia , the federal republic of yugoslavia , the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and albania are the keystone of that approach .
these agreements constitute an entirely new contractual framework for the countries of the region ; they draw great inspiration from the institutional arrangements and conditions attached to the european agreements linking the european union with the ceecs .
these agreements are individually tailored to take account of the specific situation in each country .
above all , they give the countries of this crisis-riven region an important political signal and a definite incentive .
these agreements also encourage stronger regional cooperation , which seems to me indispensable to the creation of an axis of stability in the region .
garcia-margallo y marfil report ( a5-0059 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , i also voted for the measure on the commission communication on implementing the framework for financial markets : action plan , because it is clearly important for the european parliament , the commission , the union and the council to make progress in terms of competition , using networks and electronic money , which are the latest forms of economic activity .
however , i have not been able to vote for it because it still contains inconsistencies after the plenary vote .
in this context , comparison with the commission in place in the united states , the sec , is particularly inappropriate , because the sec is the corollary of a financial system resulting largely from a segmentation of the profession between commercial banks and investment banks , and in europe we have chosen the universal bank model , which has strengthened the role of the banks in the european financial system .
on prudential supervision , i made a direct appeal to the commission and the council yesterday not to cling to the crazy idea of entrusting supervision of all the credit establishments in the fifteen member states to the european central bank .
i have not voted for paragraph 26 which is mostly incomprehensible in french anyway .
kuckelhorn report ( a5-0053 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , considering that we are discussing supplementary pensions , the representative of the pensioners ' party could not let the occasion pass without explaining why he voted for this measure .
the committee expressed an opinion on the outcome of the consultation on the green paper on supplementary pensions in the single market , just as it did on the green paper itself .
the targeted directive we are seeking for the second pillar of supplementary pensions should , in particular , define the context for eliminating obstacles to free choice of pension fund , free movement of persons , free provision of services and double taxation .
as regards the controversial question of whether supplementary pension systems should cover biometric risks , i want to point out that , from the fiscal point of view , pension funds which do not cover these risks cannot be discriminated against as compared with those which do cover them , it being understood that the need to cover these risks depends on the extent of the first pillar in the various countries .
i regret this all the more as almost all the relevant conclusions from the committee on women ' s rights and my recommendations are included in the motion for a resolution , in particular those considering that as regards supplementary pensions too , the preservation of acquired rights is essential when a spouse interrupts or abandons his or her work in order to devote himself or herself to his or her family or look after close relatives who are in need of assistance ; for the purpose of calculating pensions , certain periods devoted to the upbringing of children or care of family members ought to be taken into account ; it is desirable to provide for the possibility of continued voluntary or optional insurance to preserve and improve pension rights and guarantee a right to payment of the capital under certain conditions .
and let us not forget assisting spouses , those millions of invisible workers , the large majority women , on whose behalf this parliament has demanded an upgrading of the half-hearted 1986 directive to give assisting spouses proper status and compulsory membership of social security schemes , especially pension schemes .
on 28 march president prodi and seven of his colleagues met with members of the committee on women ' s rights , the european women ' s lobby and the equal opportunities consultative committee .
the problem for these companies is not , of course , that they are ' hampered in exploiting the opportunities afforded by the internal market ' ; their problem is precisely the measures used to implement the internal market , the principles which constitute the eu 's competition legislation and the reduction in demand in the middle and lower classes as the result of anti-grass roots austerity policies .
and , of course , the solution does not lie in venture capital and the financial markets , which increase the risks for most small businesses , due to their limited resources , but in a different economic development policy which supports productive investment , increases demand and makes it easier for small businesses to trade .
it is not by chance that neither the individual commission proposals nor the european council guidelines make any reference to the need to limit these phenomena , control speculative movements of capital and impose a tax and other measures on capital .
the report calls for greater liberalisation of sectors such as the pharmaceutical market and a reduction in the tax burden on employment , thereby proving that the measures being taken are paving the way for greater liberalisation of and less accountable capital transactions and profits with exceptionally dangerous consequences for the entire social protection system .
this is another illustration of the ' soviet-style ' procedures of the community institutions which are now trying to invent the new consumer and the new businessman , after the new citizen of the ludford report .
com in milk the next item is the report ( a5-0081 / 2000 ) by mr pesala , on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development , on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation ( ec ) no 1255 / 1999 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products ( com ( 1999 ) 631 - c5-0339 / 1999 - 1999 / 0254 ( cns ) ) .
mr president , commissioner , this is indeed a matter of an amendment to a regulation by means of which competence would be transferred from the council to the commission .
it would be logical if this power were extended to cover milk products .
when we consider that funds set aside for aiding exports will dwindle in a couple of years from eur 587 million to eur 415 million , as a result of wto agreements , it would be a good thing if the commission had the power to examine the list of goods .
there has been some discussion that the transfer of power from the council to the commission might not be such a good thing .
planned total expenditure for export refunds for goods not covered by annex i to the treaty have been reduced from eur 610 million in budget year 1999 to eur 551 million in budget year 2000 .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m .
com in milk the next item is the report ( a5-0074 / 2000 ) by mr maat , on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development , on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation ( ec ) no 1255 / 1999 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products ( com ( 1999 ) 608 - c5-0047 / 2000 - 1999 / 0246 ( cns ) ) .
in that regard i must say that i was very fortunate as a new member of parliament that , in dealing with the budget for 2001 , parliament in any case adopted my proposal to increase the school milk budget from eur 53 to 83 million .
the proposal now before us in the report that was unanimously accepted in the committee on agriculture and rural development - i would stress ' unanimously ' - and it was particularly gratifying that all parties in the committee on agriculture and rural development support the report - boils down to the fact that more money is needed , eur 96 million in fact .
for these reasons , and to see whether this regulation could be brought more up to date , i am pleased that the report has also been accepted in this sense in the committee and i hope it will also be in parliament .
there is an expansion in the number of products that can be used in the school milk regulation .
many specific proposals have been made and that means that in this way we can adapt the school milk regulation in a better way and integrate it better into the current dietary pattern .
if this report is accepted by this house , every year about eur 12 will be spent per child on subsidies for school milk and that is peanuts in my view .
i should also like to thank the commission for its willingness to provide the necessary information and also for preparing the report .
it would therefore be an appropriate moment if parliament were to approve this report and the school milk regulation .
mr president , at the request of mr cunha i am presenting our statement on this debate on the school milk scheme .
for more than 20 years , the european union has been financing the free distribution of milk in primary and secondary schools .
in recent years this action has amounted to an average annual expenditure of some eur 90 million for more than 300 million litres of milk , benefiting around 10 million children and young people , or nearly 20 % of eligible schoolchildren .
the first is its social impact , as it ensures a minimum balanced diet for many children and young people who otherwise would not have access to one .
the second reason is that , as there is a structural surplus in the market for milk products , this measure also represents an incentive to dispose of milk in a far more useful and constructive way than by distributing it , denaturing it or exporting it to third countries at even greater cost .
it is a pity that the european union does not have more actions of this kind for other products , instead of dumping them on international markets by means of subsidies which are sometimes twice their price on those markets , which makes it difficult to understand the alleged objective of budgetary savings .
the united states , which is famous for having a more individualist outlook with less solidarity , spends nearly 9 000 million dollars a year on distributing foods to schoolchildren , i.e. 100 times more than the european union .
and the european union is now proposing to move away from 100 % financing and is proposing 50 % cofinancing , which will especially penalise less wealthy countries like portugal .
in the evaluation report on the school milk regulation that the commission itself quotes , it says that if you only take account of the explicitly stated objectives of the regulation particularly to maintain and increase the consumption of dairy products and promote the sale of surpluses , the positive effects are marginal .
nevertheless , on 10 december , the commission decided not to withdraw the measures but to halve the subsidy .
i believe that the commission must confine itself to the core tasks and leave other matters to the member states .
amendments nos 9 and 10 specifically move the proposal towards a direction where less fatty products would be treated along the same lines as fattier products .
one clear result , of course , of the proposal before us to curtail or remove this subsidy on school milk will be decreased availability of milk and a drop in the consumption of milk in schools .
the proposals before us definitely militate against that .
this would be a catastrophe , not only for the health of schoolchildren - our future citizens - but to the viability of communities also .
we were looking to a europe of cohesion that seeks to bolster its deprived communities and help its poorest citizens .
it is clear to me that the proposals before us are not merely a means to curtail the subsidy , but rather , in the event of a lack of participation by member states in the wake of the subsidy cut , to terminate it entirely .
defending communities is far , far more important .
we must keep our milk farmers farming and the communities where they earn their living as viable entities .
the agricultural committee deserve every support in this regard .
the commission is proposing to reduce the level of community aid , by amending the regulation on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products .
increasingly young people go off to school without eating any breakfast or without having any milk in their morning meal .
nor do we forget that some children from very deprived backgrounds skip breakfast for financial reasons .
milk provides a very healthy and balanced diet , something we should all support .
we are in a situation in europe at the moment where we are pouring millions of euros into the agricultural industry , yet the farmers have never been worse off in their lives .
he has challenged us to look to the future , not just in relation to milk itself , but also to milk products and ways in which we can encourage children to drink milk .
mr president , for years i have been calling for the school milk scheme to be changed .
currently , full-cream milk is fully subsidised , semi-skimmed milk is semi-subsidised and skimmed milk receives no subsidy .
furthermore , a scheme with subsidies per pupil would be much easier to administer .
it is a real science calculating the fat percentages in milk and cheese .
i think , therefore , that we must vote for the amendments of my good colleague and friend , niels busk .
i would also like to thank my good colleague and close friend , freddy blak , of the socialist group , for his support for my amendment .
the school milk scheme concerns health and nutrition .
children and infants must learn healthy eating habits , and milk , with its protein and calcium content , is a very important part of this .
there are various traditions relating to which dairy products are consumed , and the scheme is simplified by awarding the subsidy on the basis of a quarter of a litre of milk per pupil per school-day .
in this way the scheme takes account of the differences in the milk traditions which exist in the different member states .
mr president , commissioner , the commission proposal to henceforth fund the school milk programme by means of 50 % cofinancing has evoked a furious response in the council and in parliament .
the union should develop its policy within this context .
for the same reasons , i am unable to accept amendments nos 8 and 10 , which are designed to link the level of aid to milk components other than fat .
finally , amendments nos 8 and 9 are intended to make it clear that the aid will be paid for a fixed quantity of milk per schoolchild per day .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m .
mr president , this debate on the guidelines on vertical restraints is the last in a series of four on an extremely technical subject , for now anyway .
the commissioner knows the subject and the members who are still to speak on this matter know at least as much as i do about it .
first of all , are we going to receive the evaluation which we asked for after three or four years of new policy in the sphere of vertical restraints ?
thirdly , the automobile distribution contracts for the time being fall outside the new policy , but the regulation for this sector expires in 2002 .
in conclusion , mr president , i should like to thank those members - unfortunately they are not here in the chamber - who also dealt with this subject in the committee on economic and monetary affairs , not only for this report , but also for the three reports that preceded it .
these issues cause problems , at least in my home country of finland , and in other small member states .
the 30 % market share limit provided for under the block exemption regulation will cause problems relating to equal treatment for existing petrol stations , at least in finland .
it is important to define unambiguously the relevant markets referred to in article 3 of the block exemption regulation .
these are amendments nos 2 , 3 and 4 .
the formula used is contained in section 147 of the commission guidelines on this subject , which is known as the investment depreciation period .
amendment no 3 refers to the setting of prices by the producer - the resale price - in certain cases , such as the launch of the product .
this is referred to in sections 38 and 39 of the commission guidelines , but it is clear that , in certain cases , we have to provide flexibility and we are sure that the commission will understand this .
lastly , amendment no 4 refers to the protection of producers against pressures applied by the distributor to force them to extend the contract .
we are talking about exclusive contracts , sections 131 et seq .
first of all , many thanks to you , mrs thyssen , for your excellent report .
second , my thanks also to the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for supporting this important reform project .
the draft is an important step in the reform of competition policy in respect of vertical restraints .
since the green paper was published in 1997 , the development of the institution of vertical distribution restraints has gone through various phases , including most recently the adoption of new regulation 2790 on the application of article 81 ( 3 ) of the treaty to categories of vertical agreements and concerted practices .
furthermore , in answer to your question , mrs thyssen , as to whether there will be a review , the answer is yes , there will indeed be a review of the guidelines after four years .
with regard to your question about horizontal measures , the commission is currently drawing up a set of guidelines relating to this horizontal cooperation agreement .
it is very likely that this will happen before the end of april .
i am delighted to report that the european parliament and the commission have worked together closely and constructively on this issue .
we will include this in the minutes , mr maccormick . ( the minutes were approved ) mr president , i only wanted to report my presence for the minutes .
mrs buitenweg , you cannot request this on your own .
such a request must be made by at least 32 members .
i notice that more than 32 members have made this request .
you will undoubtedly know that there is a quorum if one third of the meps are present in the chamber . ( the number of members present was counted ) i note that there is no quorum and that the vote on the pesala report will therefore take place in the next part-session .
report by mr maat ( a5-0074 / 200 ) , on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development , on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation ( ec ) no 1255 / 1999 on the common organisation of the markets in milk and milk products [ com ( 1999 ) 608 - c5-0047 / 2000 - 1999 / 0246 ( cns ) ] mr president , i am pleased to say that i , together with a number of other colleagues from my group , fully back the initiative which mrs buitenweg has taken .
if this is not the case , mr president , i would ask you to check the quorum before we proceed to vote on the maat report . ( more than 32 members rose in support of this request ) ( the president established that there was not a quorum ) mr president , i have been trying to catch your eye for a while now .
i would ask the members who this morning requested that the vote be postponed in the absence of a quorum to consider the following : if you want to reform the rules of procedure , which are indispensable in this house , if you want to improve our working practice , you cannot achieve this through impulsive actions ; instead you must initiate a full debate on reform of the house .
the delegates who are here this morning , who have done their work , who spent yesterday evening preparing for the work to be carried out today , are being punished here today , by a spontaneous action , for the fact that not everyone in parliament has done their homework .
mr bourlanges , i can perhaps put your mind at rest by informing you that i will , of course , refer this morning ' s matter to the bureau .
mr president , since there will no doubt be another quorum vote , i would like to remind the president and the members of this parliament that , during a quorum vote , it is not permitted to leave the chamber .
mr president , i think it is genuinely important .
mrs van der laan , i understand that you would like the quorum to be checked .
we need to check whether there are 32 members who wish to support you . ( more than 32 members rose in support of this request ) ( the president established that there was no quorum ) mr president , irrespective of whether this action was spontaneous or premeditated , it is still an act of sabotage by the anti-strasbourg lobby .
i do , however , consider that it is not right to criticise those who use an instrument which was adopted by democratic vote , such as the rules of procedure , for purposes which all may not support , but which are nevertheless permitted by the rules which we have established for ourselves .
i would ask , rather , why it is that many members voted in favour of working on fridays in strasbourg and yet are not in strasbourg today .
please do not ask me to name any particular member , but i guarantee that some of the 32 members who voted in favour of the request for a quorum are no longer here .
therefore , some of the 32 members have violated the rules of procedure .
i would much rather that the commission ' s office in copenhagen was a little more accessible .
mr president , i should like to thank mr andreasen for his question since it gives me the opportunity to express the extent to which i share his views , as , indeed , i emphasised during my hearing before this house last september .
it is true that we have all , not just the commission , but also parliament and the member states , made many mistakes in our information policy in the past .
we must all , not just the commission in isolation but the commission in collaboration with the member states and with parliament , proceed to examine the matter in depth and develop a new information policy .
moreover , let me tell you quite explicitly that i have taken careful note of the problems which exist .
obviously , the new information policy which we are going to be implementing will have to optimise the use of all the information and communication possibilities which this new technology makes available to us .
we have once again started to work within an interinstitutional working party on ' information ' , in which parliament is represented , and as part of this work , which is a tripartite effort involving the national states , the european parliament and the commission , i plan to present a communication to you in the near future outlining a new approach which i shall first present to the commission , some time before the summer , and which i shall then discuss with you .
i also think we must all clarify our respective roles .
she has a really tough task on her hands but i am sure that she will get the full support that she recognises that she needs from the european parliament .
the information deficit is actually more serious than the democratic deficit that we often talk about .
in the recent past , we have had the oostlander report in 1993 and the famous pex report in 1998 .
this week i had a visitors ' group from the winchester probus club , mainly retired people and , in general terms , well informed about world affairs .
finally , i have to address the problem of parliament in strasbourg .
you have mentioned two aspects which i would like to stress : the regional dimension and efficiency .
in your review of information policy , i would ask you to bear in mind the experience of certain member states .
that government ' s decision was to commission an information campaign on the euro from a very important advertising agency .
the commission has long had an office there .
i am sorry to say that this week it has been announced that the scotsman newspaper is closing down the office of its brussels and european correspondent .
i am glad that the commission and parliament have helped to make information available in scotland and i wish our own media would do likewise .
we , and i say that very clearly , the institutions of the european union , the european parliament and the delegates cannot bear sole responsibility for providing information on europe .
without the support of the member states , without the support of the public representatives at borough , county and national level , without the support of all the institutions , we will not get directly to the citizen , because either we are here doing our work or we are involved in communication and information processes with our citizens .
commissioner , i am waiting for your master plan , your schedule , your specific measures for implementation .
mr perry has addressed three specific points .
i know about this problem .
on 3 april we launched the new access facility - europe direct .
in any event it is important for all actors , including members of the european parliament , to intervene with the media so that they enhance their reporting about europe .
i would like to make it quite clear , once again , that the provision of information to citizens is not the exclusive responsibility of the commission .
that is also one of the focuses of the new information policy which i would like to introduce in the future .
this is probably the first time i have heard delegates referred to as soldiers , but we know what role we are playing here .
yesterday , there was a question from mr maccormick on the postponement of the vote on the com for bananas .
had we voted in accordance with our rules of procedure , we would no longer have been involved .
i did want to point this out because parliament should not be mistaken for a kindergarten , and this is the feeling i will have when i leave this chamber today .
mr president , our action is not finished .
i would really like to know what kind of nonsense this is ?
night flights and excessive noise the next item is the oral question to the commission ( b5-0206 / 2000 ) by mr lannoye , mrs auroi , mr bouwman , mr bowe , mrs cerdeira morterero , mrs corbey , mr costa paolo , mr deprez , mr desama , mrs gonzalez alvarez , mrs guy-quint , mr izquierdo collado , mr jonckheer , mrs korhola , mr kreissl-dorfler , mrs lienemann , mrs lucas , mrs mckenna , mrs maes , mr martinez martinez , mr papayannakis , mrs patrie , mr arvidsson , mr puerta , mr ries , mr rod , mr de roo , mrs sandbk , mrs schroedter , mrs sornosa martinez , mr staes , mr sterckx , mrs terron i cusi , mrs van brempt , mr vander taelen , mrs van lancker and mr ducarme , regarding night flights and noise pollution around airports .
standards were last established by the international civil aviation organisation in 1977 .
therefore , there has been no progress in this area for 23 years , and it is clear that aircraft replacement policies are not in any way motivated by the introduction of more stringent standards , to the extent that our aircraft are extremely outdated .
the recent commission communication on air transport and the environment defines a noise reduction strategy based both on economic factors , such as improving air traffic control and airport access , and on fostering progress in technology .
this is a good strategy which will limit the increase in noise pollution , but in my opinion and , i would argue , the opinion of a good number of members , it will not allow us , in the short term , to reach our objective which is that nobody is exposed to dangerously or uncomfortably high noise levels .
faced with this situation , a number of countries and regions have taken steps to restrict access to airports at night .
i also feel that the organisation of night air transport activities , which are inevitably going to be noisy whatever the level of technology employed , is certainly something which must be restricted and coordinated .
i made no contribution to this morning ' s debate and , with your permission , i would like to say a few words now regarding the vote .
personally , i would prefer a vote in which a large number of members take part to a vote which takes place at noon on friday in which only thirty or forty members participate .
i took part in this morning ' s action and i did not appreciate criticism from members who interpreted it as an anti-strasbourg manoeuvre .
mr president , i would like to thank mr lannoye for this initiative and for launching the debate in this chamber on this very important matter .
as pointed out in this communication , the commission does not see how uniform and restrictive rules governing restrictions on use , which would apply to all community airports , as would be the case , for example , for the general ban on night flights , could provide the most balanced solution to the issue of noise pollution attributable to certain airports .
however , it also considers that a common framework is necessary to coordinate the procedures adopted in order to reach these decisions so that when a region decides to ban night flights , for example , it does so in the same way as a similar region somewhere else .
i would also like to touch on the subject of hushkits .
the vote will take place after the debate .
mr president , noise pollution caused by aircraft is a very topical issue .
the noise pollution at zaventem has exceeded the permitted levels for a long time .
in a recent communication from the commission on air transport and the environment , an initial strategy has already been outlined .
mr president , commissioner , for some time the populations living close to barajas airport in madrid have protested every time there has been an extension of the airport , for various reasons , but mainly because of noise pollution .
i know that in the last two months the government of madrid has proposed a reduction in night flights , after 11.00 p.m. , but i also know that the measures that have been taken have not had any significant effect on the quality of life of the population .
from the joint motion for a resolution , i would like to highlight some of the proposals - please excuse any repetition - which i believe the european commission should take note of if it wants to reduce noise pollution : a global and integrated framework for reducing noise pollution which should lead to a framework directive with concrete and binding measures ; the uniform application of those measures in all member states so that there are no distortions ; a community framework for the classification of noise which will allow measures to be taken with the rigorous allocation of slots and a reduction in flights ; and progress towards the establishment of a common air space , which is not in conflict with local and regional measures .
in truth , mr president , if everybody disliked aircraft as much as i do and travelled by rail as much as i do , perhaps we would have fewer problems .
first of all , i must say that many of the problems are the result of bad planning or no planning at all .
local authority involvement is therefore important , although , i must stress , it needs to be within a general european legislative framework .
mr president , noise pollution caused by aircraft is mainly a problem to those living near airports .
i also back the other proposals to reduce noise pollution .
mr president , commissioner , your comments this morning on both subjects showed that we need not only rapid data highways , but also efficient air transport in europe to remain competitive .
the airports of liege and maastricht are within a radius of almost 200 km .
businesses , such as dhl , will then simply move to airports in other member states .
the much publicised and promised common framework for noise classification of aircraft could not be here soon enough , commissioner , especially given the russian situation .
a general ban on night flights would therefore seriously disrupt air transport activities .
most large airports place restrictions on the use of the noisiest types of aircraft or employ economic instruments in order to limit their use .
pages 34 and 35 of the communication on air transport and the environment contain an action plan setting forth a precise schedule .
i would , however , like to request that the vote be deferred , if only out of a desire for consistency with this morning ' s events , and also because it would be fitting for a resolution as important as this to be voted in by more than 40 or 50 members .
mr lannoye , i understand that you are moving that the vote be adjourned .
mr president , i am , of course , making this request on behalf of my group .
in this case , rule 146 of the rules of procedure applies .
mr president , i would like to back mr lannoye ' s motion .
this seems to me to be in the interest of the good rules of this house .
mr posselt , you are absolutely right .
mr meijer , i would thank you and other members for their creativity in coming up with solutions to this problem .
mr president , i welcome this point of order , for foresters and the forestry sector cannot wait for the outcome of these rather irregular debates which can only have one effect today , and that is to send out a message proclaiming that the european parliament is made up of absentee members , whereas most of our fellow members , including those here today , are certainly not relaxing in front of their televisions but are working in the field .
as it happens , we already expressed our sympathy , as we are wont to do , in a resolution of 20 january 2000 , and requested that the commission supply us with certain information and undertake to help those of our citizens - and they were numerous - who were in difficulties , for this disaster affected the whole of europe .
we are not asking you to include timber in that policy , but it appears that europe could have employed equivalent measures to assist the timber market during this exceptional crisis .
these are not virtual instruments .
may i refer you to mr barnier ' s speeches at the plenary sitting of 18 january 2000 , when he stressed that the commission would willingly employ every available means to assist the member states .
nevertheless , with regard to forest damage , i must also remind you that the european parliament , notably in its resolution of 31 january 1997 on the forestry strategy of the european union , and also the council of the european union , have repeatedly stressed that the treaty does not lay down any specific competence for a union forestry policy .
it is therefore , first and foremost , national aid to the timber industry which is the most appropriate means , at national , regional or local level , of supporting the worst affected forestry sites in the industry , and the member states have to decide on the procedures for providing this aid .
the aid programmes notified by the french government do , in fact , contain a general measure supporting the windfall transportation which may result in some of the timber being transported to countries outside the union .
with regard to the joint financing of aid programmes proposed by member states under article 30 of regulation ec / 1257 / 99 on support for rural development from the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund ( eaggf ) , i would further stress that the commission is prepared to be extremely flexible .
in the meantime , two member states , including france , have presented their adapted programmes , which now include a substantial section on bolstering the forestry industry following the storms at the end of 1999 .
the vote will take place after the debate .
mr president , first of all , i would like to congratulate you on the way you handled the debate this morning .
but commissioner , i would also like , and i feel that this is essential , the institutions of the european union to bear witness to the solidarity which unites the member states , in particular in the event of exceptional disasters such as the storms of 26 december last which caused such unprecedented damage to a number of forest regions in france , germany and austria .
it is therefore essential to be able to draw on the structural funds to finance special measures for forests and the timber industry in the case of disasters in objective 2 or former objective 5b areas .
the european union must take full responsibility for its citizens .
commissioner , when you say that national aid is the important thing now , then i would say to you that this also means that , in this instance , you do not want to organise the common european market .
mr barnier was very emphatic in his speech , assuring us that the european union was , in effect , going to do something to help the victims .
and , in this regard , may i say that the european union ' s policy consists of robbing peter to pay paul .
mr president , the document on the difficulties faced by the forestry sector following the storms in december 1999 only refers to the damage caused to the wooded areas in order to better illustrate the price drops in the timber sector and the implications for foresters and timber exporters .
for my part , i would like to speak up on behalf of forestry workers , who receive no mention at all , even though it is their efforts which are keeping the timber sector going .
they are demanding to be able to retire at 55 and calling for an improvement in their working conditions , which are still antiquated and result in the physical deterioration and sometimes death of a number of workers each year .
we support these legitimate claims .
i support the community initiatives in favour of the tropical forests , but i am astounded that there is not the same enthusiasm to come to the aid of our own devastated forests .
in baden-wurttemberg alone the accumulation of storm wood runs to about 25 million solid cubic metres .
just the cost of remedying the damage in baden-wurttemberg , the area for which i can speak as the delegate , runs to about dm 1.5 billion , of which dm 300 million are needed simply for reforestation .
i have seen how the hurricane took the roof off our stable and i have seen the state our private woods are in .
he indicated , as you have today , commissioner , that you are willing to give consideration to , to help ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , the natural disaster which overtook european countries was tragic .
moreover , the same applies within the framework of regulation 1257 / 99 .
commissioner , you have been extremely active this morning .
joint motion for a resolution replacing the resolutions on the economic effects of the recent storms on the forestry sector in europe ( parliament adopted the resolution ) declarations of vote and other declarations mr president , i voted in favour of this resolution and i am glad that those behind the sabotage which , from 9 o ' clock this morning , prevented us from carrying out our work properly and voting are no longer present to turn this parliament into an undignified circus .
i was a member of this parliament 35 years ago and in all my time i have never seen such abuse of the rules .
in the interest of forest owners , including in my own state where , to be fair , the last storm disaster was not as devastating as here , for example , in alsace , i hope that measures will be taken by the eu , as proposed here , in order , above all , to prevent small and medium-sized enterprises going under .... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , i would very quickly like to go back to the events which took place during the explanation of votes or during the point of order this morning .
i am very new to this parliament and i would just like to express my deep disappointment at the incident .
on behalf of this parliament , i would like to apologise to the people of ethiopia , to the men , women and children who are suffering in a tragic situation and in relation to whom parliament was prevented from adopting a position this morning .
we were able to vote on the last two items , which were also urgent , but , in all honesty , i would have preferred to have voted for the people of ethiopia and to have lent them the support of this parliament .
mr president , i would like to support what mr daul has just said .
i notice that , today , we are concluding this sitting with approximately fewer than 40 members here to make decisions .
but i am one of the people who took the initiative and i am still here , just as i am here every friday .
nor can i fail to mention the fact , which has already been referred to here , that the saboteurs of this morning ' s sitting did not take part in the vote , and i am delighted that the ppe has suggested a nominal vote , which will clarify the matter .
however , i am of the opinion that those who wish to ensure that the work of parliament continues to be carried out should also be present .
they are no less valid because only a few delegates participated .
mr president , i would first of all like to thank the president of this eventful sitting , the members present and mrs reding .
the subject of the forestry sector is now open to debate , and we must take up the issue of natural disasters as well , for we cannot endeavour to draw closer to our citizens and then explain to them that we are unable to help them when they are in trouble , while , at the same time , we are sending task forces abroad .
i would like to express my support for the comments of mr daul , who worked together with evelyne gebhardt to draft this resolution on the timber industry , and to express my regret and shock at the fact that we have exploited the plight of the people of ethiopia to further our petty games .
mr president , i , too , regret the actions which prevented this house from working this morning .
i have been in this house for 21 years in all , although only 6 of those as a parliamentarian .
i have taken part in every friday session for 21 years , even when i had another job and was not a delegate .
however , irrespective of that , i would like to say that i have repeatedly seen such attempts over these 21 years .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday , 14 april 2000 .
madam president , i would like to make a statement on this international press freedom day on the situation in tunisia and request that you intervene .
thank you , mr baron crespo .
we have just learnt that the brother of taoufik ben brik has been sentenced to three months in prison .
i am referring to the disarray in parliament ' s calendars and agendas , at least for this current year .
on 13 april , we had received a departmental note stipulating which days were holidays and which were not .
however , to change dates , as this departmental note indicates , to introduce holidays which did not exist before , is a serious lapse in planning in an institution with 600 meps and thousands of employees .
i would just like to say that i propose to raise this matter with the bureau this evening .
thank you , mrs banotti .
the report is accessible via the internet , as is the spanish government ' s response .
a week ago , a spanish court sentenced five former government officials , including a civil guard general , to up to 71 years in prison .
madam president , coming back to a point that was raised earlier on : 9 may is , as you know , europe day and parliament will be closed .
thank you , mr miller .
thank you , mr baron crespo .
it was reported in the news this morning that the euro has already fallen below the psychological limit of 90 cents , which augurs even more worrying and serious falls in value .
somebody has to give an explanation and announce measures that can restore minimum levels of psychological confidence in what has now become the common currency of many of the union ' s member states .
thank you , mr ribeiro .
madam president , my group intends to request that , in the debate on monetary policy , a commission statement on the information policy that it is planning on the euro be added .
it seems to me that in this respect we should be as aggressive in our defence of the euro as our counterparts in the united states congress are in defence of the dollar .
ladies and gentlemen , i am perhaps the longest-standing parliamentarian in this house , having been elected to the french parliament 45 years ago and having sat in this house for sixteen years .
madam president , in these circumstances parliament has powers which are fully regulated , in the absence of a uniform electoral system , by means of article 12 of the 1976 act concerning the election of representatives of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage , of which paragraph 2 , which i will read in french , since that is the text i possess , says : " lorsque la vacance resulte de l 'application des dispositions nationales en vigueur dans un etat membre , celui-ci en informe le parlement europeen qui en prend acte " . [ " where a seat falls vacant pursuant to national provisions in force in a member state , the latter shall inform the european parliament , which shall take note of the fact " . ] we are therefore talking about a formal and fully regulated competence .
for that reason , madam president , as soon as i received a note from the competent departments , i called a meeting of the legal affairs committee , which will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m .
madam president , i would like to speak pursuant to rule 6 , in the first instance , and then , if you permit me , to rule 7 ( 4 ) ( 2 ) , but i shall be brief and to the point .
rule 6 incorporates the provisions covering the waiver of parliamentary immunity into our rules of procedure .
review of the financial perspective the next item is the statement by the commission on the review of the financial perspective .
mr levi , formerly spokesman for the commission , has been appointed director of the forward studies unit .
all these staffing decisions were taken as part of the reform of the commission and i think they were the right decisions in the context of the further reform measures that are needed .
let me remind you that the berlin decision on agenda 2000 was taken on exactly the same day as the outbreak of war in kosovo .
according to the commission ' s estimates , the financial requirement for albania , croatia , bosnia-herzegovina , macedonia and also montenegro up to the year 2006 will be eur 1.5 billion , i.e .
the view of the commission is that we will have to raise the external action ceiling here for the next few years by eur 300 billion a year .
in this connection , the commission made the following proposal on financing this additional requirement : in the years 2001 and 2002 , these resources should be taken from resources previously earmarked for agricultural policy and reallocated to the external action heading .
the necessary redeployment is the result mainly of comparable cuts in the tacis programme for the countries of the former soviet union .
let me conclude by pointing out the following : there is another point where the decision on the revision of the financial perspective also responds to a request by parliament .
if you are taking money from category 1 for the next two years , where do you expect that money to come from in 2003 ?
but the commission is proposing that both arms of the budgetary authority should try to make savings in particular areas during the annual budgetary procedure in order to find these 300 million .
let me stress once again that , in my view , we can finance this increase in foreign policy resources within the overall ceiling decided in berlin and that the appropriations for serbia should only be disbursed once we see real democratic developments there .
having said that , i fail to see your grounds for considering that agricultural expenditure is not going to be used in its entirety , as it should , nor how you could release sums , that you describe as minimal , for the heading covering international actions and foreign policy .
fine , i can accept that , but what gives you the right - you spoke of very specific criteria , so tell us what they are - what gives you the right to think that too much money has been earmarked for other parts of the world , apart from the fact that you need that money for kosovo .
mr bourlanges , to answer your last question , the world bank ' s estimate of the requirements in kosovo was indeed expressed in dollars .
in its proposal the commission has now allocated eur 1.1 billion for the period 2000-2006 .
it is not therefore charging appropriations already disbursed for kosovo in 1999 .
in reply to what you said about agricultural expenditure , let me point out the following : this year , given the fluctuations in the exchange rates , we will be spending about eur 500 million less on agriculture and the estimates for next year are that we will need about 650 million less , assuming a parity euro-dollar rate .
i can assure you that the commission did not approach the question of how to finance this new priority , this new task , by looking for some kind of bottomless pit ; it simply took a very practical decision for the years 2001 and 2002 .
in practice , the commission proposal means redeploying eur 600 million from agriculture policy for the years 2001 and 2002 .
in the event of a political change in serbia during 2001 , we could also resort to the flexibility reserve .
mr manisco , the commission regards it as most important to promote cooperation between the states and the regions with funds from the european budget , with your help .
that is why the proposal on the review of the financial perspective specifically earmarks approximately eur 80-90 million for cooperation projects .
secondly , as i pointed out , we have allocated eur 40 million for aid to serbia in this year ' s budget as well , but these funds will only be used in a targeted manner in areas where the democratic opposition forces are currently endeavouring to establish a democratic system and the rule of law .
this year ' s budget includes eur 540 million for the region as a whole .
this item is closed .
vote - ( nl ) mr president , i can advise you how to vote on each of the four amendments .
according to experts and specialists in child nutrition , milk is indeed essential to the proper intellectual and physical development of children , of all children .
a proposal such as this represented a threat to the health of our children .
furthermore , it totally contradicted the conclusions of the agriculture council of 14 and 15 june 1999 .
it was only after long , intense discussions that the commission proposed to increase the budget line by eur 31 million , with the total amount committed to aid for providing schools with milk then rising to eur 84 million .
this is the only way to ensure that this system survives .
we therefore view the commission ' s proposal concerning cofinancing as a step in the right direction .
the reason for this intervention is to clarify why this house should oppose the commission ' s proposals to cut subsidies for school milk by half .
as i have stated in my report , what is particularly disconcerting is the fact that seven out of a total of fourteen essen specific projects have still not secured adequate funding , nor has a definitive timetable been drawn up for their implementation .
the main aim of community funding is to finance feasibility and technical studies , as well as interest subsidies and loan guarantees .
the fifth proposal is that the commission should accord greater importance to the forthcoming revision of the ten guidelines in order to improve access from europe ' s island and remote regions to the central regions .
another proposal in my report is that there should be close cooperation between the commission , germany , austria and italy on the brenner base-level tunnel , a community project of the utmost importance which , of course , comes within the scope of trans-european networks .
community policy in the field of trans-european networks is of major importance because it is not possible to have a common transport policy without a convergent infrastructures policy , as is stressed in the maastricht treaty .
however , the member states must respect the pledges made , and the commission must also take into account the guidelines established for the b5-700 budget line - a major budget line established in 1998 - promoting more environmentally friendly models and , above all , taking the different factors into consideration where a trans-european link passes through densely populated areas or highly industrialised regions .
for this reason , we also consider that appropriations set aside for these projects must not exceed 50 % and that , after due analysis , the amounts still available for projects on which little progress has been made could be recouped and used for other projects with the same priorities , including environmental priorities .
the annual report shows that shortcomings exist in the way money spent on the development of trans-european networks is monitored , and insufficient details are available as to the results achieved through the use of funds .
the rapporteur has quite rightly pointed out that , of the fourteen essen specific projects , seven still require confirmation of their funding and timetables .
in the future , greater care should be taken in selecting such specific projects .
at the same time , we shall also have to give consideration to the link between regional policy and transport .
the trans-european transport networks , and the 14 specific projects in particular , have not succeeded in any of the aims they were in fact intended to achieve , even though a great deal of money has already been invested .
on the contrary , unemployment has risen : even in 1995 , in the ten poorest regions , unemployment was seven times higher than in the richest regions , while today it is eight times higher , and rising .
the commission ' s 1998 annual report on trans-european transport networks gives a clear overall picture of the progress that has been made in certain specific projects as well as containing valuable information on the contributions made to these infrastructural projects by the various sources of community funding .
i share the concern of the rapporteur over the fact that seven of the fourteen essen projects are still facing difficulties because their funding is not totally guaranteed and no timetables have been drawn up for their implementation .
it would be useful if the commission , in its future annual reports , specified what funding has been provided by national , regional and local public bodies and by the private sector , in addition to european funding , with a view to setting up the trans-european transport networks .
i hope that in these new guidelines they will accord greater importance to improving access to trans-european network funding for europe ' s island and remote regions .
a positive start has been made , but the situation looks pretty grim as regards the other projects and , in particular , for the remote regions , as mr collins has already pointed out .
so , in response to what mrs schroedter said , i feel that we must not lose sight of the fact that what these major projects are mainly concerned with is the development of railway infrastructures .
there are , however , difficult choices to be made in order to avoid the huge pollution-related problems currently in the news in austria , as well as in italy and germany .
this concerns member states , of course , and certainly italy in particular , which has not supported this project with sufficient vigour , but it also concerns the commission , as the rapporteur made very clear .
it is the commission ' s duty to come up with measures which encourage both public authorities and private companies to invest in these huge trans-european networks .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the development of an efficient infrastructure for transport in europe is essential , particularly for isolated regions and rural areas , in france as well as in many other states .
it is important that the general rules governing the granting of community financial aid to the trans-european networks are strictly complied with .
indeed , trans-european transport policy has considerable repercussions as regards the sustainable development of local economies and job creation .
we endorse paragraph 9 in the report , which states that the commission should faithfully adhere to the budgetary guidelines established for ten projects .
the commission must , as quickly as possible , put forward fundamental measures and incentives to promote these specific projects and , in coordination with the member states concerned , draw up a timetable for their implementation .
moreover , this project will have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the union as a whole .
in fact she has insulted us as well , for parliament and the council adopted the 1996 guideline by codecision on a proposal from the council .
let me just mention two projects that have been successful .
our committee proposes a four-sided agreement between the three states concerned and the union .
one can therefore quite easily understand the great interest this country and its representatives have in trans-european networks , which i wish to talk about today .
the commission has presented us in its 1998 annual report with a rough picture of the state of progress in the construction of these networks , a picture which the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism - which , in the report under discussion , is asking for greater efficiency in the whole network construction operation - would like to be more detailed and informative .
the trans-european networks policy is not , however , being implemented in such a way as to resolve this crucial issue , despite the fact that it was introduced with the specific aim of establishing direct links between remote countries and the union ' s central regions .
the debate on the report by mr hatzidakis , whom i congratulate , provides us with a good opportunity to get to grips with the political dimension of the current situation and to try to find a solution to it , in line with the decisive reform of the trans-european networks policy which is due to be implemented in the 2000-2006 period .
i hope that we will be able to bring about the changes that the european union needs in order to achieve the regional balance and social cohesion that we are advocating .
mr president , this annual report clearly shows that europe is not providing itself with the means to implement its trans-european transport networks policy .
it therefore proposes to have recourse to private funds , in the form of partnerships , and this , moreover , is an essential element of the project .
this approach to rail transport raises the issue of public service .
we must make use of private companies because they profit from the infrastructures , but in the form of tax deductions and not by them having an interest in the capital of railway companies .
the european commission ' s annual report on trans-european networks once again sets out the progress made with many transport projects and emphasises the important part the tens play in protecting the environment .
i take the view that the 14 projects decided at essen play a very significant role in the extension of the european transport networks and , like many speakers before me , i want to stress the enormous importance of the brenner base-level tunnel .
now we also need a clear political resolve , and not just on the part of the member states .
trans-european networks are essential for the completion of the internal market , but also for the economic and social cohesion of the european union .
the commission ' s report on the implementation of the trans-european networks in 1998 outlines , in general terms , the results of the financial implementation of the priorities that were established , such as rail transport to exceed the 50 % minimum that had been laid down .
firstly , the need for investment in the trans-european networks that compensates for the decrease seen during the 1990s , not just by increasing appropriations , but also through the participation of the private sector and through the use of eurobonds .
secondly , the adoption of fundamental measures which will stimulate progress in the seven specific projects still experiencing difficulties , so that their completion can be scheduled and the necessary work accomplished .
thirdly , that in future reviews of the trans-european networks , greater importance is attached to the access of the remote regions to the central regions and to island regions .
to conclude , i should like to stress the fact that economic and social cohesion is not compatible with the commission ' s working proposals on this matter for 2000 , because by seeking to concentrate investment in existing bottlenecks , we would be favouring the central regions , to the detriment of remote regions , such as portugal , which are obviously the regions with the greatest need for transport networks that bring them closer to more highly-developed areas .
the participation of private capital will necessarily result in a quest for profit , to the detriment both of users and of those who work in the sector .
as stipulated in the explanatory statement of the report , public investment is continually decreasing and in less than twenty years , has fallen from 1.5 % of the european union ' s gnp to 0.9 % .
if the member states of the european union do not adopt a new policy , or , in other words , if they do not prioritise investment in public services rather than endless subsidies to the bosses , any decision on a genuine public transport service operating on a european scale under the best safety conditions will remain nothing but empty rhetoric .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the commission ' s report states that 1998 saw the consolidation of the trans-european networks and outlines the progress made with various projects in the area of transport , energy and tele- and data communications .
unless there is an increase in the financial contribution made by national , regional and local public bodies and by the private sector , we will not see any significant progress in this area in the foreseeable future .
i should nevertheless like to stress the fact that recourse to private finance should never be an obstacle to the development of communications in regions which currently have a per capita income well below the community average .
with regard to the future review of the guidelines for trans-european transport networks , i feel i must once again draw the commission ' s attention to the need to attach greater importance to improving access to europe ' s remote and isolated regions , and to focus particularly on establishing sustainable transport networks .
the commission ' s work programme for the year 2000 lays down that the review of the guidelines for trans-european transport networks must concentrate on reducing bottlenecks in order to rationalise traffic in europe and to make it flow more freely .
mr president , growth and employment in europe depend to a large degree upon exploiting european infrastructure effectively .
it is no secret that i am very much in favour of a permanent link between denmark and germany , and i am glad that the new danish minister for transport is also a supporter of the project .
building a permanent link between germany and denmark will create many new and much-needed jobs in the area .
mr president , i would firstly like to express my sincere gratitude for the work accomplished by mr hatzidakis , chairman of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , on the review of the trans-european networks which , in the coming months , i will have to present to this house .
accordingly , i will take this opportunity to make some observations on behalf of the commission .
firstly , i fully agree with mr hatzidakis on the importance given to community policy on trans-european networks and i also share parliament ' s concern , expressed not only by mr hatzidakis , but also by the draftsperson of the opinion of the committee on budgets and by other meps , on the need for this policy to be provided with adequate financial resources .
in this respect , i would like to thank parliament for its support for the provision of a total of eur 4.6 billion for the period 2000-2006 for this chapter .
in this respect , i share the european parliament ' s concern with regard to the adequate funding of transport networks , but i believe that we can jointly assume some of these responsibilities .
i would like to remind you that we know that community support for projects carried out during 1996 , 1997 and 1998 has accounted for 30 % of the total , which is a very significant figure .
it is true that these include projects in objective 1 areas and cohesion countries , which has allowed the percentage of cofinancing to be greater .
however , i must tell you that we cannot provide you with overall information , because we are not only talking about community finance but also about finance provided by individual countries and private sectors in some cases , as well as regions and local authorities .
furthermore , some of the projects present great technical difficulties .
we are talking about 54 kilometres of tunnel in one of our most mountainous areas , with a series of unknown factors and uncertainties which require that the project be guaranteed as far as possible before we make such a huge investment as the one required for the brenner tunnel .
it is perhaps better to begin something late , but to begin with all the guarantees in place , than to find half way through that the studies have not warned us of some difficulty or other , meaning that we have to go into reverse , which would cause even greater delays .
furthermore , i would like to point out that the level of funding in terms of the total appropriations for the 14 principal ten projects has been 60 % .
i will be presenting this review report and an initial proposal shortly .
so when we clear a bottleneck in bordeaux , we are in fact benefiting the development of an area of the iberian peninsula .
what i mean to say is that acting in a central area does not always harm the interests of the remote areas , but , on the contrary , in many cases it is perfectly interrelated .
mr president , lastly , i would like to refer to the question of the intelligent management of traffic .
this aspect will also be included as a key element in the review of the trans-european networks .
thank you , commissioner de palacio .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
i will now move on to the key point in your communication , namely the fact that there is no external policy for european aviation , in other words that the rights with regard to third countries have been negotiated bilaterally .
the opportunities for business and job creation during the last decade have played a major part in the economies of countries in europe and worldwide .
the report covers a number of areas and outlines fairly accurately the way the aviation industry has developed over the last ten years .
i fully accept that there are challenges which need to be addressed such as problems with congestion , in particular air traffic control .
however , i believe that the commission has a responsibility to put forward more balanced views which do not undermine the value and success of an industry which has made an enormous contribution , not only to the countries of the european union but worldwide .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats supported mr sterckx ' s report in the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism as it will support it in plenary .
it would be better still if the amendment on passengers ' right to information tabled by the group of the party of european socialists were to be adopted in addition .
as rapporteur for a very good commission communication on aviation and environment i know that the issue of environment and competitiveness is a very live one with strong feelings on both sides of the debate .
it makes the case that the world ' s 16 000 commercial jet aircraft produce more than 600 million tonnes of co2 every year - nearly as much as all the countries of africa put together .
it makes the case that the number of people flying will almost double in the next fifteen years .
mr sterckx has included environment in this own report .
i very much welcome that but i would also like to see environment automatically mainstreamed through all commission reports and communications .
the enormous competition within the industry has led to a price war in certain sectors .
the number of passengers and , alongside this , the number of flights , is growing at an alarming rate .
the pressure on personnel in the sector is increasing both socially and financially .
mr president , madam vice-president , ladies and gentlemen , i just want to shed more light on one aspect of the sterckx report , the question of airspace control , air traffic control .
if we follow the example of the european economic area with norway and iceland , then there will no problem with including switzerland in the same system .
let us hope that if the member states really provide the vice-president with what she wants , she can then present us with a good proposal that also includes short-term measures which can enter into force this summer .
another result of liberalisation has been the practice of co-sharing , of airline alliances , and in some instances even takeovers .
it is very easy to say that liberalisation in aviation has been a glowing success , without ever recognising that there is also a negative side .
my group accepts that gradual liberalisation is a way forward but only if safety , working conditions and passenger rights are safe-guarded and strengthened .
my group welcomes the latest decision by the commission to launch a campaign to inform passengers of their rights - something which the airlines in particular have failed to do over many years .
finally , my group looks forward to receiving from the commission its new proposals regarding slot-allocation , even though they have been a long time in coming .
mr president , the report we are discussing today deals with the results of the liberalisation of the air transport sector in the european union , which was concluded in 1993 .
we have supported this liberalisation process so that bilateral barriers may be lifted , ownership restrictions changed , technical standards harmonised , and suitable safety standards established and so that the conditions of liberalisation may promote greater transparency with regard to how air transport development policy is framed and allow , above all , the inclusion of environmental considerations in production within the aeronautical industry , in tariff policy and in the management of air traffic .
a key point raised by the rapporteur is the current situation in which , while the aviation industry is liberalised and operates in an open european market , the authorities which control the air space , the airports and the regulating bodies , as well as the companies providing services to the air transport sector , still operate from an excessively local point of view .
we must not forget that european airspace is a mosaic made up of 15 sovereign member states , which , for a variety of reasons , mainly military , find it difficult to relinquish part of their sovereignty in this area .
this proposal , aside from abrogating the sovereign right of each country over its own air space , will give rise to confusion and will have particularly negative and dangerous repercussions on air safety as , objectively speaking , the competition which is being vaunted here as the trump card will be competition for maximum profit and not for maximum air safety .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we have seen that the aim of mr sterckx ' s report was to guarantee security , safety , consumer protection , fair competition and environmental protection .
furthermore , paragraph 8 calls for , and i quote , " the operational bodies responsible for atc to be privatised " .
we are totally opposed to any kind of further privatisation , which could exacerbate the already deteriorating working conditions , in this area which is so closely linked to passenger safety .
to conclude , in order to guarantee the primacy of safety regulations over all other considerations , air traffic control must remain a public and national service .
it has come , i believe , at a time when the aviation industry is very much in the limelight , what with the takeover agreement between swiss air and sabena , the breakdown of the marriage between klm and alitalia , as well as the vicissitudes surrounding malpensa .
it is estimated that air traffic will double in the next fifteen years .
what is actually preventing us from taking a number of additional measures , except for a powerful lobby of airline companies and a misconceived concept of sovereignty in some countries which refuse to let go of the management of their own national airspace ?
mr president , first of all i would like to thank our colleague , dirk sterckx , who has put an enormous amount of work into a report which is extremely important as it is a policy document that will lead to a great deal of further discussion .
i live in bordeaux , but it is more expensive for me to fly from there to lisbon than to fly to new york via paris , and if i wish to fly to any other french city , i have to change aeroplanes at an airport in paris .
mr president , the resolution submitted for parliament ' s consideration on air transport contains serious dangers which i should like to highlight .
the resolution gives the green light to the deregulation of air transport and sees the privatisation of the main body of airlines and the development of unbridled competition as something positive .
instead of establishing a joint transport development plan , the european union , using an intermodal approach between air and rail , has , quite to the contrary , moved towards privatisation and deregulation .
the result of this is traffic saturation and pollution and , at the same time , a deterioration in working conditions and in the status of those employed in air transport , as companies subcontract as many of their activities as possible in order to minimise social costs .
the atm 2000 report summarises the financial aims of this approach and it is pretty bad .
this is why we are opposed to this resolution , which in fact seeks to place air traffic control in the clutches of the financial interests of large companies , to the detriment of passenger safety .
the importance of this is clearly illustrated by the increase in the number of airlines or the increase , much less spectacular perhaps , but significant nevertheless , in the number of routes where there are more than two competitors .
airlines have developed innovative strategies in order to adapt to the growth of the market and the challenges of competition , but despite their restructuring efforts they still suffer a large degree of fragmentation and financial fragility in comparison with their principal international competitors , and i am referring specifically to the us airlines .
it has appealed against them at the court of justice and i hope that the judgement of the court will allow us to put an end to this situation and do what we have to do : enter into a bilateral agreement with the united states as the european union as a whole , as a single internal market , and not divided up into different countries .
one of the objectives of the negotiation of a common transatlantic air space is precisely to resolve , by common agreement with the united states , the current situation caused by the unilateral actions of the different countries which have signed up to these agreements .
it is true that the commission authorised the injection of public capital - only once , as a one-off and subject to strict conditions - with the aim of helping companies to effectively carry out the transition from a regulated market to an open market .
companies have been able to confront the situation and liberalisation has significantly benefited consumers , although it is true that it has not benefited all consumers in the same way ; for example , it has provided less benefit in relation to short-haul business trips where undoubtedly the lowest fares are not usually adequate and cannot be used .
i would like to end by referring to some of the questions that have been raised .
the issue of gibraltar and the agreements reached recently by the two countries involved do not affect transport .
in this regard , therefore , the situation remains as it was before that bilateral agreement between these two countries of the union .
on the other hand , the question of slot allocation must be the subject of a commission proposal since we cannot accept the current situation , in which many slots are lost , not all of them are properly used and , furthermore , let us be honest , there is a black market in them .
we will make a proposal to the effect that slot allocation should be an administrative right granted under licence .
the environment is a key issue in the development of aviation and , of course , efficiency in the consumption of fuel per passenger is improving every day , although it is true that the growth in air transport is exceeding the improvements achieved in efficiency .
lastly , i would like to make it clear that our primary concern , despite the fact that i have left it to the end , is safety .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
i would remind you that the vote on this matter will take place on 17 may 2000 .
at the moment , therefore , while parliament has still not taken a position on administrative reform - which we are observing with great attention and which we all hope will , this time , truly be a great success - i wish to say that it is appropriate at this stage to watch how the commission is putting these good intentions , these projects to reform the appointments policy , into practice .
to give another example , it cannot be put down to merit that there are 22 a1 or a2 spaniards and 16 belgian ones .
it is important that in a procedure which needs to be transparent , merit is easily explicable and comprehensible .
nobody would say - i certainly would not - that the fact that there are so few a1 or a2 women is due to an assessment of merit .
i must tell my friends that behind every great woman there is a great man , because everybody knows that my wife is worth much more than i am .
it is important that we fulfil the commitment to double the number of female appointments .
the honourable member is , i know , very clear about the fact that responsibility for employment policies and patterns in the commission , as a separate institution , lies with the commission itself .
however , in order to provide useful information to this house and to the wider public , i am glad to respond to the two questions which the honourable member has put down .
to provide comprehensive detail , that paper also sets out the total number of senior officials from each nationality in the commission and of the total numbers of all a grade staff of each nationality in the commission .
a copy of that paper has also been provided to the secretariat-general of this parliament for information and , naturally , it will be generally available to honourable members .
in this oral answer , therefore , i will summarise the situation relating to senior appointments as at last thursday , 27 april .
since the present commission took office , six appointments have been made involving promotions to grade a1 .
there have been fourteen other transfers at director-general or deputy director-general level , which did not involve promotion in grade , although in four cases relating to spanish , french , german and british officials , the changes meant advances in responsibility to full director-general posts .
in summary therefore , a total of 25 promotions to senior appointments have been made since this commission took office .
these figures are accurate as of 27 april 2000 .
as the house will know , in an international and multinational institution like the commission , it is essential , as the honourable member said , that the allocation of jobs broadly reflects the diversity of the union that we serve and uses abilities effectively .
in response to the honourable member ' s second question relating to the rules and criteria applied to senior appointments , i draw the attention of the house to the decisions on the subject which the commission adopted and published last september and last december .
against this background the following information may be useful to the house : the guiding principle of the system which the commission uses is that appointments to all senior posts will be determined on evidence of the merit of candidates , including managerial capacity and other relevant abilities .
candidates for a1 and a2 jobs are interviewed by a panel of senior officials which has been assisted in the lifetime of this commission by an advisory external expert with relevant experience in executive selection .
the commissioner responsible for personnel then formally proposes to the college the candidate who has been agreed upon with the portfolio commissioner and with the president of the commission .
i can confirm that all appointments made by this commission have been in accordance with these rules which are themselves based on article 29 of the staff regulations and that will continue to be the course followed .
to achieve your objectives of moving the commission towards a world-leading international public service , it is clear that the appointments and capabilities of your team are going to be critical .
you say in your white paper that there is a real need to raise management skills and create a common management culture across the commission .
if you ask me , you would be shooting the commission in the foot and , in my opinion , you would be shooting yourself in the foot more so than the commission and this is not helpful .
one can enter into a large-scale discussion on the decisions taken today with regard to the nationalities of the people who have been moved , appointed or who have left .
mr president , in september the commission adopted some excellent principles which were to be applied with regard to its staffing policy , and particularly in the appointment of senior officials , but let us now examine today ' s appointments in the light of those fine principles .
commissioner kinnock faithfully made a list of the commission ' s senior appointments and promotions , but , commissioner , you did not say how many women were nominated for , or promoted to , these posts .
it may be that the decisions you adopted this morning have in some way assuaged the group ' s thirst for knowledge , but this chamber appears to be unusually empty for a debate on such a major issue .
the new commission has been in office for only seven months .
the question we really have to ask here is not to the commission but to the ppe group as to the motivation behind the question .
i believe that this commission is very open to taking on board some - i hope all - of parliament ' s concerns and criticisms , because we have criticisms too .
the pse group want to engage in a constructive debate because we are interested in the outcome of reform , not in scoring short-term political points that do nothing but damage the european union .
turning very quickly to the substance of the questions : in the commission hearings the european parliament asked for rotation of a1 and a2 posts and to end national flags on senior jobs .
the commission has taken positive steps since they came into power , ensuring that appointments are made on the basis of merit .
finally , i would like to ask the ppe group to refrain from such politically motivated and unconstructive questions as we have here .
thank you very much , mrs morgan .
since the commission delved into the details on 27 april , perhaps we can be told how many men and women there are in category a posts , not in category a posts generally , but broken down by grade , i.e .
mr president , could i thank the honourable members in all parts of the house for the constructive contributions they have made in the course of this debate .
perhaps i could risk some superficiality , because of the time , by trying to answer the specific questions raised .
but to do that comprehensively will require amendments to the staff regulations and i am looking forward to the cooperation of parliament and the council in gaining the changes in community legislation which are necessary to facilitate that further development .
i can only say that i welcome the opportunity to provide comprehensive information .
having such rules would obviously be the best means of ensuring transparency , consistency and practical guidance which would be in the interests of all parties , especially when , as members have reminded us in the course of the debate , member states and institutions are increasingly keen to encourage more exchange between national and eu administrations and between the public and private sectors .
naturally , when i have a proposal to make for new and improved arrangements , i will put them to my colleagues in the commission and subsequently report them to this house and the other institutions for consideration .
so in legal , procedural and employment policy terms , the use of the panel system for promotion and appointment purposes was not required by the existing law in the case of appointments of that kind .
of the 25 very senior appointments that have been made by this commission since last september , 4 have been of women officials .
i would only say that since that is nearly 20 % of the total number of appointments , we are on target for this year ' s commitment to ensure that we achieve at least a 20 % advance in the number of women who are appointed .
it is significant that the island country , the larger island country , secured in the course of these months under this commission no additional appointments at a1 level by promotion .
the boot-shaped country obtained two such appointments - the boot-shaped country obtained 4 a2 promotions in this period and the big island obtained 5 , of which , to the best of my knowledge , none came from wales .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday 17 may 2000 .
i have to say that this attitude has also been adopted by the various political groups .
mr president , i would like to stress that , by approving the council ' s common position on electronic commerce tomorrow , this house will be showing a very great degree of political responsibility of great institutional significance .
furthermore , by approving this directive , parliament will be taking a decisive step in favour of the competitiveness of european businesses in the ' on line ' economy and will be setting a milestone so that both consumers and companies will be able to operate in the internal market with the same guarantees and the same ease with which they operate in their domestic markets .
the directive ensures that companies and citizens are able to provide and receive information society services throughout the european union , which will thereby become a genuinely border-free area .
european companies will be able to offer goods , services and information within the union in accordance with the regulations of the member state in which they are established and , therefore , in normalised circumstances , without being bound by 14 different sets of legislation .
mr president , the directive includes - and this is important - all information society services , both business to business and business to user services , such as those which allow electronic operations to take place - interactive telesales of goods and services , on-line ' shops ' , for example ; services which are offered free , such as those financed through advertising or sponsorship , the on-line press , on-line databases , on-line financial services , on-line professional services - lawyers , doctors or other professionals - leisure services such as video on demand , direct marketing and all services accessed via the internet .
the common position , therefore , maintains the balance between the various general objectives and the various interests , and we have not therefore tabled any amendments .
lastly , the development of new technologies and market-related innovations make it essential that we establish a legal framework for the development of commerce , while , as this directive ensures , areas are set aside which are suitable for self-regulation and for the development of specific codes of conduct .
lastly , several member states are already legislating in this area and , without this directive , we could see a genuine fragmentation of the internal market .
the legal framework established by this directive will facilitate the adoption of other community directives , such as the one on copyright , the distance marketing of financial services or the controversial brussels convention on jurisdiction , and will clearly help to remove the risk of incompatibility between these initiatives and the principles of the internal market .
parliament intends to monitor closely the transposition and application of the directive in national legislations , and i have therefore included two recommendations , two reminders to the commission , which i hope will be approved tomorrow , not within the framework of the directive , but within the framework of the legislative resolution ; one on the procedures for the detection and withdrawal of illicit material , and another on the drafting of codes of conduct .
lastly , mr president - and with this i will end - it is symbolic that parliament is approving this directive on the eve of the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the declaration by robert schuman , in which he stated that europe would not be created in an instant but through achieving specific objectives which would create genuine solidarity between citizens and businesses .
fifty years ago , ' specific objectives ' referred to the european coal and steel community ; today , as this directive points out , they refer to the information society .
mr president , commissioner , first let me thank the rapporteur , on behalf also of my political group , for this report and for the strategy she proposes , namely to accept this common position as it stands .
we have to aspire to the establishment of the highest quality of e-businesses in europe .
e-commerce is in its early stages .
i have some sympathy with commissioner bolkestein here today .
we are dealing with the creation of a new medium and therefore one which creates an urgent and acute need for regulation and for common regulation on a grand scale .
in these circumstances we should welcome the chance to bring in an effective regulation on e-commerce .
we have a system that is going to be operated by the users and the point i want to make this evening in now thinking ahead , because we are confident we are going to get this directive through , is to say to the commission that we need to have a very comprehensive and a very fast feedback from the users about the problems and issues that they are encountering in using this directive .
we want to know where consumers have had problems and feel that their rights are not protected .
i say to both of them , and in particular to representatives of the council here , we have risen to that challenge and we now expect member governments to behave with the same speed to get this legislation transposed .
we encourage the commission and the council to get the remaining bits of that legislation to us as quickly as possible because that is what europe needs .
commission , parliament and council have had ample time to discuss and debate at both first and second reading and , as the rapporteur said , most of parliament ' s views now feature in the council common position .
this therefore means we need to create a clear and simple , predictable and consistent legal framework for electronic commerce .
concerns still exist but i believe that council , commission and parliament have struck the right balance between the need to protect public policy and consumers and at the same time promote and support the growth of e-business .
we have in this directive an article which allows us to do that .
article 21 of the common position provides for a review and we should use the time until then to deepen and further our knowledge on this critical sector of the european economy .
mr president , commissioner , e-commerce offers the european union a unique chance to stimulate economic growth , strengthen the industry ' s competitiveness and create new jobs .
the legal framework of the internal market plays a crucial role in this .
the country of origin principle is one of the internal market ' s cornerstones .
i would like a reply to this question .
some of the concerns that have been expressed here tonight , particularly about dealing with illegal content and consumer acceptance , need to be being already pursued by the commission before we adopt this fully as a european directive .
the european economic and social model , which is based on the social market economy , is quite capable of dealing with world-wide competition , provided that it succeeds in evolving , eliminating all the unnecessary rigid constraints which are responsible for its continuing weakness in some areas .
this potential for growth is our challenge for the future !
however , we are not alone in the world ; e-commerce means competition , not only for companies but also for politicians .
the development of information technology provides new opportunities to communicate and to disseminate information simply and cheaply .
at european level , the creation of the european single market and the introduction of the euro are certainly decisive factors in the promotion of electronic business .
however , it also creates a new situation , to which industry and national legislators will have to adjust .
as has been mentioned this evening , e-commerce and online business are developing very rapidly and it is very important that we put in place a legislative framework in europe within which it can develop and flourish .
professor maccormick said that there seems to be a very great deal of agreement about the need to go forward without amending this proposal .
on this occasion i do not believe we are wrong to approach this matter in that way and i hope this parliament will agree with me with a big majority .
i therefore believe it is fundamental that we bear in mind that the bulk of this success stems from the creation of new companies , the creation of small- and medium-sized enterprises .
therefore , in the review which is carried out , it is essential that we remember not only the consumers - who in any event must make their own decisions and must use mechanisms for encrypting and protecting their data in accordance with laws and with technology - but also the smes , because otherwise there will soon be little electronic commerce in europe .
it therefore seems essential to make a genuine effort to homogenise the rules of the internal market and , at the same time , work energetically to unify the principles applied on a global level with regard to electronic commerce .
mr president , commissioner , mrs palacio vallelersundi , ladies and gentlemen , i say ' yes ' to the directive and ' yes ' to the rapporteur ' s strategy , for it is thanks to that consistent approach that i too have withdrawn my amendment .
the electronic market is a prime market in terms of growth , employment and future prospects , and not just in europe .
let me pick up on two points of detail that are very close to my heart and where i would have liked to see the common position worded more clearly .
as far as i am concerned , the question of e-commerce in medicines and the protection of cultural diversity will be an important issue in the review scheduled in three years ' time , which i welcome .
the directive in hand is immensely important as regards the competitiveness of the eu .
wisdom is not always a characteristic of politicians , be they in the commission , the council , or in this chamber .
parliament ' s approach to this directive and the effect parliament has had on bringing about the common position could well serve as a model for future cooperation between the institutions .
i would like to thank those members of this house who , in turn , have thanked the commission for the work it has done .
i probably do not need to stress the urgency with which clear and flexible legislation is needed for e-commerce within the european union .
many in this house , especially the rapporteur , mrs palacio , have emphasised this aspect for the benefit of small- and medium-sized businesses .
it will also have a favourable effect on the european industry ' s competitive position within the global market and this aspect too has been stressed by a number of members in this house .
furthermore , the directive strikes a very precise balance between all private and public interests involved .
parliament has not tabled any amendments and has thus paved the way for a swift approval .
parliament tabled a number of amendments at first reading which proved to make a positive contribution to the common position and which elucidated and reinforced the commission ' s original proposal .
those amendments have been incorporated in the commission ' s amended proposal and subsequently in the common position .
it should also be stressed that parliament ' s rapid approval of this directive without any further amendments was made possible thanks to the excellent cooperation between the rapporteur , the finnish presidency and the european commission .
the commission will be setting up a website with this goal in mind , thus enabling interactive exchange with all parties , with the intention of taking these remarks on board when this directive is up for review in three years ' time .
needless to say , this point is very closely linked to the provisions of the e-commerce directive which we are debating this evening , provisions which concern the liability of service providers .
the risk is there .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m .
food aid consignments should gradually be replaced by measures to improve food security in these countries .
i welcome the restrictions in the new convention , for our long-term aim must be to abolish the credit system completely .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mrs schierhuber , you have already mentioned the resolution on ethiopia .
these rules are now also incorporated in this international food aid agreement .
i am particularly pleased to read in the new convention that least-developed countries and low-income countries will be given priority when food aid is being allocated .
i am also pleased to see stronger provisions for promoting local agricultural development and local purchases as this also assists local economies and encourages local agriculture .
the institutional treaty-based arrangements for food aid are , in my view , still somewhat outdated and created with a world in mind where food aid was assumed to be a major feature of development and of humanitarian assistance and relief .
this will mean , and many of us said this in seattle in the debates , that we would require inter alia a food security clause in any future wto agreements on agriculture .
the fiori amendment is preoccupied with europe ' s own interests and is therefore wide of the mark .
one euro a day is enough for survival and offers a chance for the future .
mr president , i am , of course , in favour of food aid for starving people , despite the commercial operations that are hidden behind this aid and despite the conflicts of interest which divide rich countries on this issue .
work it out for yourself : european aid comes to around 7 kilos of wheat equivalent per person per year , which is less than twenty grammes per day , and the report is cynical enough to stress the fact that food aid must not discourage local production .
it would require an end to capital ' s dictatorship of europe as well as of africa , and the only reason why i have voted in favour of this report is in order not to stand in the way of this aid .
the endeavours of our predecessors in the community institutions succeeded in reducing the total number of undernourished people by over 20 % in the space of 30 years .
we must therefore congratulate ourselves on the fact that this issue is still on the agenda of the european parliament and the countries of the european union .
the purpose of the new 1999 food aid convention is to contribute to creating food security in the world and to enhance the international community ' s ability to respond more effectively to acute food crises and the food requirements of the developing countries .
my seventh point is that the new food aid convention is intended to improve the monitoring of the effectiveness and impact of food aid transactions and cooperation between food aid donors , recipients and others concerned .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
aid to uprooted people in asia and latin america the next item is the debate on the report ( a5-0065 / 2000 ) by mr deva , on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation , on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation ( ec ) extending regulation ( ec ) no 443 / 97 on operations to aid uprooted people in asian and latin american developing countries [ com ( 1999 ) 443 - c5-0146 / 1999 - 1999 / 0194 ( cod ) ] mr president , i am indeed privileged today to present this report to parliament .
all are waiting with bated breadth to hear my speech .
the extension we propose is for one year until 31 december 2000 .
the extension of the regulation will enable a further eur 40 million to be spent until the end of this year .
this regulation came to an end on 31 december 1999 .
by extending this regulation today for a further period of one year , we are also giving the commission time to prepare a new regulation which i hope will be a multiannual one to replace the existing regulation .
this new regulation , to be brought in at a later date , should build on , and take into account , the existing regulation as well the annual report and the evaluation which the commission has undertaken to present to parliament and council in the very near future , and no later than september .
the european parliament ' s original report on the current regulation , the howitt report , was exemplary in how it was constructed by parliament .
it had considerable success in improving the existing draft and thus played an important part in supporting and improving the text which was finally adopted .
notably , the parliament contributed to a strengthening of the regulation in its reference to environmental concerns , complementary support and cooperation and assisting local host populations , a strong approach for targeting support programmes towards women refugees , particularly those who have been the victims of rape , and a clear provision for the upholding of the " non-refoulement " principle , i.e .
mr howitt engaged then in a very positive dialogue with the irish presidency as well as with the commission in order to improve on the existing draft .
therefore the parliament played a major role in producing this regulation with its report .
support to uprooted people , refugees , returnees and internally displaced people in latin america and asian developing countries has been a feature of the community budget since 1984 .
the unhcr estimates that there are 4.8 million in asia and some 88 000 in latin america .
of these , the current regulation and the one year extension that our report today is calling for , will continue to help 2.9 million afghani refugees of whom about 40 % are in pakistan and iran and the 60 % balance in afghanistan itself .
a total of eur 24.3 million was given to afghani refugees with a further eur 960 000 to thailand , eur 6 million to sri lanka , eur 11.8 million to burma and eur 1.8 million to nepal .
we are now presented with a solution by this parliament , by our institutions in europe , where we want to and can help people where the problem is .
mr president , may i begin by stating how bizarre it is that we are debating the extension of a regulation tonight in may 2000 that already expired last december and which , under the commission ' s proposal , would again expire in seven months ' time .
as the rapporteur for this parliament on the original resolution four years ago , i cannot but comment that this represents a failure of political commitment in europe to aiding five million refugees , some of the poorest of the poor , in asia and in latin america .
nevertheless we are here now , and the socialist group supports the rapporteur ' s recommendation for adoption of this regulation with the minimum of amendments , already agreed in principle with the council , in order to allow a fast-track , one-reading approval of the extension , and in reality to allow refugee support projects this year to go ahead rather than be cancelled .
it is no good us debating conflict resolution in the parliament and then finding that the sole support to assist people when the guns are put down or when the period of immediate humanitarian assistance is at an end is then forgotten altogether .
for example in afghanistan , which has today broken all world records for refugees with six million people having left the country since 1992 , leaving the single largest and longest staying refugee population in the world .
the sort of forced displacement that we have seen in colombia i have seen too in chiapas in southern mexico where the presence of international aid workers is essential for the protection of human rights .
commissioner , of the eur 240 million , 40 % has been allocated to latin america which has less than 1 % of refugees in the world , while 60 % has been granted to asia which has 40 % of the displaced persons .
the most important prerequisite to a long-term solution for the problems outlined is sound coordination of member state efforts .
it is essential that annual reports are submitted by the commission to this parliament and to the council , as is specified .
the financial framework needs to be introduced in keeping with provisions already agreed to .
these provisions must be strictly adhered to and this change is absolutely necessary .
without this amendment , the commission could get away with not having submitted a single evaluation report since the regulation came into force in 1997 .
it is common to all the speakers in the chamber and to others outside that it is an excellent report but , speaking for myself , i would not have expected any less from my honourable friend .
it supports projects implemented by international organisations like the un and the unhcr and ngos and these measures are designed to improve living conditions , not only for returnees but also for the communities into which they will integrate .
the final evaluation report will be submitted to the parliament by september of this year .
however , concerning the first amendment i would like to stress again that the draft of the activity report has already been made available to the committee on development and cooperation and that official submission will take place next june at the latest .
the commission agrees with amendments two and three since they reflect the existing framework of interinstitutional cooperation with regard to budgetary discipline and comitology .
we believe however , that given the late contracting of the 1999 programme , which means that some activities are only now getting under way , it would be better to finalise the report , which must be a thorough and comprehensive document , a month or two later , say by september .
however , as you know , the evaluation is already under way and i will make any interim reports available as soon as they are produced .
i hope that parliament would be willing to agree this approach .
there have been references to the new regulation .
too often , in my experience of just seven months , we undertake to do things without having first made sure that we have got the resources to carry them through and it is important for us to be honest about what we want to do and how we can achieve it .
i can assure honourable members that i have taken account of the criticisms and of the aspirations that have been expressed during the course of this debate .
i am old enough and experienced enough in political life to recognise the difference between a standing ovation and a raspberry , or a bronx cheer as the americans would call it , and i do not wish to sit through another debate about a subject as important as this and hear it dominated by well-meant criticisms .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 11a.m .
on the free movement of persons ( 9748 / 1999 - c5 0197 / 2000 1999 / 0103 ( avc ) ) ; 2 .
on air transport ( 9749 / 1999 - c5 0198 / 2000 - 1999 / 0104 ( avc ) ) ; 3 .
on the carriage of goods and passengers by rail and road ( 9750 / 1999 - c5 0199 / 2000 - 1999 / 0105 ( avc ) ) ; 4 .
on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the european atomic energy community , of the one part , and the swiss confederation , of the other part ( 9751 / 1999 - c5 0200 / 2000 - 1999 / 0106 ( avc ) ) ; 5 .
on certain aspects relating to public procurement ( 9752 / 1999 - c5 0201 / 2000 - 1999 / 0107 ( avc ) ) ; 6 .
on trade in agricultural products ( 9753 / 1999 - c5 0202 / 2000 - 1999 / 0108 ( avc ) ) ; 7 .
as you are aware , this project was blocked by the swiss referendum in december 1992 , when , albeit by a very narrow majority , the swiss citizens decided to block the entry of the swiss confederation into the european community .
however , i would also like to point out to the house that the citizens of switzerland will , once again , be called upon to pronounce judgement on this package of agreements , and , therefore , also on relations with the european union , in the referendum on 21 may next .
however , i feel it is highly significant that parliament is voting on and approving the texts - if that is the decision of the house , as it was the largely unanimous decision of the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy and as it is the desire of all the parliamentary committees which have expressed their opinion - and giving its assent before the swiss referendum on 21 may .
in my opinion , it is politically significant - and , for this , all thanks go to the chairman of the committee on industry and the staff which have made it possible - that parliament is going to vote before 21 may , for this will present the swiss citizens with a sure , well-defined legal framework on which to pronounce judgement .
in this connection , i would just mention , for example , the right of entry , the right of establishment , the opportunity to enter the labour market , the coordination of social security systems , the right of establishment for non-gainfully employed people and students , together with new opportunities for cross-border workers .
we view these agreements , especially the agreement concerning the free movement of persons , as being very important in the context of cooperation between the eu and switzerland .
mr president , i too want to thank the rapporteur for his report and congratulate him .
the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism as a whole is pleased about this agreement because it was well known how very difficult it was to reach a transport agreement which established a fair balance between competition and the environment and which would also produce a satisfactory solution for both sides .
here we must note , with regard to air transport , that switzerland is , of course , already a member of numerous international conferences and organisations and has therefore incorporated in its legislation quite a few aspects of what we in the eu regard as the acquis communautaire .
the transport committee regards it as a small weakness that the duty-free agreement is not applicable to switzerland in this case .
eventually it will replace this system with a road tax , of approximately eur 200 on average .
but what the transport committee considered even more important was that this agreement points the way to a transport policy entirely in line with that of the eu : reducing the burden on the roads while supporting transport by rail .
mr president , the social democrats group and i myself most emphatically welcome this agreement between the european community , on the one hand , and the swiss confederation , on the other .
the conclusion of the bilateral negotiations with switzerland will put the union ' s relations with switzerland on a new footing , and we all hope that , in a few weeks ' time , the swiss people will give their assent to these agreements .
unfortunately , european union governments have paid too little attention to this issue until now .
i hope all this will change in the near future .
first there was the council of europe at strasbourg , which divided in two when france , germany , italy and the benelux countries formed the european coal and steel community .
the first agreement on the european economic area was offered to the efta countries .
so the only countries remaining in the eea were iceland , norway and liechtenstein .
negotiations are now under way regarding the future accession of twelve countries to the european union .
it is strange that neither switzerland nor any of the eea countries are among them , although they would be the best suited of all to join .
but perhaps these seven agreements are a preparation for that debate and i very much hope that just as parliament will be approving these seven agreements by a large majority tomorrow - or so i assume - the swiss people will also approve them by a large majority on 21 may in order to make it clear that switzerland is part of europe .
that is something the european parliament could organise .
parliament could take the initiative and invite parliamentarians from these countries , so that we can know in advance what input the swiss can contribute , what problems they may have , what proposals they may have .
mr president , the attendance in this chamber shows that there is no dispute about this agreement , that members want it , and i am sure we will vote for switzerland and for this agreement by a great majority tomorrow .
after over 50 years of a policy of peace , the german foreign minister acting as president of the council has called on the military to take a decision .
the decision with regard to austria was taken without any de facto participation by the commission , without the participation of the council and , of course , without the participation of parliament .
in fact , austria was always seen as the blue-eyed boy in matters of human rights and democracy .
but it has been a useful debate which has reflected the importance of the subject .
we are extremely satisfied that parliament has given this verbal approval to the seven agreements with switzerland .
the outcome of those negotiations has been excellent and i am delighted that parliament has reacted in the way that it has .
they unblock the stalemate in the relations with one of our closest neighbours and our second biggest trading partner .
i am glad that parliament has found the result of the negotiations to be in general so positive but we have also taken note of some more critical remarks , especially regarding cooperation in the fight against transit fraud , cigarette smuggling and other fiscal crimes , where you want to see our swiss friends doing much more .
the commission has repeatedly stated that we see a rapid solution to this problem as the prerequisite for any further agreements in other areas .
i want to assure all honourable members that we have taken account of the detailed concerns that have been expressed in this useful debate and of the other comments that we have received on these negotiations .
it would be constitutionally indelicate i am sure for me to urge them to vote in one way or the other but i do very much hope that these negotiations which have been conducted in good faith and have led to very satisfactory outcomes will be endorsed by the people of switzerland .
i am sure that the assent of the european parliament will be very helpful in this respect in encouraging people in switzerland to vote on may 21 in what we all think would be the right way .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 11a.m .
a civil war and the repercussions of the economic crisis in russia have been paralysing the country for a long time now .
the commission deserves praise for having proposed a considerable increase in financial aid to moldova at the suggestion of the world bank and the international monetary fund .
for example , moldova relies totally on russian imports of energy , and is consequently tied by a leash to russian energy companies .
the eu must do all it can to make it clear to the duma that withdrawing russian troops from moldova would enhance the country ' s stability .
that is a maximum annual figure of eur 200 million from the guarantee fund .
this causes problems for possible new loans from the european union , because this ceiling is inflexible .
the aim should be that parliament and the council agree on priorities concerning the use of left-over margins , and that a procedure should be agreed in order to make any changes to these principles .
in the case of macro-financial aid , the commission appears to have considerable faith in the ability of the international institutions - the imf and the world bank - to evaluate the economic situation in whatever countries are concerned .
the role of these institutions is perhaps too important , and the commission often automatically accepts conditions imposed by others on these loans .
the russian energy company gazprom suspended gas supplies because moldova could not pay its bills in german marks and us dollars .
the russian crisis on 17 august 1998 had an enormous effect on moldova .
our group supports the rapporteur ' s views .
as has been said here several times , the situation in moldova is extremely difficult .
these achievements , however , cannot begin to conceal moldova ' s extremely difficult transformation process from ex-soviet republic to democratic constitutional state based on a social market economy .
also , amendment no 1 tabled by the competent committee seems to clash with the objective of this specific long-term loan .
the european union is prepared to invest eur 15 million , equivalent to sek 120 million , in a long-term loan .
the desire is for this to be given to europe ' s poorest country , which has a gross national product as low as that of the poorest countries in africa .
according to the swedish professor , per ronnas , moldova has seen a more devastating peacetime fall in its standard of living than any other country in modern times .
it is true that today , we are talking about macro-financial assistance , therefore , with clearly defined objectives , which will undoubtedly improve the financial room for manoeuvre so that we can tackle the other difficulties such as those which you have raised during tonight ' s debate .
of the amendments presented in the report , the commission has no difficulty in accepting amendments nos 1 to 4 referring to the final objective of the aid , the need for a coherent approach in our various instruments for community assistance and the need for social balance in that assistance .
therefore , the commission will support these amendments in the council and i hope they can be taken forward .
amendments nos 5 , 6 and 8 advocate the establishment of a new committee to control this type of aid .
the creation of specific ad hoc committees would achieve less and would not be as effective as the current model .
the commission ' s concern , as i see it , that it should be provided with figures for the budgetary debate should not cause any difficulty , since every six months , a report is sent to the budgetary authority on the guarantees covered by the general budget along with an annual report on the management of the guarantee fund .
that concludes the debate .
i shall add that we should try , in our plenary sitting , to preserve the consensus which emerged in committee when voting on this report , in order to ensure that the european parliament thereby gives a strong political message as to its commitment in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy .
mr president , i am sure that we are all aware that piracy and counterfeiting constitute a very serious problem .
it may be premature for the european parliament to enunciate its position on certain points , the precise content of which will emerge from the debate which is now beginning , but in some cases , it may be appropriate to establish this content .
it is this : there are those who would say that this debate embraces the debate about copyright and trademarks .
mr president , this report is extremely late in coming , given that the commission ' s green paper was adopted on 15 october 1998 .
after all , piracy is commonly thought to be a trivial offence : people might think of calvin klein t-shirts or rayban sunglasses that one can buy for next to nothing on some far-flung beach , or they might think of cds that one can easily get hold of on the quiet .
they are two different things .
mr president , dismayed as i am at the prejudice displayed towards austria by 14 member states , but also at the stance adopted by the president of the european parliament as regards this matter , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report and endorse the majority of her findings .
this tends to emphasise the need to harmonise more than is appropriate or necessary in the circumstances .
what is more , criminal organisations seem to be becoming increasingly involved in the trade in counterfeit products and those obtained through piracy , and this is causing the business community to lose confidence in the single market , leading , in turn , to a decline in investment .
the economic and social committee , which also has a role to play here of course , produced a positive opinion on the green paper in february 1999 and various proposals from the green paper were incorporated in this opinion .
afterwards , and in the light of our experiences , let us see to what extent it is necessary to uphold and strengthen these measures .
the debate is closed .
the european union established the high representative for bosnia-herzegovina and the un set up an interim administration in kosovo - that now coordinate and manage all civilian activities and all the work done out there .
the 2000 budget has made a total of eur 28 million available for these projects in bosnia-herzegovina , and has made eur 12.5 million available for unmik , which is the un transitional administration in kosovo .
it is to be welcomed that we are to transfer this part of the interim civilian administration within the scope of the union ' s foreign policy to the first pillar , thereby involving parliament more extensively in the common foreign and security policy .
as a parliament , we will have the opportunity in future to put funds in this political field in reserve and to influence and play a part in the enforcement of particular measures .
if we were to go along with this , then we would forfeit all hope of being able , firstly , to emphasise the special significance of the civil aspect and , secondly , to communitarise the common foreign and security policy in the long term , in the context of the interplay between civil and military crisis management , because we would then be committing ourselves to going in an entirely different direction , as is very much the trend in many national capitals these days .
the proposal under discussion today is intended to provide a legal basis at community level to cover the financing of the united nations ' interim mission in kosovo and of the office of the high representative in bosnia-herzegovina .
we are talking very large amounts : eur 28 million for the office of the high representative , 53 % of which is actually to be funded by the european union , and eur 12 million to be funded by unmik ( united nations interim administration mission in kosovo ) .
mr president , this specific proposal concerns support for those bodies which the international community must unfortunately establish now and again , either to take care of interim civilian administration in regions affected by conflict or to implement peace agreements .
we are already involved in two cases , through the high representative for bosnia-herzegovina and through the eu ' s participation in the un ' s transitional administration in kosovo .
the major part of the eu ' s operations in kosovo , for example , will , of course , be concerned with actual reconstruction , but the eu must , naturally , also assume responsibility for those bodies which are required if there is to be a return to a society with a functioning civilian administration , able , in the long run , to become a democratic society cooperating closely with both the eu and the other balkan countries .
we therefore demand a rethink , firstly of the legal basis for the aid provided by the union and , secondly , of the way in which we are actually to use those resources which have traditionally been allocated within the sphere of foreign policy but which belong , rather , under the first pillar and category 4 .
if the commission ' s proposal and the council ' s wishes are to be complied with and a new budget item created , and if this is , moreover , to be provided with additional net financing , it will be necessary to consult parliament and carry out a proper budget procedure .
i think that the sum of 27 million we are talking about here emphasises the need to review the budget .
i believe that most people judging the issue , possibly with the exception of the council , would consider it impossible to use this aid in its entirety within the framework of the budget ' s current category 4 .
against this background , we support the laschet report .
the intention is to transfer these appropriations from the common foreign and security policy in the second pillar to the first pillar , to be financed from the commission ' s budget .
category 4 is already overloaded .
kosovo is a ravaged country .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i do not intend to use up all the time between now and the votes at 11 a.m .
that is what the debate on whether it should be established in the first or third pillars is all about .
the commission will also endeavour to fulfil the new task with existing personnel .
the commission is of the opinion that the financial and procedural regulations emanating from the high representative ' s office were improved during the course of 1999 .
as soon as the supplementary budget , which i am hoping the commission will approve on 10 may - i will present it in any case - has been adopted , it will be possible to rearrange the financing in the desired manner .
the debate is closed .
carraro recommendation ( a5-0118 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the eu-swiss confederation agreements not only because i feel that it is extremely important for switzerland , which will undoubtedly become part of the european union in what we hope will be the near future , to have agreements established with the member states of the union , but also because , when i think of switzerland , i feel a sense of relief .
following these requests , negotiations between switzerland and the european union resulted in a package of sectoral agreements .
this is all the more important since a referendum on the agreement on the free movement of persons is due to be held in switzerland on 21 may .
schierhuber report ( a5-0105 / 2000 ) madam president , the pensioners ' party voted in favour of the schierhuber report on the convention on european community food aid to the world .
laschet report ( a5-0111 / 2000 ) madam president , this report is chiefly concerned with providing the current situation in kosovo with the semblance of a legal basis and pseudo-democratic backing .
hatzidakis report ( a5-0076 / 2000 ) madam president , the pensioners ' party , which is part of the group of the european people ' s party , and i , myself , as its representative , voted for the hatzidakis report on the granting of community financial assistance in the field of trans-european networks , mainly because communications within our union are the single most important factor in the creation of europe and the most important issue where the principle of subsidiarity is applied in practice .
fourtou report ( a5-0096 / 2000 ) - ( nl ) protecting intellectual property rights is an important issue and so i applaud mrs fourtou for her report .
the harm suffered by the luxury goods industry is just the visible tip of the iceberg , probably also the least dangerous part .
according to the international chamber of commerce , the cost of counterfeiting represents between 5 and 7 % of world trade .
i do not share the opinion expressed in amendment no 8 , since i think that confiscating illegally copied goods , even if it is only a simple compact disc , may well serve as an example and be of instructional value , particularly with regard to young people , who must learn that copying is damaging to the artist whose works they like .
this consumer must be protected , so much is clear .
we thought it useful to adopt , in the form of amendments , other conclusions which were not adopted by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , particularly regarding the need for fast , effective civil law protection for intellectual property rights , and the need for realistic , appropriate and effective legislation on patents .
there was an explosion in a fireworks warehouse which has already caused at least sixteen deaths and has injured over six hundred people , six of whom are in a critical condition , with many more people reported missing .
i have contacted the dutch authorities to express our deepest sympathy , both in a personal capacity and on behalf of the european parliament .
i find this an example of european solidarity which is what we stand for in this parliament .
on behalf of the 31 delegates , i would also like to thank the commission which immediately expressed sympathy in the form of a letter from mr prodi to the municipality of enschede .
i also notified the spanish government of our utmost support in the fight against terrorism .
a request from the gue / ngl , the greens and the tdi to add a new sub-item entitled " tunisia " ; one from the ppe group to add an item on " spectator safety and the prevention of hooliganism at the forthcoming european football championship " ; and an item from the union for a europe of nations group to add a new sub-item entitled the " situation of bhutan refugees in nepal " .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the association agreement between the european union and tunisia has been in force since 1 march 1998 .
our group is therefore asking everyone to stop listening to the leaders of the two main parties , and instead to act like independently-minded adults and resolve at long last to have a debate on the situation in tunisia .
it would have been a good thing if , in the past , when the socialist group proposed an urgent debate on the situation in tunisia , we could have counted on the votes of those people who are protesting today , because we have not managed to have that urgency approved .
however , i would like to remind you - i was the first speaker at the last brussels part-session and i asked you , madam president , on behalf of all of us , to write to president ben ali of tunisia - that what we have to do now is wait for the president of tunisia to reply to you in your capacity as leader of this parliament .
i believe that if mr cohn-bendit , for example , wishes for a full debate on this question , he should support our proposal so that we can include it in the next agenda .
thank you , mr baron crespo .
a number of problems have already been raised by people such as the belgian police federation , and there have been many documentaries in various countries about various games and the security arrangements for euro 2000 .
however , that does mean that we have a problem in the short term , namely what we will be doing this coming friday .
thank you , mrs van der laan .
thank you , mr blak .
ladies and gentlemen , as you are well aware , we are not going to start a debate on this sensitive issue .
according to mrs van der laan , it is not the intention that we now pass judgement on an action regarding the use of the rules of procedure .
the first possibility is to scrap friday sittings altogether .
clearly , this last possibility will lead to situations in which other members can request that the quorum be checked , meaning that we will once again be unable to hold votes this coming friday .
thank you , mrs ahern , we shall take steps to ensure that this does not happen again .
madam president , i should like to respond to what my fellow member has just said .
there are members in the chamber who attend from monday to friday , and remain until the end of the sitting on friday .
the dutch group which made fridays a subject for discussion in this way did not do this because they are against strasbourg or anything like that .
this has also given rise to quite a major debate in my own country , sweden .
no , mrs van der laan , you ought to know that according to the rules of procedure , this is a request that should have been presented in due form and at the due time , and this was not the case .
it only remains for me to express the hope that there will be a good attendance this friday , votes or not .
it is in this spirit of optimism that we can begin this debate on our report on the prices for agricultural products in 2000 / 2001 .
in the past , this report was always the subject of fierce debates on farm incomes .
the commission is proposing to further reduce the additional charges on the intervention prices for cereals in two stages and then to fix them .
if we start to discuss the budget for 2001 in structural terms in september or october of this year , then it is essential to know what the commission has in mind for the sugar sector .
the proposals on setting institutional prices and monthly increments cover the products already mentioned .
in our group ' s view , the reduction in the monthly increments for cereals cannot be supported , not least because the commission ' s proposal undermines the berlin decisions on agenda 2000 .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , there is no longer much point in discussing the package of agricultural prices since the 1992 cap stipulated the gradual transition from a production price support system to a direct aid system , increasingly required to be dissociated from the production volumes .
and as agenda 2000 adopted and extended this approach , the establishment of agricultural prices is henceforth multiannual .
the same applies to moisture content in cereals .
the berlin agreement must continue to be our benchmark .
this is the principled position that the european union adopted in seattle with regard to its trading partners and competitors within the world trade organisation .
in particular , the european union must fulfil its commitments in order to enable european farmers to have a clear idea of the policy as it affects them , in order to be able to manage their farms as wisely as possible .
in this connection , then , i would urge the commission to provide us very quickly with its proposed reform of the com in sugar .
all these points which i mentioned are also backed by the liberal group .
if i am not mistaken , the agricultural budget only comprises one item of approximately eur 100 million for the control of animal diseases .
in anticipation of the budgetary discussions in september , we would like the commission to provide us with the necessary data so that we can take this into consideration in the discussions of the budgets for the year 2001 .
up until 2006 the commission should work on the basis of the realistic targets set and should deduce its financial needs from them .
to achieve its objectives , the commission should , in my view , be invited to present a report showing how costs have changed in the agricultural sector .
further developments will show whether the reform of the eu ' s agricultural policy by means of agenda 2000 is capable of achieving its overall aims or not .
mr president , notwithstanding the fact that agenda 2000 has set the parameters governing agriculture for the period up to 2006 , the annual price package is still very important .
to farmers the price received in the marketplace should represent the real value of their professional endeavours , rather than what they often perceive as social support for the products of their labour .
in this context the support for agriculture - it is substantial and i acknowledge that because it represents almost 50 % of the entire budget - must be seen also as a subsidy to consumers .
in recent weeks we have heard much talk about a review of the agricultural budget which was agreed in berlin only a few months ago .
i would also like to congratulate the commission on having included a multiannual element in the proposals .
nevertheless , although this is a little repetitive , i would like you to bear in mind and reconsider , with regard to cereals , both moisture content and the monthly price reviews , since they are issues which could cause us considerable harm .
there is also another question , and i feel that harsh words are required : every time a problem arises in this european union or in its political positions - positions which i do not question - we consider taking funds away from the agricultural budget .
with regard to table grapes , on 31 july aid expires for the production of juice , which is included in the com in wine .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , agenda 2000 has created a certain kind of stability for the european agricultural policy .
it is necessary for this parliament to make decisions on a new and ongoing agricultural policy after 2006 .
the question therefore is : what are the farmers doing about this ?
a blatant example is that of oil , which also concerns my country , and in particular my native island of lesbos .
the same applies to cotton where , although the minimum price is eur 101 per 100 kilos , greek producers will be paid less than eur 65 because of the co-responsibility levy .
i therefore think that this policy calls for caution , commissioner .
the impression they get is that we intend to make the farming sector increasingly less productive in economic terms .
there is one particular situation that i would like to highlight , which concerns the issue of fruit and vegetables and which is of particular importance to my country .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i should like to thank you , mrs jeggle , very much for your report .
unfortunately , i also have a problem with including mustard seed in the support system , as you propose in amendments nos 1 and 3 , because that would be contrary to the marrakech agreement .
this is a much more complex problem because here the commission had originally intended to make it possible precisely to transfer funds between the two sub-headings .
at the moment , however , we are , of course , still in the discussion phase ; the actual budget debate on the 2001 budget is yet to take place .
the rejection does not primarily or exclusively concern this issue of the 300 million ; the proposals as a whole were given a negative reception by ecofin .
mrs redondo asked a number of questions about the organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables , about nuts and about ornamental plants , and mr cunha asked about processed tomatoes .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
all the same , in my opinion , the commission proposals overshoot the mark a little .
the committee on agriculture and rural development adopted this report by a large majority .
mr president , according to mrs schierhuber ' s present report , if something goes wrong with a certain regulation in europe , in this case flax , it is quite possible to ensure that that regulation can remain intact by means of new proposals .
mr president , we agree with the objectives pursued in the commission ' s proposal on the new regulation on flax and hemp : to regulate and balance the markets , simplify the common agricultural policy and prevent fraud .
the inclusion of flax and hemp within the general regulations on herbaceous plants requires the establishment of a single yield for all areas of the european union .
with regard to aid for processing , we feel that it is completely inappropriate that there should be transitional aid for the processing of short-fibre flax , as the commission proposes , which would end in 2006 .
we believe that it should be long-term aid and that it should be brought into line with the aid for the processing of long-fibre flax , which is the only way of guaranteeing the commercial production of short-fibre flax in an industrial sector which provides a genuine alternative to synthetic products .
commissioner , we are in complete agreement on the need for stabilisers with regard to this crop , but we completely disagree with the national guaranteed quantities established in the commission ' s proposal , since we feel that they are absolutely inadequate and represent quite the opposite of the actual situation in each of the countries .
we are therefore voting against the report with regard to the disappearance of these contracts .
in an unstable agricultural industry , the opportunities offered by flax and hemp in a developing market for natural fibres should not be lost .
in my own nation , wales , flax processing plants are already being established using european union aid .
for example , 80 % of the land mass of my nation , wales , is non-arable .
the importance of flax production being subsidised in such areas of the european union cannot be overemphasised .
i would like to thank the rapporteur for accepting our amendments in this regard .
i congratulate the rapporteur and call on the european parliament to support the agriculture committee 's report .
the elimination of aid for short-fibre flax would hinder the innovative non-food use of agricultural products , fundamentally affecting regions with low rainfall and more difficult conditions .
the production costs for long-fibre flax are higher than those for short-fibre flax and for hemp .
but the cereal support level is too low for long-fibre flax and therefore acts as a disincentive to producers to grow this flax variant .
firstly , the commission is explaining the need for the reform in terms of an increase in budgetary cost .
the commission proposal offers a good , coherent and precise analysis of the sector in the european union .
it explains the importance of flax and hemp production from both an economic and an ecological point of view .
however , it seems to me that the commission ' s considerations with regard to hemp fibre and short-fibre flax are not very realistic , either as regards its future viability or its range of uses .
if we were to follow that route , the european union , which already falls short in terms of using this type of fibre , would cease to use it altogether , at least in some countries .
with regard to payment for processing , i cannot agree with the commission ' s proposal , either in terms of the distinction between short- and long-fibre flax or its proposals for hemp .
it has been suggested that the land eligibility rules should be disregarded for flax and hemp so that any land could be used for those crops , but without an increase in the base area .
this would allow expansion , should market conditions encourage growth , and allow new growers to enter the market .
encouraging initiatives have been taken in this field and large investments have been made in various countries .
the only problem is that if you cut the flax premium to the level of the cereals premium and the set-aside premium , then no more flax or hemp will be cultivated in the eu and that will be that .
mr fischler , i am curious to hear whether you are going to accept the proposals made by the rapporteur - and i should like to thank her for her report .
if you say that you cannot accept them , we will react tomorrow and then we will have to negotiate this sound proposal from the committee on agriculture and rural development at another level .
the commission proposes that aid for hemp should be reduced in three phases to the level of aid that has been set for cereals .
i now turn to the first proposal on including flax and hemp grown for fibre in the arable crops regulation .
the same goes for amendment no 37 which is along the same lines .
i can accept amendment no 6 on hemp .
however , irregular plots cannot simply stop being subject to checks altogether , as is recommended , at least implicitly , in amendments nos 5 and 16 and i cannot therefore agree to these amendments .
however , at the present time , i do not wish to agree to amendments nos 11 , 13 and 32 .
i now come to the second proposal , on the regulation on the common organisation of the market in flax and hemp grown for fibre .
that is why i cannot agree to amendments nos 18 and 34 , even though they definitely contain further food for thought .
i do agree , however , with the ideas underlying amendments nos 23 , 25 and 26 , that is to bring the aid payable for long and short fibres more closely into line and to make the granting of aid dependent on the result of checks .
i can accept amendments nos 24 and 33 for those instances when the farmer and the primary processor are one and the same person .
however , i cannot agree to amendments nos 22 and 31 in their current form because they implicitly say that no further controls need to be carried out .
turning , in conclusion , to the timetable , i am also prepared to accept amendments nos 17 and 36 , in accordance with which the new rules would only enter into force on 1 july 2001 .
commissioner , you mentioned the controls which will need to be carried out in connection with the processing premium , and these must indeed take place .
that is why i should like to ask you this specific question , commissioner : can you envisage - and i am referring here to amendments nos 27 and 28 and to my previous comments - that the commission might , after all , consider rethinking its proposal on quotas and restructuring it ?
in this regard , i have said that we are prepared to accept a quota of this kind .
thank you very much , commissioner fischler .
the debate is closed .
this week we are able , for the first time , to adopt a european union legislative act which has been drawn up on the initiative of the european parliament and on which , thank god , the commission and the council have cooperated positively .
it is about improved protection for accident victims in the european union .
obviously , we cannot in any way change either the law which has to be applied or the legal jurisdiction , but by now proposing a system whereby each insurer has a claims representative in every other country , we will probably be able , as far as the accident victim is concerned , satisfactorily to settle the claims arising from 90 % of all traffic accidents which take place in another country .
nevertheless , although i will vote for the motion , i have to say that i am very perplexed by the response i have received from the commission to my question on an issue which is not completely related to the question of accidents which take place abroad but which nevertheless concerns the insurance sector , a sector in which , as far as i am concerned , in italy , truly unimaginable events occur , which leads me to suspect that parliament ' s inspection system is , indeed , defunct .
although it is true that in certain areas a decidedly larger number of accidents is recorded , it is also true that , when people belong to the same state and the same community , events are shared by citizens who live in the same district , the same area , the same country and the same community .
with regard to the payment of premiums , absolutely incredible , unbelievable things happen : in a town such as alexandria , for example , premiums are less than half the level of those in a town such as naples or catania .
in this regard , i would like to repeat the question i tabled , to which the commission replied that the european parliament has no competence in this sector .
the commission has perhaps been constructive in the formulation of this fourth motor insurance directive .
the new directive will provide for improved information , easier procedures and quicker settlement of claims , and these are things which concern the citizens of all our member states most directly .
as i have just said , the commission 's proposal was a response to a parliamentary resolution in which parliament made use of its new powers under article 192 of the treaty on european union .
lastly , mr bigliardo draws attention to the fact that the premia for motor vehicle insurance in italy vary from region to region , according to the number of accidents .
you cannot ask french or german citizens living in italy to pay a different premium from italian citizens .
thank you very much , commissioner bolkestein .
the debate is closed .
it was important because south africa is one of the countries which receives the most funding from the european union for its development process .
it was urgent because the regulation which forms the basis of this cooperation and which has been in force for five years expired on 31 december 1999 , from which date the different procedures in operation were left without a proper legal basis .
in fact , in the first six months of 1999 , our parliament considered the first text proposed by the commission , adopting six amendments and forwarding them to the council for their consideration .
the council wanted the committee of experts to control all cooperation projects relating to south africa with a budget of over eur 3 million .
having considered all the main issues , the amendment we are presenting today finally raises the council ' s proposal from 3 to 5 million , and this committee , whose members represent the various member states , will therefore have fewer projects to deal with and will therefore be able to concentrate more on a global view of such an important field of action .
the second proposal concerns the budgetary framework for development cooperation between the european union and south africa for the 7-year period , including 2000 , which is referred to in the regulation under discussion .
during the previous five years the budgetary framework had been eur 125 million per year .
finally , the proposal approved by the committee on development and cooperation , on whose behalf i am speaking , was extremely reasonable : the eur 123.5 million already allocated for 2000 and the eur 127 million for each of the subsequent six years , amounting to a budgetary framework of eur 885.5 million for the seven years laid down in the regulation .
the aim is to avoid a third reading , put an end to the current intolerable legal vacuum and provide significant political impetus to our development cooperation with south africa .
we also hope that these proposals are acceptable to the commission , despite the fact that theirs - 25 million for the commitology question and 850.5 million for the budgetary framework - are somewhat different to the ones that we are presenting .
if we are not understood , it will be entirely down to the council or the commission that we become involved in a third reading , with the consequences which the lack of a proper legal basis may have on the projects in operation in our development cooperation with south africa .
the figure for the budgetary framework suggested by the commission , which is very close to our own proposal , should in any event have arrived at the committee on development and cooperation on time , so that parliament could have approved it and above all with the certainty that , in the event that we had adopted it , the council would also have accepted it .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the report under discussion here on the union 's development cooperation with south africa , on which i particularly congratulate the rapporteur , is , leaving aside its content , a striking example of the council 's delaying tactics towards the european parliament .
our former fellow-mep , mr fassa , presented the report for its first reading in parliament in may of last year .
the council accepted nearly all of the amendments .
secondly , the threshold of eur 5 million , which has now been settled on , constitutes a good compromise in my view .
the limit of eur 5 million gives sufficient room for manoeuvre .
in making these efforts , the rapporteur has , for his part , done everything within his power to present a proper report on the regulation .
the union continues to attach great importance to stable development in south africa , not only for the sake of the people there , but also because this is in the interests of the development of its neighbours north of the limpopo .
by adopting this regulation , the union is showing that it still backs the economic , political and societal reform process in south africa .
mr president , i also warmly congratulate the rapporteur who has shown enormous commitment to this report .
the regulation for south africa expired on 31 december 1999 .
it is clear , as the rapporteur has suggested , that we need to proceed with some urgency in order to provide a legal base for our essential work in south africa .
this budget line is the work of the european parliament .
i was the budget rapporteur in 1994 when the development committee established the line .
indeed , it is my view that the council has rather cynically orchestrated the eight-month delay in response to the first reading in order that it could better manage its negotiations on the south africa trade and development agreements .
this has put life-saving programmes at risk and any delay now would exacerbate the existing impression in south africa of a european union which seeks only to serve its own interests first .
we risk jeopardising economic developments in the eastern cape and work in the eastern cape with the ministry of education .
we risk jeopardising support for social housing programmes in south africa .
in this parliament we have to make every effort now , as the rapporteur has said , to make it possible for this money to move as speedily and as efficiently as it can to the people of south africa .
the european parliament position is , and always has been , realistic and morally right .
as usual we should make it very clear that we in the development committee regard the budget figure that we have here before us , as purely indicative .
a maximum of 5 million seems very reasonable to me .
the apartheid regime has been abolished , all that is left to tackle now is apartheid itself .
i strongly support his aim of getting this regulation brought into force as quickly as possible with no third reading .
the rapporteur has been very generous in his interpretation of the council 's inexplicable 8-month delay in responding to parliament 's six amendments during the first reading .
to come to the substance of the issue , on the budget it is completely unacceptable that the eu should be offering a budget cut in comparison to former years , particularly at this moment in our relationship with south africa .
perhaps there is an image abroad that south africa is an increasingly developed country and does not really need these funds .
let us not forget either that the commission and council turned down the idea of a separate new financial instrument to give support to neighbouring countries which need to adjust themselves to the new framework resulting from the trade and cooperation agreement .
i am not as reassured on this point as the rapporteur and i would have preferred to see a separate budget line which could have been seen and monitored more easily .
for example , in its agreement to a highly asymmetrical liberalisation agreement with the other sadc countries which will benefit those countries .
mr president , it has taken a year , but we have finally reached the point where we can discuss the regulation on development cooperation with south africa at second reading .
i can imagine that he is intent on keeping the eur 910 million budget for development cooperation with south africa .
this is why south africa ' s neighbouring countries can also benefit from european development projects .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur not only for the work he has put in to produce this report but also for the rather unique way he has had to handle the situation that the development committee and parliament found itself in .
we are doing much for south africa and i hope , in return , president mbeki will work for peace in the region , with particular reference to zimbabwe .
the implication in the rapporteur 's report that this regulation may have been delayed because it was being used as a bargaining chip is very worrying .
in the last session in strasbourg we had another regulation that had also run out last december and this should not happen .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , in recent years south africa has made a historic leap forward by abolishing the apartheid system and establishing a new political order based on the rule of law , respect for human rights and democracy .
if the people of south africa have regained their freedom , this is , of course , for the most part thanks to their persistence and courage , as well as to that of their leaders , but also , it must be said , to the political and financial support provided by european union member states for the reform process in south africa .
quite clearly , the cooperation agreement signed on 10 october 1994 was a strong message that we sent this people treated so badly by history .
with regard to the regional cooperation aspect of this regulation , i should like , in turn , to draw the council and the commission ' s attention to the risks of economic destabilisation which may be engendered by the regulation , and even more so by the trade agreement with south africa .
i feel that the european union must , as a matter of urgency , take steps to arrive at an agreement with the authorities of these countries in order to compensate for any losses .
finally , in conclusion , acknowledging our rapporteur for his clear-sightedness and for his talents as a negotiator , i should like to express my complete agreement with him on the need to remedy the existing legal vacuum to enable these agreements to come into force .
in 1995 , it became our key partner in development cooperation .
in his eminent report , the rapporteur emphatically referred to the expiry date of 31 december 1999 .
the european parliament cannot possibly support cutting development aid to south africa by ten per cent .
it can show that it is freedom , together with democratic and strong ethical and moral values , through which africa can advance furthest . - ( pt ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , parliament is due to state its position at second reading on the regulation that forms the legal base for the general framework of cooperation between the european union and south africa .
following a few incredibly intricate episodes , successive adjournments and time-wasting manoeuvres by the south african negotiators in accepting a regulatory text for this agreement , both parties finally agreed that a new draft of the regulations for this agreement on wines , which is due to enter into force by 1 september , is to be laid down by the end of june .
in view of these issues , i cannot agree with the rapporteur when he asks parliament , as proof of good faith , to approve this framework regulation as a matter of urgency , without linking it to the trade aspect of the general agreement on trade , development and cooperation .
but in the south africa case , we are ready to accept the eur 5m threshold simply in order not to delay a decision .
the eur 5m level gives us enough room to proceed quickly with some small projects , for instance preparatory actions or pilot operations .
regarding amendment no 2 , article 10 ( 1 ) on the financial framework : the commission has been aware on the one hand of the need to respect the political commitment in the trade and development cooperation agreement to maintain assistance to south africa but , on the other hand , we have to take into account the very difficult budgetary situation caused by the new commitments made for assistance in the balkans .
but we envisage stabilisation for south africa at the average level of around eur 122m per annum , with a global figure of some eur 850.5m in the period 2000-2006 .
this situation is indeed very critical and not a normal , routine situation - but unfortunately it is what we are facing - and i feel an obligation to do my utmost to secure agreement between the council , parliament and the commission on the proposed approach .
i am therefore anxious both to discuss the matter again with the committee on development and cooperation in parliament and before that to seek a response from the member states .
this is the safest way to reduce the risk of a much more serious and longer delay threatening the credibility of our cooperation with south africa .
i must say that this situation disturbs me , because we are all working very quickly and the commission seems to be saying that , since we are in a hurry , we must drive the car very slowly .
firstly , i must thank the spokespeople of the different groups for their support , although i believe that they are lending their support to a very modest position by the committee , almost a critical type of support , because the committee on development and cooperation should have gone much further than it decided .
i repeat : in principle , i would not be opposed , but i do not believe that parliament is in favour of delaying the vote .
that would mean inviting the commissioner to the committee on development next week and postponing our decision until june .
the commissioner can speak for himself but the commission was not requesting postponement of the vote .
it is simply in order to minimise that risk that i am expressing my views as i have here .
decision on urgent procedure mr president , the committee on industry considers that this is an extremely important issue and should be dealt with as a matter of great urgency .
i therefore propose producing a simplified report so that we can vote on urgent procedure .
mr wynn , chairman of the committee on budgets , asked for an opinion , has the floor .
it has done so in the past and will do so in the future .
on this occasion there is no urgency for this to go through now .
thank you mr wynn .
mr president , we have not discussed it in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , but my personal view is that we should not accept urgency now .
mr president , in my opinion , this proposal has been submitted under rather strange procedural circumstances .
montenegro is in great danger , especially from belgrade , and i think we should send out this signal .
it cannot take it away from kosovo .
mr president , firstly , i am against the urgency for the reasons expounded by the chairman of the committee on budgets .
i therefore propose that we examine the next item on the agenda .
secondly , we must also exercise extreme restraint in the area of staff policy in the coming year .
and we must also solve the problem of promotion in the autumn in a way which is acceptable to all institutions .
my fifth point is that this increased responsibility must also find expression with regard to groups in the european parliament .
we need to be a bit more realistic in our approach to the important question of enlargement .
we moved into a new building in brussels three years ago , we moved into a new building here in strasbourg a year ago and if we tap the taxpayer on the shoulder again so soon after and say we need more buildings , more office space , he is only likely to agree to so much .
a budget with eur 987 million is not very much in comparison to the budget of over eur 90 billion which the commissioner will propose shortly , but this is the taxpayers ' money and we must take our decision as the trustees of that money .
we shall have to discuss this again in september during the first reading of this budget , once all the documents from the budget discharge procedure have been submitted .
i should like today to thank the bureau of the european parliament , especially the vice-president responsible for budgetary questions , gerhard schmid , for their constructive cooperation , especially during the conciliation procedure between the bureau and the committee on budgets .
mr president , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work that he is doing for our house in terms of getting value for money out of our budget .
it is not right that we should be expecting the commission to do a whole range of things in putting their house and their budget in order unless we also take the same kinds of rigorous steps .
the approach which has been taken is absolutely correct , not only in making sure that we do not simply give money away if we have a little spare in the budget , but also where we have asked the secretary-general of parliament to come forward with a number of reports : for example , in paragraph 6 of the resolution where we have asked the secretary-general to look at and identify job needs in the same way as the commission so that we can match job needs to the staff which we have available in the longer term .
that quite clearly is a way of long-term planning which is very sensible at this stage of parliament 's life .
there are three things which i would like to emphasise in particular in this parliament budget 2001 .
it is a matter of frustration for many of us that our staff can access the net with their computers , of course , parliament 's computers , but if we as parliamentarians bring in our own computers , we do not have a place to plug them in and work effectively .
it is important to have a date when this facility will be available to us .
we never saw it as a report on suggesting how the hub and spoke system should work - the relay system for interpretation - nor , indeed , did we really have any thinking about the freelancing possibilities with modern communications where we can dispatch a large amount of our translation material to people who are in the member states , rather than recruiting a whole range of people to come and work in luxembourg as fixed and permanent employees of parliament .
therefore , i strongly support the compromise which has been put forward by our rapporteur asking , by first reading , for the secretary-general to come up with a strategy of how to handle the whole question of languages in parliament and enlargement .
i suspect the commission might wish to do that as well , because it is a problem which rightly , in this amendment , relates to interinstitutional matters .
our main priority has to be to explain to european citizens what we are doing , why we are doing it and how we are doing it .
we must win the confidence of the european taxpayer and we can only do this by improving accountability through simplifying - not mystifying - the work of parliament , by reducing jargon , by improving the process of approving legislation and improving the legislative machinery and by making a clear connection between what we do here and how it benefits the individual .
we are going a long way towards achieving this transparency through the introduction of activity-based budgeting and the proposal we have in this report to put appropriations for political parties in separate budget lines will contribute significantly to achieving this .
we in the socialist group strongly believe that the european parliament should be giving every encouragement to candidate countries in their preparation to joint the eu .
i have the impression that there are those in this house who appear to be frustrating this process of enlargement by placing unnecessary obstacles in the way and often using spurious arguments to limit the preparation for enlargement : for example , the rejection of the proposal to fill the 35 vacant posts in the language reserve between 2001 and 2002 .
i strongly favour planning properly for enlargement because experience has shown that there is a long lead-in time for the training of interpreters and translators .
we need to plan and to be imaginative and to be creative as to how we prepare for enlargement because nothing will be more damaging to the eu if we make a bad job of enlargement .
the average time that it takes for a case to be heard has risen from 17 months in 1988 to 23 months last year .
what we need to do is to have reforms , not just in the areas of staffing and procedures , but we also need to have a new approach in terms of buildings policy .
i am a relatively new member of parliament and while i see a lot of good work going on in the committees , i am acutely aware that as a result of the new responsibilities in the treaty of amsterdam there is a need not just for individual support for members but also scientific support for committees .
the commission 's work programme now incorporates a very large number of codecision procedures and these procedures have significantly increased our workload .
if we are to convince the people of the eu of the importance of the european parliament 's work and persuade them to take it more seriously , we need to improve our systems of working .
i have been disappointed by some aspects of the report 's focus .
rather than reducing the budget we should be looking at how we improve security services , and the question we should be asking is : should we have our own security services or should we be retendering it rather than just reducing the budget ?
already , at this early stage , the intention is to spend this increase on the creation of 33 new posts and , apparently , 12 more will be created as a result of the amendment by the bureau .
for example , we have been asked to pass judgement on the fact that the directorate for committees and delegations must comprise five a posts , two b posts and one c post , and that one a post and two b posts must be added to the directorate-general for personnel .
moreover , generally speaking , the objective is to reduce the budget .
on behalf of the radicals in this house , i must inform you that i shall be voting against mr ferber ' s report .
we are in agreement and we are very happy .
i believe that the rapporteur , in drawing up this draft budget for 2001 , has been rigorous , has made optimum use of resources and has , at the same time , been imaginative and looked to the future .
these three challenges faced by the european parliament should be set in a context of great budgetary rigour and complete transparency in the use of public funds .
i believe - and i agree with him on this - that the rapporteur wants a parliament that treats the meps ' political work , both in strasbourg and in brussels , as well as in their individual political constituencies , as a priority .
six new countries - with at least five new languages - in 2004 means that we will have to make a great effort to adapt .
in order to fill these vacancies , we will need to know the exact order in which the candidate countries will join the union , and that is something that cannot happen now or in this budget .
we must ensure that we can achieve equality in arms with the other legislative authority , namely the council , both in respect of the scientific service and scientific research .
allow me to comment now on the question of enlargement , because that is the only point on which we disagree with mr ferber and , above all , with our colleagues in the ppe group .
as far as preparing for new languages is concerned , if you read the cot report , called for by the honourable member of your group , mr elles , you will see that we shall have an additional 460 language combinations in the future .
according to one estimate , this will mean another 500 translators and interpreters .
mr president , allow me to begin by thanking the rapporteur , mr ferber , for the good work he has done .
a good deal in the report under discussion is based on the assumption that the eu will be enlarged by six new member states in 2004 .
a few days ago , the commission said it was its own objective to be able to welcome ten new member states by the year 2005 .
my only criticism is that amendments nos 4 and 5 should have been tabled in someone else 's name for the ppe group .
parliament demands that the commission and the other institutions are prudent with taxpayers ' money , and we think the same should apply to the european parliament .
i also have a loyalty to my political group which has given me this speaking time .
one only has to look at paragraphs 15 to 18 to see how serious we are about the buildings policy .
the policy of ramassage has been a great success for this parliament .
what we have done with the belliard building may not be ideal but at least it is a step in the right direction , and it is now off our backs .
it seems that we expect everything and , at the same time , we expect nothing at all from the european union ' s priorities , as we can see from the level of budgetary transposition - or lack thereof .
mr president , as other colleagues have said , dealing with amsterdam and preparing for enlargement are major challenges for this institution .
the decision will be taken for us .
as members will notice , the finnish interpreters do a good job speaking english and other languages because we could not recruit finnish-speaking english interpreters .
so i want parliament to rethink the 35 language posts .
the second area where we still have much to do as an institution is informatics .
the new amsterdam situation means that when we pass amendments and resolutions in this chamber we have to be more aware of the legal consequences as well as the political consequences of what we are deciding .
however , to spend one or two per cent more in order to ensure that we remain effective is worth it , and we should look at prudence in the context of the wider demands of this parliament .
above all , however , what is important is that you have paid a great deal of attention in your report to the question of enlargement and staff policy in the translating and interpreting sector and , of course , the question of what measures are taken here is a highly political one .
in this respect , congratulations once again on your report , especially on the fact that the report on the budget 2001 looks beyond the budget 2001 .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
presentation by commission of preliminary draft budget for 2001 the next item is the presentation by the commission of the preliminary draft budget for 2001 .
commission . ( de ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in february , the commission debated the priorities for the european budget for next year and had the opportunity to discuss these priorities in detail with the european parliament both here in plenary and , more importantly , in the committee on budgets and in the various trialogues between the commission , the european parliament and the council which have taken place since .
now to the budget proper : as with every national budget , most of the figures in the european budget for a given year are determined by contracts , by previous decisions in past years and by legal bases in past years .
this is particularly true of agricultural expenditure in the area of the organisation of the markets , the largest item in the budget , including in the budget 2001 , and of the structural funds and multiannual programmes , be they in research , youth measures or foreign policy .
despite the fact that figures are determined by previous years , the budget 2001 also sets clear political priorities and , following discussions over recent months , i think i can say that the priorities in the commission ' s preliminary draft budget tally to a large extent with parliament ' s priorities .
take , for example , the priority under the second pillar of agricultural policy ; the highest rate of increase in the commission ' s preliminary draft budget is for promoting the development of rural areas and i think that this in fact highlights that the commission considers that we need to focus on the second pillar of agricultural policy .
we have already had the opportunity to debate this in great detail , especially assistance in the balkans .
i think that this figure clearly illustrates that the preliminary draft budget is in keeping with the overall policy of budgetary rigour , and that the rate of increase in payments as a whole , without agricultural expenditure , is 3 % .
i stress this because it will certainly play an important part during the debate with the council .
however , we have included a considerable increase in agricultural expenditure in the preliminary draft budget , namely 7.6 % or , in absolute terms , a total of eur 3.12 billion .
this is mainly as a result of the resolutions passed by the heads of state and government at the berlin summit last year and these agreed financial perspectives form part of the interinstitutional agreement concluded last year between the parliament , the council and the commission .
i should point out that this figure for agricultural policy actually makes provision for the draft budget for agricultural policy to remain under the ceiling decided in berlin because the commission proposal includes shifting eur 300 million from the agricultural budget to foreign policy , yet still there is such a high rate of growth for agricultural policy .
i highlight this - we also have extremely intensive debates in the member states on state quotas , which are between 40 and 50 % - in order to illustrate the fact that the european budget accounts for 1.07 % of the total gross national product .
this clearly illustrates that the budget of the european union is worth its weight in gold .
it does not , for example , include expenditure by member states for kfor troops .
i should point out that the proposal for serbia for the year 2001 makes provision for a fixed sum of 40 million .
the commission has proposed that , if the political situation changes in serbia , additional funds will be provided from the flexibility reserve .
you , yourself , said just now that the budget 2001 is only 1 % higher than the budget 2000 without agricultural expenditure and we all know that agricultural expenditure accounts for a huge part of our budget .
it is through category 3 , which encompasses all our priorities - not only category 3 , category 4 also of course - but it is mainly through internal policies that all citizens perceive the european union .
but what about social dialogue and employment - down 4.7 % .
to my mind , the preliminary draft budget , as it now stands , takes no account of parliament ' s priorities .
i have just this to say about category 4 : i think it is asking for trouble to support serbia with such a small amount in 2001 and , at the same time , to say that once serbia has democratised we can again use our flexibility instrument .
thank you , mrs haug .
i know we should not do so , but there is that link between the two which makes me want to comment on both .
the second factor will be parliament 's attitude to redeployment , especially in category iv , not just for 2001 but for the whole of the financial perspective .
the proposal to take eur 2 million per year away from south africa for six years may not seem much .
i would not be happy with that and i am sure other people in other areas of interest in category iv would adopt a similar attitude .
then we have parliament 's attitude towards redeployment in category i .
similarly , we have to consider our approach to the use of the flexibility instrument if it was invoked for serbia , as you suggest .
the third factor , and probably the most important one , is the attitude of the council .
mrs schreyer , you are something of a juggler and an illusionist at the same time , with the proposals that have been made .
you have to keep several balls in the air and , at the same time , because of what is proposed after 2003 , you have to make more appear .
in this specific instance , i move that this report be deemed inadmissible and that we move on to the report which is the next item on the agenda .
such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately . " according to the rules of procedure , one person may speak for and one person against the motion , after which it is put to the vote immediately without further debate .
mrs theato , are you speaking against mr dell 'alba ' s motion ?
secondly , i would be obliged if mr dell 'alba could tell me what he means by saying that i have blocked documents for weeks .
i have therefore taken recourse to rule 181 of the rules of procedure and proposed an amendment to the rules of procedure .
the text which i have proposed is in line with the original proposal of the committee on budgetary control .
i urge you to support this initiative to amend the rules of procedure .
this is why i fail to comprehend why a number of proposed amendments to my report claim that the court ' s judgement has strengthened the position of the european investment bank and the european central bank in their opposition to the regulation .
the european court of justice and the court of auditors have duly implemented the provisions of the olaf regulation in corresponding internal decisions .
three points on the content of my report .
point number 2 concerns the european financial public prosecutor who , in the initial stage , has the right to support the national courts in prosecuting criminal offences committed by officials or employees of the union .
the report also includes a number of points from the white paper on the reform of the commission in connection with olaf .
and yet i have just heard from some quarters that we should postpone a decision on these points and not take a stand on them just yet .
except that the commission wants to implement all the points addressed here before the summer recess .
in our community , there is hardly anything worse than fraud to undermine public confidence in the activities of the union , and so the views of the rapporteur deserve our full support .
it is important that the work being undertaken by the commission should be expanded because , in a situation in which 20 % of irregularity amounts to fraud , the fact of the matter is that by referring to it as fraud and irregularity , european citizens can often be left with an impression that all of the claims are fraudulent ones .
the second point that i want to make is about the commitment of member states to deal with fraud .
they are responsible for administering some 80 % of the eu 's budget and they must recognise that they are , at the very least , partners if not prime movers in attempting to address this important issue , and the report indicates that the performance of member states has been mixed to say the least .
my final point concerns the accession countries .
mr president , commissioner , when deciding here in parliament whether or not to grant discharge to the commission , we check that there is no irregularity in expenditure by the administration .
nevertheless , deeper causes for error rates clearly lie in the different handling systems in the member states .
i would remind you at this point that parliament called for an external chamber for budgetary discipline in its resolution of 19 january .
with an increase in staff , with a new structure and independence , all the conditions are now in place for olaf to concentrate on fighting fraud in an area where the objective and verifiable figures point to a more serious situation .
special report no 9 of the court of auditors on the protection of the european union ' s financial interests in the area of vat on intra-community trade points to an even more serious situation .
according to the court of auditors , the gap between actual receipts and their theoretical amount is eur 70 thousand million .
unlike the main areas of expenditure , which the commission monitors and on which it imposes a system of sanctions , there is nothing comparable in these two vital areas of the community ' s own resources .
despite the fact that there is widespread agreement on the need to overcome the problems of fighting fraud which result from restrictions imposed by national legislation , or to the lack of a legal basis in community legislation , the commission ' s proposals have not , until today , met with any response and the anti-fraud sub-committee in the area of indirect taxation has found it impossible , in the words of the commission " to achieve meaningful progress and cannot take the necessary decisions to improve the fight against fraud " .
what is more serious than this is the fact that the commission ' s reports on vat collection have been scandalously disregarded by the other institutions and have not been followed up to any degree by the member states .
compliance with article 280 of the treaty , specifically where it requires the effective and equivalent protection of the community ' s financial interests will be dead letter unless we overcome the situation of there being a loophole in the law in the area of traditional own resources and vat .
everyone has a right to a defence , including those who need to be investigated by olaf .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i wish to emphasise the point i raised to the effect that , out of the 19 recitals and the 30 paragraphs of the bosch report , there were only 11 recitals and 6 paragraphs to do with the subjects that mr bosch was supposed to be discussing .
important matters , i do not deny , but matters which have already been dealt with in the van hulten report and the theato report , or matters which will be dealt with when we come to discuss the white paper , the reform and olaf , with the judgement and the ruling of the court of first instance .
probably in your own country too , and these were not exactly models of democracy .
i think this report is a waste of a lot of paper .
mr president , mr bosch has prepared a good report on protection against fraud .
with reference to 1998 , i believe that we should recognise that , after having intensified the task of control , which should be initiated by parliament and which olaf carries out , the number of cases of fraud and irregularities has stabilised .
without relaxing our efforts to control expenditure - of which we have shown signs in the past - we can see that this stabilisation has been the result of an increase in control .
however , i think it is very important that , in this first stage - precisely because we are interested in control - we do not increase olaf ' s scope of activity so soon after it has begun its work .
it is essential that we allow olaf to continue to pursue its scope of activity little by little and that we expand its role at a later date .
as usual - and as has already been mentioned - the annual report shows that in 1998 too , an excessive proportion of the european resources was not spent according to the rules .
mr president , my last point concerns the european parliament itself .
as you know , the court recently decided in an initial ruling that olaf only has limited access to the european parliament .
ladies and gentlemen , this report is an excellent illustration of what should be done and what should not be done .
in fact , the proposal to create a european public prosecutor ' s department is unacceptable since this requires us to be effective immediately .
in the same spirit , we shall support amendment no 13 from the group of the party of european socialists , which will prevent us creating a budgetary discipline body just for show .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , a few days ago , the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung published a survey which showed that an overwhelming majority of my fellow countrymen were in favour of a more common approach to judicial matters .
other surveys in the past have always confirmed that this applies both to germans and to the citizens in most other member states of the union .
we are therefore responding to the expectations of the people in tabling proposals on how to strengthen effectively the protection of the european union against fraud .
allow me to congratulate you on this report .
i am delighted that both the commission and parliament have included this question in the intergovernmental conference .
the committee on budgetary control has gone one step further in this report .
mrs theato , you know perfectly well what i am talking about .
i contend , together with the group chairmen , who have , moreover , disclaimed you , that on the 13 april you informed the conference of presidents that on the whole you were in agreement with the spirit of annex iii on the exchange of information with the commission .
one group chairman even left the room on an occasion when the matter came up on the agenda one day .
we must address the lack of moral responsibility on the part of bureaucracies , which was condemned in such a masterly way by kafka .
the creation of an effective and transparent office to fight fraud is a task with which all members of this parliament agree , and i hope that all the institutions agree .
the socialist group , which is interested in combating fraud as well as protecting the rights of citizens , including officials , and the construction of a europe based on the principles of fair play , democracy , proximity to the citizens , transparency , efficiency and solidarity , has presented an amendment to paragraph 29 of this report , which lays down the principle that combating fraud should not take precedence over the basic rights of officials .
i would like to remind you that claims have been made that no action has been taken against this type of action and that olaf ' s monitoring committee , in relation to these appeals , is aware that certain aspects are not functioning properly within this body .
while accepting that , with the dynamic of european construction , the increase in the budget and the growth of the administration , there may be more fraud and errors , we must not fall into a kind of policing paranoia , or at least this parliament must not .
there are a number of paragraphs i have doubts about - 14 , 15 and 16 for example , regarding the legal basis and whether it is necessary to involve both national and european responsibility to resolve problems of fraud that affect national states more than they do the european union .
i have run out of time without saying what i wanted to say but i wanted to respond to some of the points already made .
even though there was a slight decline in fraud and irregularities between 1997 and 1998 , there is nonetheless still a need for more effective supervisory mechanisms .
if such a body were to be established , this would mean that disciplinary matters would be taken away from the commission .
at present , officials who have had actions brought against them by the disciplinary council have colleagues of theirs sitting in judgement over them .
both the echo and med cases are all too well-known examples of this state of affairs .
i cannot , however , vote in favour of setting up a european public prosecutor ' s office .
it is , for all that , only the most serious cases which will have penal consequences .
we need changes to staff regulations and to the disciplinary procedure , as also proposed in the report .
mr blak , allow me to apologise officially .
you are quite right , you had three minutes .
at the same time , however , both the court of auditors and the council of ministers grant this refusal to issue a declaration of assurance the status of a mere water-level report , while we here in parliament and the media see it as an indication of the poor state of the union ' s finances .
one thing that is certain to create a stir in terms of the eu is big stories about fraud .
let us not forget that 80 % of the fraud takes place within member states .
finally , i want to read out a list of shame - member states which have not yet ratified the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the eu : belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , italy , spain , portugal , greece , ireland and france .
they have had five years to do it .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the fight against fraud and protecting the financial interests of the community are among the top priorities of the new commission .
the fight against fraud includes activities such as preventing , uncovering and prosecuting customs and subsidy fraud or tax evasion , as well , of course , as uncovering and prosecuting irregularities within the institutions of the european union .
although uclaf only had 120 employees at the time , this annual report illustrates the considerable success of their work , in my view .
there were 5,318 cases of suspicion of irregularity or fraud investigated by uclaf in 1998 , in cooperation with the member states , and around 20 % of these cases were classed as fraud following the investigation .
the commission explained in its statements on parliament ' s demands in connection with the 1998 discharge procedure that it did not think that the right way forward was to call in a chamber of the court of auditors or the court of justice to issue orders in disciplinary proceedings against employees on the grounds of irregularities in connection with the budget , because the european treaties had granted each of these bodies its own specific remit .
it explained this in its white paper tabled on 1 march and will also make detailed proposals on reforming disciplinary law in the paper on the overall future disciplinary procedure to be published by the commission in october .
it was rightly pointed out in numerous debates and in the report that good cooperation and the involvement of the member states are essential if the fight against fraud to the detriment of the financial interests of the european community is to be efficient .
the commission welcomes the fact that some enlargement countries are already taking steps to set up and activate structures similar to those set up by the european anti-fraud office .
the member states have indicated that they will not amend the treaty in this area .
i should like to comment briefly on the complaints filed by the commission against the european central bank and the european investment bank .
the aim is to implement precisely what was introduced into the olaf regulation by the european parliament , namely that olaf is responsible for fighting fraud in all the institutions of the european community .
we shall have the opportunity of debating other reports on the subject of fighting fraud this year .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon . ( the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m .
however , i regret to have to inform you that the commission cannot agree to amendment no 2 .
mr graefe zu baringdorf , indeed , i checked the situation : it was only this morning that we received the request for split voting , which was therefore not within the time limits set by our own rules .
mrs schierhuber , let us be clear on this .
we must prevent this and parliament and the commission must join in the discussion to find a compromise . ( parliament decided to refer the first part of the report to committee ) - following the vote on legislative proposal no 2 and adoption of the commission proposal as amended madam president , exactly the same applies to this second decision as what you said for the first decision .
two proposed amendments in this second file are of fundamental importance to the committee on agriculture , namely amendments nos 28 and 29 .
madam president , my colleague mr fischler made a statement on this yesterday .
the objective of this directive is to ensure that the injured party has a right of action against the insurer of the person who caused the accident .
this directive which streamlines the issue of civil liability in respect of accidents involving motor vehicles is a logical extension to directives which have been put in place over the last 13 years to complete the european single market .
the directive will apply to accidents involving nationals of a member state of the union on union territory or in any third country operating the green card system .
the conciliation committee has also agreed to enable member states to retain and implement more favourable arrangements in respect of the victim than the provisions required so as to ensure compliance with this directive .
this legislation governing the issue of civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and accidents in europe will ensure that the rights of the 370 million consumers in europe will be enhanced in the case of accidents taking place within any of the territories of the european union . - i welcome my socialist colleague , willi rothley 's recommendation on protecting motorists abroad .
the proposal extends current eu directives on the handling of motor insurance claims to cover cases where a person visiting another member state is the victim of an accident caused by a resident of that country .
every insurance company will , therefore , need to appoint a representative in each member state .
under the compromise , the directive will apply to such accidents in a certain number of countries outside the european union .
thousands of british holidaymakers travel by car or hire cars every year in france , spain , portugal and many other countries in europe .
surely we owe all of our citizens the right to ensure that things are made as easy as possible for those involved in car accidents abroad and for their families .
madam president , the situation in south africa is difficult - and it is by no means an easy country to run .
that is why i regret that the council proposes only eur 787.5 million for south africa , which is effectively a 10 % cut on the amounts we agreed five years ago .
in terms of the european budget it is not something we would struggle to find .
i would urge that we be generous to south africa , that the council finds this eur 98 million , does not go to conciliation but accepts parliament 's amendments and gets on with implementing this new regulation with south africa .
thank you , mr martin .
the most scandalous aspect of what they are daring to call an agreement on " development cooperation with south africa " is that this cooperation is subject to the trade agreement with south africa and that the council is using it as a means of blackmail in order to foist its own terms on pretoria .
such cynicism borders on candour : the european union grants aid to south africa on condition that it is able thereby to make a commercial profit .
thank you , mrs cauquil .
i welcome our action to support farmers , but i feel that we need to change direction , in some cases completely and in others only in part .
the income of people working in farming has fallen by a total of nearly 10 % in real terms since 1996 .
a reduction in the monthly increments would further exacerbate the economic situation of farmers . - ( sv ) a transformation of agricultural policy is a prerequisite for enlargement of the european union .
we swedish social democrats ( pierre schori , anneli hulthen , jan andersson , maj britt theorin , goran farm and eva hedkvist-petersen ) therefore believe that the eu ' s agricultural subsidies should be considerably reduced and we welcome the commission ' s proposal for a progressive reduction in the monthly increases in the intervention price of cereal .
it is problematic , however , that there is not the courage to engage in a full and candid discussion of how our agricultural sector is , in the longer term , to cope under quite different conditions and with a quite different aid scheme than that which is in place at present .
schierhuber report ( a5-0124 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted against this measure on the european policy on flax and hemp .
this is because i feel that we should change the way we support and provide aid to agricultural products in the european union .
basically , we must start to change the way we provide aid to agriculture in europe .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i voted in favour of mrs schierhuber ' s report .
the 50 tonne per annum limitation would exclude many member states from cultivation in advance .
the aim must be to develop a flexible system which also takes account of regional sales potential , thereby allowing all member states to cultivate on an equal footing . . ( sv ) we swedish social democrats ( pierre schori , anneli hulthen , jan andersson , maj britt theorin , goran farm and ewa hedkvist petersen ) believe that the eu ' s agricultural aid ought to be considerably reduced and we are therefore also opposed to aid for hemp production .
bosch report ( a5-0116 / 2000 ) mr president , i have taken the floor for the last time to declare , once again , that it was with no reservations that i voted against the bosch report on the 1998 report on the fight against fraud .
the same report states that these eur 1 019 million which have disappeared as a result of fraud are only the tip of the iceberg .
it is absolutely essential that we change the way we spend our money .
madam president , you have just congratulated the rapporteur on his work .
even though there was a slight decline in fraud and irregularities between 1997 and 1998 , there is still a great need for more effective supervisory mechanisms .
parliament has already proposed , in the van hulten report , that an external court should be established under the aegis of the court of auditors , part of whose task would be to deal with disciplinary matters and which would help recover money which had been paid out wrongly .
if such a body were to be established , this would mean that disciplinary procedures would be taken away from the commission .
at present , officials who have had actions brought against them by the disciplinary council have colleagues of theirs sitting in judgement over them .
both the echo and med cases are all too well-known examples of this state of affairs .
it is , for all that , only the most serious cases which will have penal consequences .
mr president , our discussion today on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies , transmissible diseases which include bse or scrapie , is one of the many follow-up reports or one of the follow-up discussions to the final bse report and i think that it is also of great interest to the visitors in the gallery .
we have a report here before us which the commission promised together with its final report on the 1997 bse report at parliament ' s request .
we have drafted a report on it , although not as quickly as we would otherwise have done , due to the break last year .
in other words , we have been able to keep the bse team going well .
we must ensure that the european parliament can act in the codecision procedure as the real guarantor of consumer and health protection in the european union .
what we also need , and we have tried to achieve this in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy and in the committee on agriculture and rural development , is to strengthen the member states ' obligation to inform the commission and to give the commission information and data on incidents in their countries , on bse problems or on suspicious circumstances .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the committee on agriculture and rural development also welcomes in principle the commission proposal , which is in line with the promise made by the commission to parliament .
however , i will not conceal the fact , commissioner , that the problem of third countries in general will continue to remain an issue for us , as will the question of including pharmaceuticals and cosmetics .
consequently , these tests , which produce results within a relatively short period of time , will most certainly help us to take immediate and appropriate action .
safety must be a priority and we all understand that if we are to have equal precautions throughout the member states , we need a variety of measures in place which have not so far been instituted .
commissioner byrne is to be congratulated on moving that closer .
these proposals take us a good deal further down the line in the field of diagnostic testing , in a more sceptical attitude to animals which ought to have been under suspicion but in some member states were not , and in terms of the general prospect of fallen stock being tested for the possibility of bse .
i want to say something , however , coming from the member state which first suffered the full rigours of bse and which has also , as a result of that , been in the vanguard of cleaning up this problem .
we have now had for a considerable period of time in the united kingdom an over-30-month cull of all animals which have been taken out of the food chain .
from our position , given the measures we take , we do not see any reason at all why we would need to introduce , additionally , whole-herd slaughter of the kind done in some other countries .
i should be very glad to hear whether the commissioner feels he can accept that in some circumstances - particularly in view of the over-30-month cull in the united kingdom - for those countries which are admittedly very high risk but also with a very high level of precaution now in place a certain number of derogations are necessary and would be satisfactory to him .
the bse crisis is an example of such a phenomenon .
if the commission really wanted to protect public health from spongiform encephalopathies , it would have proposed rules to prevent such risks a long time ago , but it did not .
that is the direction in which things are heading with the classification of countries , which , rather than taking into account the most basic factor , which is the existence or non-existence of cases of encephalopathy in their raised cattle , takes account of other factors when allocating countries to a particular category .
the worst thing about this is that , theoretically , if a member state in which cases of encephalopathy have been reported can prove that it has established systems for monitoring production , it could be placed in the same category as a country in which no cases have ever been reported .
mr president , i welcome the opportunity of making a brief contribution to this debate and i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work .
parliament has certainly devoted considerable time on behalf of its citizens to addressing the important agenda of food safety , while at the same time ensuring that our farmers can operate within a production framework of traceability which is the only way to fully restore consumer confidence in the wide range of quality food products produced by european farmers .
i would urge commissioner byrne to prioritise introduction of that level of consistency which is the only way that we can convince our consumers that we have a common policy in relation to ensuring public health .
i welcome the availability of rapid diagnostic testing for improved detection of tses in cattle and believe , commissioner , that further consideration should be given to its use as a means of establishing the health status of animals in member states .
for my country , ireland , food exports and in particular beef are of paramount importance to our economy and the income of farmers .
may i say in conclusion that farmers have always responded in a positive way to the introduction of regulations governing public health and the health status of animals raised for food production .
their task as guarantors of food security and quality is , as everyone in this house knows , becoming increasingly difficult .
mr president , mrs roth-behrendt , mr boge , commissioner , we have before us a proposal for a regulation on the prevention of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies , which is to say degeneration of the brain in bovine animals , sheep , primates , antelope , cats and even humans , since there have been 53 cases of atypical creutzfeldt-jakob in great britain , all fatal .
so i think it would be useful for the more recent members , in the end , if i gave a sort of debriefing on the subject , quite apart from the problems with the legal basis under article 100 a or bse monitoring problems .
the starting point for this business was the 1984 milk quotas .
secondly , the precautionary principle means safeguarding nations .
the action taken in 1997 is now proving even more inadequate as scientists are today talking about a third transmission route .
the development of common guidelines should allow firmer , more balanced and , therefore , more effective responses .
for example , we consider that setting up mandatory disposal consortia according to the model already laid down by the legislation of some member states could be a practical response to the need to limit the economic impact of disposal operations on breeders and , at the same time , thanks to the increase in the degree of social control over the proper use of the service , to the need to consolidate consumer and environmental guarantees .
it is therefore essential that the withdrawal period relating to the transfer of animals from one farm to another be increased from two years to six years .
for example , the scientific steering committee has recently established that it is necessary to regard the vertebral column and dorsal root ganglion as specified risk material in the uk only for bovines over 30 months and in portugal only for those over 6 months .
that is why some of us seek an amendment no 56 to allow adjustments in this area on the advice of the scientific steering committee rather than requiring fresh legislation to implement them .
similarly , certain measures in combating tses have already proved effective .
i refer to the exclusion of animals over 30 months from the food chain , the slaughter and disposal of suspects and offspring of bse cases , a fully effective feed ban and the removal of a wide range of specified risk materials .
in these circumstances , the precautionary principle must be adopted to the full .
no public health policy should ignore these factors .
they are , however , discussed only on rare occasions and in little detail by the european institutions , including parliament .
you might therefore expect me to be enthusiastic about these new controls on bse , but i am not .
of course , i have no objections to other countries adopting measures which match ours .
in fact , it would be helpful if measures already in place in the uk were implemented throughout the eu and elsewhere .
thus it is not new laws we need - we need more compliance .
the british bse inquiry which was commissioned by the uk government at a cost of  20 million is due to report in november .
this regulation is not a major revolution , but it does attempt nonetheless to afford a higher level of protection , based , moreover , on the most stringent practices adopted in specific european union countries , such as in france .
i think it essential in this case to define suspect animals quite apart from the age criterion .
the age criterion ceases to be justified as soon as we are practically assured that this third transmission route does in fact exist .
we know that this is not the practice in great britain , and that this is a solution which is vigorously opposed by our fellow members from the united kingdom .
once again , in france , a number of measures have been implemented , which have been more or less understood , but i am convinced that it is essential to be extremely vigilant and to apply the precautionary principle .
allow me therefore to say a few words on some of the points raised .
nonetheless , i must ensure that this level of safety also applies to italy , germany and all the other countries in the european union .
for some time parliament , the commission and member states have sought the introduction of common eu-wide rules to deal with the problems of tses such as bse in cattle and scrapie in sheep .
the basis of this proposal is that the discovery of any tse or the first incidence of bse in a member state would be covered by common rules which would take effect automatically .
these rules will form a blueprint that can be followed in the event of any new scientific information being made available or if more radical action is required .
this view was made plain in council working groups and was reflected in the final draft presidency proposal , a draft that is supported by the vast majority of member states .
for the purpose of agreement and the speedy implementation of this regulation and hopefully to avoid a lengthy conciliation process , the use of common oie criteria would be appropriate .
however , this proposal may have negative consequences for countries trading in sheep and this is an important point as it currently stands .
i would reiterate in conclusion my support for the use of oie provisions to have an internationally recognised basis for classification , a basis supported by 150 countries in resolving world trade disputes and recognised by the wto .
the uk would be in class 4 , ireland would be in class 3 under either classification system , the ssc or the oie .
the oie meets next week in paris to consider amendments to their classification system and consequently i hope to bring further amendments to this regulation for second reading .
mr president , legislation which seeks to protect the public from a terrible brain disease such as new variant cjd should be drafted to complement measures already in place in member states , to recognise the stage of the epidemic that we are at and have due regard to the body of scientific knowledge we have built up .
the united kingdom already has comprehensive and effective measures in place to protect human health and eradicate bse in our herd .
incidentally - and mrs grossetete referred to this - there has been recent press speculation about a third possible infection route through grass contaminated by faecal material .
amendment no 26 seeks universally to impose the whole-herd slaughter policy which some member states with low levels of incidence have introduced in an attempt to reassure the public .
the majority of herds that have experienced bse in the uk have had only one or two isolated cases .
most herds in britain are not closed herds and therefore animals come in from all over the place .
whole-herd slaughter is not an effective way of reducing cases of bse .
i hope parliament , in amending this directive , will do so in the light of sound scientific advice , not as a knee-jerk reaction to tabloid newspaper scare stories .
it is my pleasure to give the floor to a member of parliament who received the title of great chief of rangatira , when he led our delegation to new zealand .
i think both of them not only take credit for themselves but indeed bring credit to this parliament for the way in which they have carried out that duty .
we have to try to find ways by which we can control the disease of bse and tse and at the same time create the consumer confidence that is needed because consumer confidence has been lost .
everybody has problems in the european union of one type or the other and no-one should try to make or take advantage of the other 's problem .
however , whatever we do , we should not overburden the producer because he has already been considerably overburdened .
once we get to the stage where we have a vaccine or some way of identifying or testing if an animal has bse , then there is an argument for testing the rest of the herd and if there is a trigger level whereby it goes beyond that , then the whole herd should be taken out .
but it would be wilful carnage to simply go in and slaughter good animals in the thought or the notion that bse may possibly be in the whole herd .
one other point : where i come from , in recent years there has been a continuing downward trend .
that is an important thing to recognise because in my area farmers feel very secure because of the very low instances we have of bse and because of the strict controls that we have monitored and made sure worked over recent years .
that is perhaps why our situation is much better than the rest of the united kingdom .
mr president , i would like to join in the congratulations to the rapporteur on her excellent report .
i wish to begin by thanking you for the excellent cooperation between your assistants and my services .
due to this thorough preparation i am in a position today to agree in full or in part to almost three-quarters of your proposed amendments .
furthermore , most of the amendments , which i am not in a position to accept , relate to two issues : the so-called " whereas " clauses - that is the recitals - and whether or not changes to certain provisions of the regulation should be by commitology or codecision .
i can think of no other individuals who have made such a positive contribution to tackling bse .
i might also add that this piece of legislation is an excellent example of the good work and cooperation which has taken place between our two institutions and could provide a precedent for the future .
with regard to the recitals , i also accept amendments nos 3 , 4 and 5 .
however , i cannot accept amendments nos 1 and 2 because it is inappropriate to introduce recitals in a piece of legislation which are not matched by substantive provisions in the text .
with regard to the articles themselves , firstly , the scope : i accept amendments nos 7 and 8 .
with regard to definitions : i can partly accept amendments no 9 to article 13 on the definition of tse suspected animals .
the commission will , however , be monitoring the situation closely both through the recently agreed measures on random testing for bse and in the forthcoming proposal on animal waste .
however , i accept amendment no 52 .
i also accept amendments nos 10 and 49 to article 3 , with a slight reformulation to create the possibility of delegating the evaluation , not the approval , of tests to an external body .
with regard to classification , bse status : i accept amendments nos 13 , 14 , 51 and 58 .
with regard to epidemiological surveillance : i accept amendment no 15 to article 7 , introducing the mandatory use of the rapid diagnostic tests in the annual monitoring programme .
on specified risk material : unfortunately i cannot accept amendments nos 16 , 17 , 18 , 40 and 41 to article 8 , bringing under codecision the approval and conditions for use of rapid diagnostic tests .
nor can i accept that tests should be capable of detecting infectivity in all products and at all stages of the disease .
i partly accept amendment no 19 to article 8 , requesting a review of the age limits for srm removal under a commitology procedure .
i cannot , however , accept the restraint of annual reviews and , in particular , the proposed deadline for the first review which is foreseen for 1 january next , which is too soon .
i also accept amendment no 20 to article 8 , which brings under codecision the principle of granting derogations from the provisions on srm removal in high-risk areas or for taking account of an effective feed ban .
i also welcome amendments nos 38 , 39 and 56 to annex iv .
i can partly accept amendments nos 21 and 57 on condition that the possibility of extending the feed ban is allowed , irrespective of risk status .
i also partly accept amendment no 54 to annex v , laying down the detailed rules on the extended feed ban .
i can partly accept amendment no 50 to annex v where it exempts gelatine from hides from the ban .
i also cannot accept amendment no 23 to article 9 , ensuring immediate application of the feed prohibitions , as this amendment does not fully make sense legally .
on disease eradication : i accept amendments nos 25 and 28 .
i also welcome amendment no 24 to article 11 , but propose to reformulate , providing for " regular " rather than " immediate " notification .
i can also partly accept amendment no 26 to article 13 and amendment no 43 to annex vii , introducing whole-herd slaughter for bse in cattle , sheep and goats and , secondly , excluding research animals from these provisions .
i can partly accept amendment no 44 on condition that the equivalent measures are approved on a case-by-case basis under commitology .
i do not accept amendment no 27 to article 13 , requiring a complete standstill on a holding with a confirmed tse case , as i consider the extremely strict conditions of our proposals are already sufficient , as they require measures to be taken under strict , official veterinary supervision , duly certified .
i also cannot accept amendment no 37 to annex ii , as the proposed definition is not used elsewhere in the text and is , in addition , inadequate for tse control purposes .
i should add that adns regions are too small and too difficult to control .
on the conditions for marketing animals : we welcome the intention of amendment no 53 to article 16 .
i also welcome the intention of amendment no 45 to annex viii , but would ask for flexibility to determine the exact duration of the scrapie-free period .
i cannot accept amendment no 55 to annex viii , reducing the protection measures against scrapie .
furthermore , i cannot accept amendment no 46 to annex viii , extending the ban on placing on the market offspring of tse cases , for lack of scientific support .
finally , on laboratory techniques , i accept amendments nos 47 and 48 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
mr president , as you say , this is a new procedure and i hope that it helps to establish in parliament the importance of the conciliation procedure in achieving legislation to which parliament has aspired .
the delegation also had a great responsibility in this negotiation because we had many difficult decisions to take .
we did not achieve everything that we wanted to achieve as a parliament , but i think we went a long way towards helping all those people who are now going to be included within the working time directive to see some progress so that they can eventually get to the goal that we were all trying to achieve .
if we take , for instance , the junior doctors , we discover that parliament originally wanted a six-year period in which to achieve the 48 hours .
that was never likely to be negotiated with the council , but we were able to make substantial progress from the council 's original proposal of 13 years .
only in extreme circumstances will governments be able to go through a procedure to justify an extension of that period of nine years .
we also were able to clarify the position regarding the classification of mobile workers .
in all honour to everybody concerned in the negotiation , the council and all members of the delegation , they have made real progress and i recommend the outcome of the conciliation process to the house and hope they support it .
thank you , mr provan .
for the sea-fishing sector , the european parliament managed to secure a maximum working week of 48 hours , over a twelve-month reference period .
the main thing is that those countries that want a transitional period in excess of nine years will need to follow a very demanding procedure in order to achieve this .
the idea that politicians in brussels or strasbourg should determine how many hours different people work across europe is , we believe , fundamentally daft .
however , because of the special issue of over-worked junior doctors in the uk , as conservative meps we voted last november to extend the directive to them .
i believe in the circumstances we could not have done any better , but those three played a major role in that .
i should briefly like to mention a point made by some of my colleagues from that delegation .
the fact that i could say that on this issue we were speaking as one and it was a cross-party alliance hopefully helped to reinforce the overall message and the will of parliament .
but it is , as you know , nine years , plus two years , plus one year .
the uk government will add that up to twelve years as against the 13 years which the uk government was asking for initially .
we still support a better deal for junior doctors ; we will still continue to pressure our own government to provide it , but a directive from the european parliament is clearly not the right way to secure it .
i would like to begin by echoing previous speakers and adding my words of thanks to the rapporteur and to our chairman and to you for the magnificent work you did in that conciliation .
the progress we achieved is in large part thanks to the formidable effort and attention to detail the rapporteur put in to this .
there are three main issues which i would like to concentrate on in the brief time available to me .
in the original working time directive we had agreed way back in 1993 that it would be possible to introduce annualisation of working time for categories of workers , but only where collective agreements allowed that to happen .
as far as offshore workers and mobile workers in the transport sector are concerned - there was an attempt in the common position to allow annualisation of working time for those workers without collective agreement .
there we have now built in to the directive the principle that a 48-hour average working week over a period of one year will be the rule .
looking at this part of the agreement without detailed knowledge of the negotiations that went into it , it must seem like a very strange animal .
a four-year transposition period - five years transition and then the possibility of extra time beyond that .
i think that in fact we will see all member states complying with that section of the directive relating to junior doctors within that nine-year time frame .
i am confident , speaking today , that will be the case .
the provisions relating to nine years for junior doctors only relate to the average working week .
those parts of the directive can , of course , be subject to derogation but only by collective agreement so those elements will apply to junior doctors .
i would like to talk specifically about junior doctors .
there are 270 000 junior doctors across the eu who will be affected by this . 50.1 % in my constituency work over 72 hours a week as do 10 000 in the uk as a whole .
you can see from those figures that it is extremely important that all member states actually meet those objectives and i mean the nine-year objective .
the present situation is not good for patients or doctors alike - they have our life in their hands .
as i have said before , our life is in their hands and it is important that we get this right .
i believe that they are wrong and that is why we have the extension for two years and also the extension after that for one year .
it is not twelve years - it is nine years and we must state that very , very clearly .
i have been deeply concerned at some of the arguments put forward by certain governments which have said that other aspects of health provision could be threatened if the reduction of working time for this group was brought in more quickly .
i cannot understand why it is less important for these workers to have reasonable working conditions and hours than any other group of health workers .
i want to know whether junior doctors in some countries are some sort of superhuman who can do without adequate rest and who will not harm their own health or that of their patients in the process .
i would like to congratulate in advance those member states that will meet their obligations under this directive for all sectors .
the idea was that seven million people should be brought within the scope of the directive .
if the decision is interpreted as it already has been by some people in this debate , namely as saying that the transposition and transitional periods for doctors should add up to nine years and that there should , above and beyond that , be the possibility of an additional three years ' extra time , then we arrive at a total period of twelve years .
i thought it was appropriate for at least someone in this parliament to use his voting right for the purpose of indicating this dissatisfaction .
the intention expressed by this chamber has , of course , been that , where junior doctors are concerned , the period for implementing the present directive should be nine years and that the three extra years should only apply in extreme and exceptional cases .
i want to conclude by saying that , on more than one occasion , the european parliament has shown itself to be a significant force where working time legislation in europe is concerned .
young and old have different needs and different abilities .
it is incumbent on us to send out a clear message that we would expect every government in the european union to comply fully with the nine years .
i shall just deal very briefly with two other points concerning the whole working time directive .
however , it is a notoriously difficult area to enforce because of outside conditions , such as bad weather , that will affect the way fishermen operate .
secondly , transport workers : when we already have tachograph legislation in place , why do we need to bring in a separate and new directive on transport workers , in particular lorry drivers and so on ?
i would like also to extend warm thanks to the commission , particularly for their declaration on working on sundays .
if you vote against this compromise - and i would understand if you did , because i myself find nine years for junior doctors far too long - you will then be against everything , in effect .
the working time directive will not be complete until these issues have been resolved .
i will be truly happy to see these sectors , which were excluded from the 1993 directive , provided with a recognised european regulation on working time , even if it does involve long and protracted timescales .
mr president , in previous debates here last november and in april of this year i supported the general principles behind the idea of directives on working time and i still do so .
i note the compromise concerning sea-fishermen - a maximum of 48 hours of weekly work in a reference period of 12 months and the possibility of derogation after consultation and by agreement .
this may be an improvement but i still have some questions to put to the commission .
the directive says that work at sea comprises sea fishing and other offshore work .
the most contentious part of the directive was bound to relate to doctors in training who would benefit from this piece of legislation .
one should recall that the council had originally proposed an exemption for a period of some 13 years before doctors in training would secure the benefits of the directive .
naturally , parliament put forward its own proposals to support the right of doctors in training to be covered by this directive after a period of 4 years .
according to the conclusions of the conciliation committee , junior doctors will secure benefits after a transitional period of five years and a four-year transposition period .
i fully support the right of junior doctors and doctors in training to secure the benefits of this directive , but the conciliation committee conclusions will have reluctantly to be accepted .
i would like in conclusion to refer to one small but very important matter , namely that under exceptional circumstances there may be a further extension of two years and indeed up to three years if governments argue that the reduction would cause real administrative difficulties .
seven million workers were affected and specific sectors , such as the mobile worker sector , have been subject to ruinous competition over recent years , especially in germany .
it is therefore also a social problem and it is not enough , mr crowley , to use tachographs or other technical aids .
i think , mrs smet , you have proven that we can also fight .
the results are acceptable .
directive 93 / 104 was already very restrictive as far as worker production is concerned .
what is more , a number of categories were excluded from its field of competence .
it will permit further exemptions to the already excessive legislation of 48 hours per week .
finally , it will take nine years , in the best possible case , for the working week of doctors in training to be reduced from 58 hours to 48 .
in fact , the proposed working time organisation institutes social deregulation at the very time when , in france , doctors in training are campaigning for decent working conditions and genuine safety for service-users .
proper organisation of working time would entail , we reiterate , a real reduction in working hours accompanied by moves to create a sufficient number of jobs .
we cannot support this report as it stands .
mr president , this proposal will bring an additional seven million workers in europe under the protection of the working time directive , allowing them to have reasonable working conditions and proper rest periods .
it has been obvious since 1993 that those excluded from the directive at that time would eventually come under its protection .
one has to ask , therefore , why over that seven-year period virtually nothing was done in ireland or in britain to bring the number of doctors forward that would be needed to implement it .
in ireland some junior doctors work over 100 hours per week , the average being 70 to 80 .
i would appeal to all national governments , including ireland , not to utilise the additional provisions for extending the implementation of this directive beyond the nine-year period and would remind them that it is intended only as an exceptional measure if all other genuine steps have been taken to implement the measures here .
mr president , the proposed working time directive for specific categories of worker such as doctors in training , offshore workers or mobile workers , is typical of the slow and derisory nature of social europe .
the recitals of the proposal , nonetheless , stress the specific importance of this file , the first major file on social issues , adding , even , that it is a matter of the health and safety of 7 million workers .
in france , for example , a number of strikes by junior doctors recently drew the attention of public opinion to the intolerable length of the working day for this category of worker , harmful to the doctors in training themselves , but also to the quality of the care they are providing their patients with .
what we should have had was a quick decision and an appropriate reduction in working hours .
for the first three years , 58-hour working weeks are permitted .
we shall not vote against this text , but we shall conclude from this experience that workers can have no expectations of social europe and that , decidedly , nothing can replace the collective strength of the workers when it comes to amending legislation in favour of the workers .
mr president , the chairman of the european parliament ' s committee on employment and social affairs could not remain silent in this debate .
i feel that the most interesting point - and this is my third comment - is the number of workers affected by this directive , who are at present excluded from the working time directive and who will enjoy these rights once this directive is applied .
the upshot is that the provisions of the working directive will apply to doctors in training , workers at sea , rail workers and all non-mobile workers in excluded sectors .
i would also like to give special thanks to the portuguese presidency and the member states , particularly those which , for reasons we cannot go into right now , have experienced major problems with their national health services , such as great britain , spain and ireland .
secondly , as for road transport , the commission tabled a proposal in 1996 , but it was blocked by the council in 1998 .
the commission intends , with the cooperation of the french presidency , to re-table the issue .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
people occasionally get a little bored when one talks about internal procedures but what they should recognise is what we are discussing in these particular proposals : ways in which , first of all , we can get assistance to people more rapidly and effectively and , secondly , ways in which we can change the image of the european union around the world .
it is worth noting that our assistance programmes in the mediterranean have increased four and a half times since 1990 .
then there is the balkans crisis where the attempts to put in place a common foreign and security policy are being particularly tested .
while our external assistance programmes themselves have grown very rapidly , staff resources have failed to keep pace .
the commission has 2.9 staff for every eur 10 million that we manage .
that compares with an average figure about twice that for member states - the figure is 5.7 but it goes as high as 9 for some member states and 4.2 for the world bank .
it is worth noting that we have spent about eur 170 million a year on the 80 technical assistance offices which is equivalent to the cost of 800 staff working for the commission .
a consequence of all this is that the scr today has over eur 21 billion in outstanding commitments awaiting payments .
we have brought forward in the document , which has now been made public , our proposals for dealing with this problem .
what we have to do - whatever the long term objective may be is - to find better ways of managing our external assistance straightaway .
what we propose to do is to create a new implementation body replacing the scr which we think should be called europe aid .
the budgetary authority will ultimately have to judge the right scale of european union external aid programmes .
however , my only aim is to put the commission in a position where it can run these programmes competently .
i have to say very bluntly to parliament that there are two possibilities : either the budgetary authority agrees with our ideas and will then try to implement them from 2001 , or else , in order to manage what our programmes amount to more competently , we will be obliged to propose very large cuts .
we cannot go on in a situation in which we are not prepared to provide the resources to manage effectively the money that is voted by the budgetary authority for our external assistance programmes .
i am sure that parliament will have a considerable contribution to make to the discussion over the next few months .
however , my impression after a few months in this job is that parliament wants as badly as the commission to deliver a more competently run assistance programme all around the world .
mr president , this is refreshing - the fact that the european union is acknowledging that there are problems but that we have solutions .
the solution we have reached is to create a board of directors which will oversee and politically be the managerial part of running the new office or europeaid or whatever scr is going to be called .
my role on that board will be that of the chief executive officer .
we are in a sense structuring the political roles that have been defined and we are doing it in such a way that i think it really does have a chance of functioning .
the other one is the quality-support group which will have its secretariat in dg development .
this will also concentrate a lot of attention among all relex commissioners on the problem of whether or not we actually are delivering .
the reality , because of the way we are organised in the commission , is that ownership on our side is extremely vague and problematic .
this is going to change as a consequence of the reform we are putting forward now .
finally , i will address the issue of the risk of what happens if we do not get the staff and the resources to do the job .
we have commitments , we have an agreement with 71 acp states , we have the member states backing that and accepting the next ninth european development fund .
mr president , i am very happy to hear that , in order to fulfil commitments , more resources and personnel are required .
as parliament is aware of this , we will offer our full support .
within this ' continuum ' i would like to know whether , as has been the case until now , echo will be an office dependent on the commission , but whose action will be based on development policies aimed at what we want to see , and that is the eradication of poverty .
the only issue is to create a better link or bridge between the phase of humanitarian assistance and the more forward-oriented , long-term development assistance .
we have to say it a tous azimuts .
we will be making a positive effort to get a solution that makes it possible to continue at least at the level of activity that we have now .
i warn against giving the impression our development cooperation activities have all but stopped .
mr deva , we will , as part of the new suva agreement - the successor to the lome convention - be including in our activities a eur 2.2 billion private investment facility which will be administered by the european investment bank at arm 's length .
micro-credit is a big thing but it is not the only answer to all problems .
thank you very much , mr nielson , for your optimistic view of the future .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0220 / 2000 ) .
xu wenli , one of the founders of the cdp , was sentenced to 13 years in jail in december 1998 , along with two other prominent democracy campaigners .
as the honourable member will know , the longstanding policy of the union is to raise the individual cases of chinese citizens who have been in prison for political offences with the chinese authorities , particularly in the context of the human rights dialogue , the last meeting of which took place on 25 february this year .
bearing in mind , commissioner , what you said about your willingness to raise individual cases , could i also ask you to make enquiries about the fate of rebiya kadeer .
she was arrested on 11 august 1999 in urumqui , the capital of the xuar , while on her way to meet representatives of the us congressional research service .
i will gladly provide more detailed information on that , mr commissioner .
as the author is not present , question no 33 lapses .
question no 34 by ( h-0357 / 00 ) : subject : the commission 's reform programme and enlargement on 1 march 2000 , the commission adopted the white paper on the reform of the commission .
delay in designing a practical strategy and in pursuing necessary modernisation would not have been acceptable to the commission , to the council , to this parliament or to the public , as i am sure the honourable member understands .
as the college of commissioners made clear in our introduction to the white paper , and elsewhere in that document , and i quote what we said : " the challenges of globalisation and future enlargement require better governance at all levels including the european union . "
all political institutions must rise to this challenge and so must the commission .
the current administrative reform is not a limited exercise - it is an evolutionary process as we have made very clear - it will be continuously monitored and the results achieved will be assessed in order to provide for any relevant adjustments .
what i know on the basis of precedent , and also the commission 's assessment of the scope and the depth of the challenges that arise from the forthcoming enlargement , is that appropriate measures will be taken at the right time not only in terms of the recruitment and integration of properly skilled staff from the new member states but also to assist with the preparation of other areas of expertise - presumably including the scientific and other committees .
in addition to relying upon those casual professional relationships , i am sure that the commission will want to ensure that there is continuity and access provided for those new incoming member states not only in areas like those that he has mentioned - veterinary and plant health - but in many other areas where the smoothest possible integration of efforts is a matter of crucial and mutual importance .
question no 35 by ( h-0411 / 00 ) : subject : boarding of community vessels by canadian inspectors in international waters five years after the seizure of the estai , the community fleet fishing in nafo international waters has expressed deep concern at the boarding of a portuguese vessel , the santa mafalda , supposedly by canadian inspectors .
the santa mafalda , a vessel used to catch halibut , was boarded on 24 april last .
nafo inspectors are obliged to carry out their duties in accordance with rules set out in the nafo scheme and they are also obliged to remain under the operational control of the authorities of their contracting parties and be responsible to them .
against that background , on 23 april two canadian nafo inspectors accompanied by a trainee carried out an inspection of the community fishing vessel santa mafalda which was operating at that time in the nafo regulatory area .
the santa mafalda arrived in aveiro on 10 may 2000 and two commission inspectors participated in a thorough inspection of the vessel .
the commission has drawn the attention of the canadian authorities to the procedures followed by the canadian inspectors in relation to their seizure of documentation and their continued stay on board the santa mafalda .
the commission takes the view that the canadian nafo inspectors in question acted in breach of the nafo scheme by taking away documents from the vessel without the permission of the master and by continuing to stay on board the vessel .
the commissioner knows , as i do , that the current situation in the nafo is not , fortunately , what it was five years ago after the seizure of the estai .
however , there are still outstanding questions , such as the extraterritorial clauses , which allow the canadian government to carry out inspections , controls and seizures beyond their national waters , in open sea , which is incompatible with international provisions and which , all too frequently , involves the arbitrary application of controls within the framework of the nafo .
it would not be proper publicly to pursue the matter further , but when the report of that inspection and the assessment by the portuguese authorities are available , i am certain that they will be communicated to interested members including , of course , the chairman of parliament 's committee on fisheries and i am certain the honourable lady whose interest is manifest .
question no 36 by ( h-0415 / 00 ) : subject : need to support and strengthen the olive oil sector the implementation of the new olive oil regulation is having severe consequences for greek producers who are poor farmers in infertile and island regions .
second part questions to mr solbes one of the greatest benefits of the question time arrangement is the way in which it endows me with instant expertise on issues as far apart as fishing , olive oil and human rights in china !
in june 1998 , the commission undertook to present a proposal on the future of the common organisation of the market in olive oil to the council and parliament in 2000 .
the new regime would apply from the 2001 / 2002 marketing year which , as the honourable member will know , begins on 1 november 2001 .
the commission is currently studying new data on the structure of olive oil production in the various producer member states , as well as developments in the world market where the community is the leading producer by a considerable margin .
the study will also take into account the need to draw up an olive oil quality strategy in order to add more value to the product .
as far as product promotion is concerned , the community is already financing promotion campaigns through the international olive oil council .
in response to a specific issue raised by the honourable member 's question , i have to point out that the produce of new plantings would not give entitlement to aid .
finally , the commission wishes to point out that rather than simply abolishing the intervention system , what has actually happened is that it has been replaced by a system of private storage which is more flexible than the intervention system because it applies throughout the marketing year if the market situation calls for such support .
all i can say to him at this juncture , because i know this is a matter of continuing concern and activity by him , is that the cmo for olive oil is due to be reformed , as i indicated earlier , by 1 november 2001 , following agreement in the council and in this parliament in adopting regulation 1638 / 98 .
i cannot assume that if the situation were precisely as the honourable member describes , and smaller producers were in a dangerously disadvantaged position by comparison with the big producers , there would have been such agreement in the council and in this house .
that is how we sustain our considerable lead in world markets .
thank you very much , mr kinnock , for your cooperation during this question time .
question no 37 by ( h-0409 / 00 ) : subject : further integration entailed by emu in the commission 's estimation , to what extent do the requirements imposed by emu on economic policy - which include permanently fixed exchange rates - create the need for further economic integration in the form of a more extensive common budget ( a common fiscal policy ) , cyclical transfers between member states , increased labour mobility between the participating states and / or a more flexible labour market ?
at the same time , as the common monetary policy will mean the same interest rate for all member states of the monetary union , it will not only have an effect in terms of developing demand , but it will also mean greater integration of the financial markets .
for this to have the greatest positive effect , it is essential that we carry out a policy of rationalised public finances , which will not generate tensions in monetary policy itself , and at the same time , a decisive policy of structural reforms and a competition policy , which will allow the maximum benefit to be drawn from the process .
the basic framework which we have introduced is a framework of mutual supervision of national fiscal policies and of coordination of economic policies by means of processes to improve our structural situations and the coordination or creation of a positive macroeconomic environment which will favour growth and employment , and at the same time reduce the possibility of asymmetric clashes caused by economic policies .
budgetary consolidation itself , which is , of course , the reduction of the public deficit , gives each member state room to act in adverse situations .
greater labour mobility may certainly help to confront the problems which may arise in the event of asymmetric clashes .
both an increase in the available work force and an improvement in productivity would improve the situation in terms of creating jobs and helping to reduce unemployment .
the commission has therefore insisted on its various strategies regarding the specific point of labour mobility , while remaining aware that this is a difficult issue .
it is difficult within member states and it is difficult between one member state and another , due not only to historical and cultural incompatibilities in terms of education , but also to a series of other aspects related to this type of situation .
we believe that it is a much better idea to establish a general framework of economic health , of good economic behaviour , which will allow us to confront the difficulties in the case in question .
this is an agreement adopted by the council of ministers as a result of initiatives by certain member states and which i also support , since i believe that a good budgetary policy provides greater room for manoeuvre in the event of difficulties .
in this year ' s recommendations we have taken particular account of the commission ' s own analyses regarding what the margins are , and which benchmarks we are setting in each of the member states to tackle the crisis without exceeding the 3 % public deficit , which is the figure we have established as a reference .
we can see that that situation is different in each of the countries and , therefore , our recommendations and our comments will always be different in each of the countries , although this is not the only aspect that we take into consideration .
the euro has been a great success , in terms of its introduction , in terms of issuing it as a currency , in terms of the consolidation of an excellent economic situation in europe and in terms of the forecasts for the future .
we also believe that the development of growth in europe will be strong throughout 2000 and , as a result , we will match us growth by the end of this year .
in these circumstances , we believe that the value of the euro will be rising in the coming months .
therefore , despite a certain degree of concern - because that concern exists within public opinion - about the evolution of the euro , we believe that this situation will be corrected and that it should be considered to be temporary rather than permanent .
firstly , with regard to increasing cooperation in terms of coordinating economic policies , i believe that it is necessary and positive and is one of the elements which is emerging from this current crisis .
transfers of capital may generate additional activity in the united states , but the positive increase in exports is generating activity in europe .
in any event , what i do believe - as i said earlier - is that the euro , at the moment , has an exchange rate which , if we analyse it in relation to its components and its historical situation , is not that different from situations which have existed at other times .
i am convinced that this is a transitional situation which will improve during this year .
question no 38 by ( h-0419 / 00 ) : subject : precarious employment and the industrial-accident rate in spain and in the murcia region at the lisbon summit , a commitment was made to achieving full employment in proper jobs throughout the eu .
in response to the french government ' s proposal involving a reduction in working hours in order to create more proper , stable jobs , the approach agreed between the spanish and uk governments , which calls for further deregulation of employment conditions in order to increase the number of jobs , has been adopted .
questions to mr verheugen mr president , despite the fact that i was born next to the murcia region , it is difficult for me to analyse , in community terms , the problems of the precarious employment there .
the assessment of the labour market reforms which have resulted from the processes we have established in the union - the luxembourg process and the broad guidelines for economic policy - demonstrates that the reforms of the regulations on the labour market in the different countries are making a positive and significant contribution to greater economic growth and to promoting the creation of employment and the greater participation of men and women in the labour market .
the broad guidelines of economic policy and the recommendations for employment have never advocated a simple deregulation of the labour market , as the question states .
together with the reform of certain labour market regulations , they also include , for example , the need to adopt measures which will promote entrepreneurial spirit or active labour market policies - and we state this quite deliberately - to improve employment opportunities .
it is also quite normal for the commission to insist on the need to hold debates and make agreements with social partners so that they may actively participate in the changes to the labour market in each country .
the recent lisbon summit gave a new impulse to the union ' s economic and social agenda and we have also insisted on this point by talking of more and better employment .
i would also like to highlight , as a fundamental contribution to the consolidation of the progress made until now , the promotion and maintenance of rigorous regulations on health and safety at work , which has been one of the most prominent issues in the debate held in the commission , which advocates better jobs in europe .
labour market reforms directed at improving employment opportunities and workers ' ability to adapt to these new opportunities in no way seek to undermine working conditions or health and safety at work .
in accordance with its legal competence as laid down in the treaty , the commission has kept up the necessary efforts to implement and propose various legal instruments and monitor the incorporation of the acquis communautaire in this area .
the commission must guarantee that those directives are transposed into national law correctly and , clearly , to monitor all the issues relating to its application , which is the responsibility of the national authorities .
our concern has always been not only greater employment but also greater quality of employment .
nevertheless , you introduced a second element in your supplementary question which , in my opinion , is of great interest : why do we not establish the objective of full employment in the same way that we established the objectives of the treaty of maastricht at the time ?
in the case of full employment , the figure is the consequence of measures which are intended to achieve an objective , but which do not have a causal relationship which guarantees its objective .
what we can consider is what is being done in the various employment programmes , and that is the implementation of certain elements which will allow us to move towards full employment .
when we spoke of full employment in the commission document which served as a basis for the debate in lisbon , we expressly said that if we add the development of the economy in accordance with currently available figures to the various determining factors and policies proposed by the commission , full employment will be achieved .
however , this cannot be a political objective , as in maastricht , because it does not depend on the will of the different governments or on a specific decision by each one of them .
in the countries of the southern mediterranean , and specifically in the region of murcia , they have , in recent years , stopped managing unemployment and started to manage employment .
however , it is clear that accidents in the workplace - which i am now talking about - are a problem of education and mutual responsibility on the part of businessmen , the state , public administration and , of course , trade unions .
in spain , back in 1995 , a law was adopted in this respect , and they are trying to comply with it , but this cannot be achieved in a day .
therefore , commissioner , firstly , what active policies and which economic sectors do you intend to bring into play in order to achieve better education in this particular area , so that a sense of responsibility may be developed ?
consequently , both the funding of these immigrant education programmes and the active policies are decisions which logically depend on which social policy the spanish government accepts or decides on .
the legal acts which we are talking about here are legal acts passed by the council , by parliament , by the commission and by all the community institutions .
you , as a member of the most important legislative institution of the european union know full well that these legal acts have not been numbered consecutively .
if you think that commission officials are well employed if i sit them down and tell them to spend a week counting the legal acts issued since 1955 , then let me tell you that i do not .
i am curious to know how it helps if i tell you that this figure is 21334 or 21425 .
screening is used merely to identify the acquis of the european union and how much of it already forms part of the candidate country ' s legislation and how much does not .
i know that for the luxembourg group of countries , with which negotiations started in march 1998 , between 10 and 15 out of a total of 31 negotiating chapters have been provisionally completed .
with the helsinki group of countries , negotiations did not start until february of this year .
but whether or not that will be possible will only become apparent in the autumn of this year once we have the up-to-date progress reports on preparations for accession for each individual candidate country .
mr president , commissioner , my question does not concern the timetable ; instead i would like to ask a question regarding a principle of enlargement .
the process of enlargement is expected to be a truly demanding one , in which there is a danger that we either become frustrated by long waiting times or compromise over the criteria by granting overlong transition periods , which will naturally cause displeasure in the old member states .
mr president , it is certainly correct to say , mr verheugen , that the chapter has not been completed , but negotiations have started .
mr president , mrs muller , i assume that you know that accession negotiations take the form of a state conference at which the member states , not the commission , negotiate and i am not therefore entitled to divulge the content of negotiations which have not yet been completed .
the question which you actually want answered is the question of how we can prepare for the problems which will arise in certain border regions following enlargement .
but we have not yet reached that point .
i believe , in fact , that we can succeed in enlarging the union if we combine these two aspects : firstly , the free movement of services and employees and , secondly , more equal conditions when it comes to the dialogue between employers and employees .
mr president , to be honest , the underlying question was how many legal acts does the european union have .
all the acquis is taken into consideration in the progress reports on the candidate countries .
we must also report in the progress reports - as you will have noticed - as to whether a country is complying with the copenhagen criteria .
commissioner , we were in fact discussing the matter of transition periods .
thank you very much , mr commissioner , for your replies .
questions nos 41 and 42 will be replied to in writing .
also in the rules as i recall , you are only allowed to take one supplementary question per political group and these rules are being broken and as a consequence , for the second week running , i miss out on a question .
you may write the letter you mentioned and you will receive a polite and full reply , but please do not worry since my intention was to give you the floor within the time allotted .
in most cases the commission can close the examination of the notified aid project after the preliminary examination , that is without opening a formal investigation .
such decisions must be taken within two months following the receipt of a complete notification .
in practice , notifications are frequently incomplete so that the commission is forced to request additional information before it can take a decision .
when doubts are raised about the compatibility of an aid project with the common market , the commission must open a formal investigation for which the regulation provides an indicative time-limit of 18 months .
secondly , the cases for which a formal investigation is opened are usually very complex and therefore require a longer period of examination , often also involving meetings with the member state concerned and modifications to the original project .
once they are in force , member states will no longer need to notify aid projects complying with the conditions of the exemption regulations but can grant the aid immediately .
this will considerably simplify state aid procedures .
however , in some member states there is still a serious problem created by delays in decision-taking on state aids .
i am convinced that some jobs have been lost because waiting for the decision on state aid has meant that a company has gone out of business in the end because it did not have the approval in time .
does the commission therefore consider that all state aids to the nuclear industry are prohibited by the ec treaty , given that no derogation is specified , and that article 98 of the euratom treaty does not provide for a subsidised accident insurance scheme for nuclear risks ?
moreover , while articles 87 and 88 of the ec treaty do provide for a general principle prohibiting state aids , they also authorise specific categories of state aid .
the commission has not made any proposals to the uk government on the subject of the nffo system in application of article 88 of the ec treaty .
if , however , cases of incompatible aid are brought to the attention of the commission , such cases will be dealt with in compliance with the terms of the relevant articles of the ec and euratom treaties .
i very clearly understand your concern , but permit me some observations .
the proposed new framework for state aid to the environment is very flexible with regard to the granting of aid to renewable energies .
certainly we have yet to discuss in detail how this is to be accomplished , but the principle of double majority is fundamentally right .
as far as the commission is concerned , as i see it , the small states must still be entitled , in the future , to be represented in the european commission , since it is felt to be important to maintain a presence in brussels .
naturally , the european parliament must be the decisive factor in the democratic process , and it must participate in decisions pertaining to legislative issues in the european union .
this is a very important point and i am delighted that both rapporteurs saw fit to mention it .
mr president , with the dimitrakopoulos - leinen report under discussion , the european parliament is declaring its great vision for the european union of the future .
the draft resolution is therefore quite right to define that basic view in the form of three principles .
thirdly , the way the union functions must be made more effective , so that it can cope with the major enlargement .
the intergovernmental conference of 2000 is taking place to make the union as effective as is required in view of the major enlargement that has been decided .
the effectiveness of democratic institutions is not measured either with a stopwatch , or according to the number of decisions taken .
mr president , within our groups in parliament and within the igc itself we are still struggling with the problems that proved fairly intractable at amsterdam .
these issues are tricky because they expose both the exaggerated self-importance of small states and the folie de grandeur of the big states .
this trust is precisely the quality that is needed so that we are able to ensure the successful accession of the new member states .
the fact is - and somebody should say this - that if the igc fails to resolve the amsterdam questions , enlargement must be postponed .
the liberal group supports the efforts of the presidency and of the commission to build up the extra trust required .
mr president , the european parliament does not take part in intergovernmental conference negotiations .
therefore , our assessment of this report is based on the fact that it is being presented in an unsatisfactory context , in which our priorities - an open , working democracy capable of rendering economic development environmentally sustainable , which ensures the respect and consolidation of the rights of the citizens and residents , and , most importantly , which is able to enlarge to include new member countries in a short period of time - are not the same as those of the negotiating governments .
the governments have one sole objective : to reach a unanimous agreement in nice , whatever the outcome , so that they do not have to move on to some other city as obscure as maastricht .
although parliament cannot take part in negotiations , it has a duty to indicate the way , to define clear options for the future , without pretending to take part in the actual negotiations and without being conditioned by governmental pressure or pressure from artificial comparisons , such as the comparison between large and small countries .
this report only partly achieves this objective , and this is why our group was not able to be unanimous in its final assessment .
in this regard , we hope that our amendment will find consensus in the house .
in particular , as regards the subject of the number of commissioners , we will support the balanced position of those amendments which ensure both sufficient representation of the member states and the efficiency of the commission .
to sum up , this report may well be useful in assisting our two representatives in their often extremely frustrating daily work at the intergovernmental conference where others take the decisions , but to our citizens , it will seem about as clear as an interministerial memorandum .
it is making sure that we do not just build a europe of the states and a europe of the people , but , especially , a europe of the citizens .
we must create a fully democratic institutional fabric .
we cannot create an amsterdam 2 .
we have to create a treaty which gives rise to genuine european construction in which more than 400 million europeans can share economic prosperity , a social dimension and a democratic life .
this is the great challenge for the european institutions and for european politics .
my vision of european construction is compatible with the fundamental lines which are laid out in the report which we are discussing today .
it is , of course , necessary to give the commission the powers it needs and make it responsible to parliament .
our minimum demand is that parliament be treated as an adult which has to request that the commission take certain responsibilities , but which also has to participate actively in european construction on behalf of the european citizens .
on behalf of the european citizens , we have to ask today not only for that fine-tuning of decision making but also for the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty .
mr president , in our view the european parliament ' s proposals for the intergovernmental conference , as set out in the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report , are a misinterpretation .
first of all , it takes us away from the concept of europe as an association of states , an association of national democracies , and puts all the countries , great or small , that are afraid of being marginalised on the defensive .
we must adopt a more positive approach .
the asset under our constitutions is the right of voters to be heard and to choose representatives who can pass laws on our behalf .
they are taking legislative power from our 15 national parliaments and transferring it to officials and ministers , from voters and elected representatives to the executive and from open assemblies to meetings behind closed doors in brussels .
electoral power is being transferred from our constitutions , but is not being transferred to the european parliament .
the voters in our countries should always have the last word .
mr president , dismayed as i am at the ongoing prejudice shown towards austria by 14 member states , i would like to confine my comments on the matter at hand to the issue of closer cooperation , in all its guises .
multi-speed integration of this kind cannot act as a guarantee for coherent and stable development of the union .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i am speaking as draftsman of the opinion of this parliament ' s committee on regional policy , transport and tourism .
i understand the importance of institutional reforms , but i would also like to express the opinion of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism on the issues which we must tackle in relation to the intergovernmental conference .
firstly , the active recognition of the role , protagonism and participation of the regions in the process of european construction which began 50 years ago .
to this end , we want an extended article 70 and we also want it to be supplemented with a provision on the creation of a single european agency for air traffic control .
the committee on constitutional affairs has set out a determined position and i want to pay tribute to its work and that of its chairman , mr napolitano .
parliament , like the commission , has sized up the challenge facing the union with the prospect of an unprecedented increase in the number of member states which , by the same token , will accentuate their diversity .
that is what is at stake in these negotiations , which we must bring to a successful conclusion at the end of this year , at the european council in nice .
i am thinking , for example , of the court of justice ' s workload and of the log-jams we see in some areas because of the requirement of unanimity in the council .
your parliament has looked in depth at the decision-making system in the council and at the composition and functioning of the commission .
since 26 january you have been well aware of the positions set out by the commission .
but we also proposed two options on that basis .
either every country will have a national representative within the commission at the same time , or not all countries will be represented at any one time .
negotiations on these issues have scarcely begun .
qualified majority voting should become the general rule for council decisions , together with the codecision procedure for all matters that come within the legislative sphere .
we are well aware that certain member states have difficulties with some of these questions .
what the commission , what the european parliament must do is precisely to look beyond these reservations and sincerely , honestly and without any ideological bias consider the coherence and effectiveness of the single market .
that is what we wanted to do with our additional contribution which describes the new area of qualified majority voting in relation to certain aspects of the tax system , certain aspects of social protection , to ensure the smooth operation of the single market .
but i also want to emphasise how important it is for us , outside our official and institutional establishments , to explain our activities and engage in dialogue with the national parliaments and the citizens of every eu country and with the candidate countries .
in saying that , i want to pay tribute to the portuguese presidency and in particular to jame gama and to franciscos seixas da costa for electing to adopt a pragmatic and objective approach , an approach that is as objective as possible and that consists in starting out from the needs and limitations of the existing system and proposing solutions .
the first point concerns european defence .
since the cologne council , and in particular the helsinki council , the necessary structures are being set up , on an interim basis , within the council ' s general secretariat .
discussions are under way on relations between the european union and nato .
the european union defence ministers met on 28 february .
in a few weeks ' time , the european council in feira will have to decide whether the treaty should be amended with a view to building on the guidelines of the helsinki european council .
our group of representatives has not considered these questions yet , but let me share a few ideas with you .
ladies and gentlemen , after matters relating to justice and the police , a security and defence policy is without doubt the last major common policy we have to establish .
the existing treaty , as amended at amsterdam , has enabled us to make significant progress .
it may be that , before it concludes , the intergovernmental conference will have to consider the structures and appropriateness of the existing treaty .
i do not have all the answers to this question but i think it needs to be asked , and to be asked in the context of the conference .
my second point concerns the eu charter of fundamental rights and the eu ' s democratic values .
the interest that is being shown in this draft charter and the support for its incorporation in the treaty confirm what i regard as the need to reaffirm , over and over again , the fundamental values of the eu , to set down once and for all the principles shared by all the citizens of europe .
it is the same need that inspired your parliament ' s report drafted by mr duff and mr voggenhuber .
your parliament has considered these questions , as it has considered the existing treaty provisions that would penalise any violation of the fundamental principles of the union .
the commission is prepared for this debate , which i believe is a necessary one , provided we keep it clear of any polemics .
but just as a mountain grows larger the closer you approach it , let me stress that this exercise involves major technical and legal difficulties .
the treaties are not complicated in the sense of deliberately wanting to discourage the reader ; they are complicated because the expression of the common resolve of 6 , 9 , 10 , 12 or 15 member states , over the efforts of 40 years , is not a linear operation , nor is it always as logical and simple as might be imagined after the fact , unless you start again from scratch .
then , if this reorganisation of the treaties proves possible and convincing - as i personally believe it will - it will be time to examine the procedures for amending these restructured texts .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , let me conclude by repeating that i and president romano prodi are prepared to continue and intensify these joint discussions so that , together with the council , indeed all together , we will succeed in achieving a genuine reform at the end of this year .
i believe that this is one of the best reports which have so far been produced in the framework of igcs over recent years .
as far as our group is concerned , the resolution needs to be amended on a number of points .
for example , we do not agree with the proposal in the resolution to restrict the number of commissioners to 20 and to introduce a rota system for the smaller countries .
in order to boost citizens ' confidence in the european commission , it is vital that each member state should have a commission member .
mr president , firstly , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , i would like to express my support for the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report and , furthermore , thank the portuguese presidency for their positive attitude towards the incorporation of parliament into the intergovernmental conference .
this report is of great value and i therefore believe we should support it today by a majority in this parliament , because this is an opportunity for a completely open debate on the great issues still facing us in europe .
this debate is going on between political and national groups in different member states .
i believe this should be an important element in our coexistence .
therefore , this is an important debate and i believe the council should take account of the position we take .
secondly , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , i believe we should also try to introduce some vision and some idealism into this debate .
these are clear and fundamental challenges , which refer to and are linked to the membership of the commission , the power of the president , fair contributions by the member states and such important questions as closer cooperation , majority voting and - a vital issue - the charter of fundamental rights .
i say this particularly in view of the crisis which we have seen in a member state as a result of the presence of a party whose fundamental values are contrary to the community of values which we hold here .
a final consideration : commissioner barnier has said that , before the end of the conference , we must resolve certain problems relating to the chain of command .
here , the only risk involved in democracy is the risk taken in elections .
this is the risk taken by minister gama , commissioner barnier and by all of us .
however , here in the gossip shops of brussels we create a situation and certain centres of power which do not correspond to the principles of democracy and transparency , which are precisely the principles which we have to strengthen in this intergovernmental conference .
i believe that it is important for all of the institutions to confront this issue responsibly .
we are to have a security policy worthy of the name , implement administrative reforms and , hopefully , win back some of the confidence our citizens have lost in the european project .
the intergovernmental conference should prepare the eu for these changes .
i would like them to know that my scepticism , and any decision on my part to reject this report , is no reflection on them , but on this house , which does not have the backbone to confront the european council with its own vision of what the future should hold for european integration .
in terms of power politics , or following a constitutional line of thought , it is quite clear what the council wants .
separation of powers , public scrutiny of legislation , parliamentarianism , unrestricted legal supervision on the part of the european court of justice , binding fundamental rights , strengthening of the original european institutions - the commission , parliament and the european court of justice - none of these matters are of concern to the council .
parliament must pluck up the courage to vie with the council when it comes to determining the future of european integration .
this is about nothing less than the rediscovery of democracy in the supranational sphere .
it is about nothing less - and this is , or would be parliament ' s task - than making european unification public property .
if you accept without criticism that not only does the council see itself as a legitimate representative of the states , it also claims to represent the people by virtue of the double majority , thereby depriving parliament of its legitimacy , then we still have a long way to go before ...... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , if the changes to the treaty proposed in the resolution we are debating are implemented , the european union will take an absolutely crucial step on the way to becoming a federal state and one , moreover , in which the national parliaments will lose control over almost all crucial areas of policy .
the eu ' s major problem today is not a lack of centralised power but a shortage of real democracy .
many adherents of emu on the left have , of course , argued in favour of altering the nature of monetary union in such a way that the central bank is placed under democratic control and that the goals of economic policy are not merely monetary .
however , any changes within the internal decision-making procedures must be balanced and fair .
we do not want to see a two-tier european union in which larger member states dictate the pace at the expense of the smaller member states .
for example , the report which we are debating today recommends a rotation system for the composition of the european commission .
i do not believe that this is a particularly sensible proposal . 380 million citizens of the union have an affinity with the commission .
it is still the institution that controls the operations of competition policy , the common agricultural policy , the common fisheries policy and the common transport policy .
we should also remember that some member states , including my country , must hold a referendum on any treaty changes that arise at the forthcoming igc .
the loss of an automatic right to nominate a commissioner would certainly be a very difficult , if not impossible , proposal to sell to an irish electorate in this referendum .
i would now like to return to the issue of extending the qualified majority voting system at european council level .
the council represents the interests of the 15 member state governments within the institutional framework of the union and currently , under existing eu treaties , unanimous agreement of the 15 member states is required for any tax changes sought within the union .
the report we are discussing today seeks to extend qualified majority voting to all legislative activities except those of a constitutional nature .
i believe that national member states should retain the right of veto on taxation matters .
the irish taxation system is innovative in many ways and has contributed to our present growth rates .
mr president , whilst i too wish to express my dismay at the ongoing prejudice displayed towards austria by 14 member states , i would like to take the opportunity to comment on the opinion of the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport , which refers to a number of very important areas .
most minority groups in europe define themselves through their cultural traditions , and it will only be possible to afford them the protection they need if we make it possible for them to integrate into mainstream society , whilst respecting their own traditions .
if we are to acknowledge and comprehend these traditions , we will have to do more than register the differences purely as ethnic characteristics or as a list of discriminations .
in defining and reworking the concept of a minority ' s culture , a new dimension will be added to this very important basis for identity , and cultural issues within the eu will not be treated as a mere colourful adjunct to our other very important responsibilities .
we are concerned by the proposals for constitutionalisation of the union , by the proposals to incorporate the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty , by the progressive diminishing of the distinction between the first and second pillars , by the proposal that the council should adopt broad guidelines of economic , employment and social convergence policies by qualified majority .
these are just some examples of the complex and controversial issues which are raised .
it should ensure that it meets the deadline , to enable the first wave of enlargement to include central and eastern european countries by 2004 , and to continue any further necessary reforms with the full inclusion of our new partners .
if the eu delays enlargement too long , it may make it more difficult , or impossible , for some candidate countries to join within the envisaged timetable .
the president-in-office addressed some of these concerns in his speech .
i do not think that is a very fair reflection on the extraordinary reforms that many of the candidate countries have made in the last 9 and 10 years since they were within the warsaw pact or formerly part of the soviet union .
our priority is enlargement .
mr president , my group welcomes this report .
it sends a clear message to the igc to be ambitious , to think long-term and not short-term , to think of how a union with nearly double the number of member states we have now can actually function effectively and to take this opportunity to change the treaties , because future igcs with nearly 30 states around the table will find it even more difficult than it is now to agree on reforms .
on the size of the commission , for instance , the formulas that are likely to be adopted tomorrow will refer either to one commissioner per member state or to a smaller number , a fixed number of commissioners .
the commission cannot go on expanding indefinitely .
in the second case , it will be a rotating system , so that every member state , large and small , has equal opportunities of seeing one of its nationals serve in the commission .
on the question of the size of the european parliament , we have also found a point of equilibrium , based on to a minimum number of members for each member state .
so the report is balanced and i think can be welcomed .
some people are saying : ' the igc will never agree to this point or to that point ' .
that is essential for our future .
unanimity voting must apply to decisions of a constitutional and fundamental nature .
closer cooperation must make it possible to manage diversity and avoid getting bogged down , without calling the fundamental structure of the union into question .
the scottish national party , which i represent , is committed in its manifesto and its general policy to the idea of europe as a confederation of peoples , countries and regions , not as a sovereign federal union in its own right .
i want to draw attention particularly to amendment no 138 , in its interaction with paragraph 32 of the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report .
the reduction in members of the european parliament that we would face , coupled with the arrival of new member states which are smaller in population than scotland or wales and which would be fully represented in all the institutions of the union , will certainly increase the pressure for and our people ' s commitment to the idea of our own independence in this great european confederation .
the commission can also accept amendments nos 1 to 4 , 8 , 11 , 24 , 35 to 38 , 46 , 48 , 49 and 52 in principle , as far as they clarify the intention of the commission to establish an efficient , transparent and balanced regulatory framework for gmos .
some of these amendments need only to be brought into line with the legal wording of the text of the directive and the overall legislative framework .
for other amendments , for instance those amendments concerning antibiotic-resistant marker genes , the principle is politically acceptable but the proposed text as such does not seem to be appropriate .
the commission is unable to accept amendments nos 5 to 7 , 10 , 12 to 16 , 18 , 20 to 23 , 25 to 28 , 30 to 34 , 39 to 45 , 50 and 51 .
more specifically concerning amendments nos 22 , 23 and 25 , the commission cannot accept them as they stand but is willing to consider how due account can be taken of the concerns they reflect .
i have the council ' s common position of 9 december 1999 before me .
if i remember correctly , we were still under the finnish council presidency in december 1999 , with a green environment minister .
the green group is not dependent on the positions of the green ministers represented in the environment council .
but i wanted to speak specifically on the vote on amendment no 37 .
i think it is quite logical to vote on amendment no 11 first , before amendment no 37 , because amendment no 11 goes further than amendment no 37 .
it proposes a total ban on antibiotic-resistant marker genes , which is not the case in amendment no 37 , which relates only to part c of the directive .
mr lannoye , the rapporteur discussed this question with the competent services yesterday .
in fact he believes that the wording of amendment no 11 is such as to suggest a different voting order from the one you recommend .
after the vote on amendments nos 38 and 49 : president .
but i also had to respect the protocol which , once again , unfortunately often takes precedence over our proceedings .
let me assure you that all your comments will be passed on to the bureau .
in paragraph 15 , instead of saying " the oau " it should say " the african states " .
in section 17 , instead of " the oau " it should say " africa " .
mr president , i am delighted this resolution has been adopted by parliament in recognition of the problem that exists with additionality .
as commissioner barnier has stated , it is as important to comply with the spirit of additionality as with the letter of the law .
the commissioner also endorsed the statement by commissioner liikanen that in future the commission would be particularly attentive to the spending figures put forward by the member states when there is evidence of reduced expenditure in a given region or regions .
paragraph a continues to confuse the principle of additionality with the separate but equally important principle of co-financing .
paragraph g is inaccurate .
our real goal must be to plan and give our support to the successful implementation of these funds to improve the life prospects of people in our poorest regions .
my party is committed to this goal and will work with other parties in a constructive and positive way to achieve this .
checks on the transport of dangerous goods by road mr president , i voted for this resolution because , clearly , the transport of dangerous goods is constantly in need of regulation .
the experience of workers who have been performing this activity for a substantial period of time should be recognised , and employment of the elderly in all the most hazardous activities should be promoted .
recommendation for second reading : bowe ( a5-0083 / 2000 ) president , we are very disappointed with the outcome of the vote .
if industry maintains that products of genetic engineering are safe and do not present risks , then i cannot understand why the majority of delegates have caved in and allowed industry to continue to evade responsibility .
a lame demand of this kind takes no account whatsoever of consumer interests .
mr president , i want to give an oral explanation of vote because what has happened , once again , is not very good news for our parliament .
this would mean that antibiotic-resistant products that have already been authorised would remain .
there are many less damaging forms of marker genes available and it is eu policy to prohibit all unnecessary use of antibiotics if there is a risk for human or animal health .
the directive should take a clear stand and insist that the use of these marker genes is stopped now .
the environment committee adopted two contradictory amendments , one for a total exemption and one tightening up the common position line of a conditional exemption with all the normal environmental risk provisions .
admittedly , we have known since first reading that the principle of banning gmos , or at least having a moratorium to allow for more in-depth studies , was rejected .
alas , as we already know from the white paper it prepared on the subject , the commission is not in favour of compulsory insurance in this area .
the pressure groups in the biotechnology industry explain that there is no risk , while at the same time saying that compulsory insurance is impossible because the risk is not insurable .
one obscure aspect of this business is that the french government which , according to the most recent information , includes ecologists , had officially expressed reservations about this amendment no 33 .
as a consumer , i am very pleased about this compulsory labelling because it will allow us to make an informed choice , although i would have preferred stricter rules that required a very clear indication on the outside packaging !
yet this is a positive first step , since it has led several large firms to stop putting gmos into their products .
the proposals of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy set out a strict and transparent framework , thus responding fully to consumer concerns .
the purpose of the three main amendments i support is as follows : to prevent any accidental contamination of fields by cross-pollination between gmo and non-gmo crops .
however , as proposed by the rapporteur , the amendments approved at first reading but not accepted by the council must now be included .
we also support the defence of total environmental liability as it is unacceptable not to force companies in the biotechnology sector to take the necessary measures to protect human health and minimise environmental risks .
as a swedish christian democrat member of the european parliament , i want to state that it must never be the gmo industry and economic interests which are allowed to govern legislation and regulations .
in purely practical terms , this means regulations which guarantee a minimised risk of the spread of gmos , a halt to the use of antibiotic resistance markers , an increase in independent research into the risks presented by gmos , liability for damages based on the principle that those who release gmos into the environment with deleterious effects upon health or the environment should be held strictly liable , long-term evaluations of the socio-economic and environmental consequences of the release of gmos into the environment , permanent labelling of gmo products , compliance with all current regulations , such as the biosafety protocol , and an open application and decision-making process in which the public are entitled to express an opinion and in which each application is dealt with separately and no simplified application procedures are approved . - ( sv ) it is an important report which parliament has voted on today .
the directive guarantees a high level of protection .
in the case of genes expressing resistance to antibiotics , the council ' s position makes continued research possible under strict conditions based upon environmental considerations and respect for the consumer .
labour euro mps have been at the forefront of protecting our citizens and our environment .
we have consistently backed proposals to ensure that the use of gmos and products derived from gmos are strictly controlled within the eu .
david bowe ' s report is yet further proof of europe greening up its act and putting the safety of our citizens first .
papayannakis report ( a5-0088 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the measure on the labelling of beef .
all too often , the governments of our 15 states think of citizens , particularly pensioners and the elderly , as numbers , people without an identity , a life story or a date of birth .
it is quite astounding that , given the gravity of the situation , today , so many years after the crisis , we still do not have an effective system of traceability in place .
indeed we also defended that point of view by tabling amendments in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy and the committee on agriculture and rural development .
the committee on the environment amended important points of the commission proposal .
pushing for clear labelling is the only way to convince our customers that food safety is top of our list .
lisbon european council mr president , i have taken the floor , for the last time today , to explain the way i voted on the conclusions of the lisbon summit .
with regard to social security , i would have preferred it if the decision had , at last , been taken to create a single european pension for the union .
in fact , a new wave of neo-liberalism swept through lisbon and gave the eu its marching orders in the global economic war .
and this was done with the complicity of all the left-wing governments present in lisbon .
to sugar the pill , the eu is promising us quasi-general access to the internet and cutting-edge vocational training .
in addition , it will be capable of improving citizens ' quality of life and the environment .
however , it is equally true that without active intervention this shift will widen the gap between the haves and have-nots .
these thoughts are reflected in our votes and the amendments tabled . - ( el ) the lisbon summit , which can only euphemistically be termed " an employment summit " despite the clamorous declarations that went with it , achieved no more than to take another step towards changing employment into employability , redefining the concept ' working person ' and destabilising labour relations and rights , to serve the celebrated ' new economy ' in the best possible way for big business , this being the new name for the old , familiar but still more unrestrained and harsh economic and social liberalism .
what the lisbon economic and social policy guidelines are promoting , what is in practice being prepared for working people and ' served up ' under a misnamed ' modernisation ' - intended to ' sugar the pill ' , deceive working people and reduce public reaction against the anti-labour and anti-grass roots economic and social policy of the eu - is a minimum level of poverty and not a minimum level of prosperity .
you will find them in front of you , unsubdued , uncompromising and unyielding , fighting for and demanding full and steady employment and a system of social policy that includes insurance , health , pensions , protection for the unemployed , real equality of opportunity , quality education and substantive professional training .
we express our solidarity with these african peoples who have paid a heavy price to our ruling classes ; and it is not even enough for us to cancel a debt that has already been largely repaid .
yet the eu persists in wanting to divide africa between the mediterranean area and black africa .
although the africans have managed to wrest a few promises of debt cancellation from a few eu countries , the eu remains opposed to the idea of a global cancellation of the third world debt , which means the people are starving daily .
like the eu-africa civil society forum in march , which brought together more than 80 ngos , we declare our opposition to the structural adjustment programmes and our continued support for the debt-cancellation campaigns .
as a portuguese person and as an mep , i regret that the portuguese presidency has confused the position which it took as a government in its bilateral relations with austria with the responsibilities which it must assume and fulfil when holding the council presidency .
as we were all here , apart from one political group which was also absent from a certain point , i must regret that the portuguese presidency chose to align itself with a political group which has the most recent totalitarian memories in this house .
she represents this institution and must act and speak in this house with respect for all the different positions expressed here .
however , if i were asked to give my opinion on the overall status of the situation in europe , i would have to say that i am somewhat confused and concerned .
personally , i find some of the decisions adopted extremely excessive , if not rash , such as , for example , the proposal to open the community to turkey - a country which i respect and which it is right to respect , despite its differences from the european community in terms of history , culture and politics and the concept of the state as well , quite apart from the issue of human rights - and these decisions are evidence of an organisation which is becoming increasingly more economic than political .
the europe which we europeanists dream of is a europe of states , and it should therefore be no cause for concern to anyone who , and rightly so , believes strongly in national identity .
there is no point in denying anything in this case either .
i feel that parliament will be required to take courageous , decisive action in matters much more important than a resolution , if , as i fear , the agenda is not extended , and if , in the end , as the current state of affairs would suggest , an excess of caution results in a conference which makes nothing more than cosmetic changes to the treaties and avoids any substantial modifications .
the integration of the financial perspectives into the treaty will thereby be a medium-term financial plan which will be agreed between parliament and the council .
let us remember that the financial perspectives procedure has brought budgetary stability to the european union .
nevertheless , parliament believes that the integration of the financial perspectives into the treaty will mean that , as well as stability , there will be sufficient flexibility to allow for a review of those perspectives when necessary .
this confusion will lead to conflict year after year .
with regard to the classification of expenditure , which this house has also long wanted to see , we must find an institutional point of balance which combines the european parliament ' s requests for a greater degree of codecision in budgetary matters with the defence of the privileged nature of certain expenditure which forms the basis of the european union ' s economic and social cohesion .
however , let us remember that , if what we want is an autonomous financial system for the union , we must at the same time create a fair tax system .
sooner or later we will have to be sufficiently progressive in terms of own resources as a basis for this fair tax system .
i am convinced that this opportunity for representatives of the national parliaments of both the union countries and the candidate countries to meet and discuss future strategies and the implications of the intergovernmental conference is extremely valuable and must not be passed up .
there is an excellent resolution on the table which refers to the many necessary reforms .
cooperation should be more flexible and each member state must retain a commissioner .
if the european governments do not change their attitudes soon , a treaty will be drawn up in nice which guarantees to cripple the union once it has been enlarged .
first number : 700 .
limiting the number of members of the european parliament to 700 would not be a cause for concern were it not that it would render our parliament less representative .
we must reaffirm that it is our parliament ' s prime and absolute task to represent the people and the peoples of europe in all their diversity .
second number : two thirds .
if a simple majority is good enough for the investment of the commission , then the same majority should suffice for a vote of no confidence .
the report proposes the year 2009 as the date for electing meps from transnational lists .
now this is a case of either or : either our parliament decides this measure is not a good one , which would mean abandoning it - even in 2009 - or , like the greens , it must admit that such lists are vital if we want to create real families of thought in europe , in which case this important political debate can begin by the time of the 2004 elections .
this timid igc 2000 can in no way represent an end result , but only the first step towards a constitution .
we have a framework agreed between nations and not one imposed on the nations .
this would be a disaster for my own country , portugal , as for other smaller or medium-sized member states .
today ' s statement by president-in-office of the council gama has inspired me with a little more confidence , but i still see no evidence of political will on the part of the other member states .
extending majority voting in the council must lead to codecision rights for the european parliament .
i would like to ask the council how it proposes to pull off the stroke of excluding a certain member state from taking part in discussions without any legal basis , when it needs this state ' s support in order to achieve unanimity in the council on treaty amendments .
i cannot support the proposal in recital 29 of the report to make the procedure for suspending a member state easier .
how i vote at tomorrow ' s vote on this resolution will depend on the outcome of the vote on these issues .
madam president , the igc should prepare the eu for the reorganisation needed to bring about the complete process of enlargement that is in hand .
it is important that the report proposes that closer cooperation should be facilitated .
the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party has recommended that the principle of flexibility should also be realised in the form of greater scope for cooperation for those countries that cannot or do not want to accept the union ' s statutes in their entirety .
in making its review the group of the liberal , democrat and reform party states that flexibility might lead to a larger concentric europe , composed of a federal core and a less integrated outer circle .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , what are the issues at stake in this intergovernmental conference ?
manifestly , the first and main issue is the quality of the decision-making process in the union .
but we have to acknowledge that undoubtedly we will also need this instrument .
that is what this parliament said when it first stated its position and i think that in a way we have helped persuade the community of heads of state and government to listen to our refrain .
but today i want to address those meps who see , behind this closer cooperation , the risk of too far-reaching consultation between the large countries .
to that end , let us authorise closer cooperation when one third of the member states takes part or is involved , and let us authorise this closer cooperation by a qualified majority , after obtaining parliament ' s assent .
however , the majority of my conservative colleagues have voted to reject the report and will vote accordingly in this house .
the conservative delegation regards many of the ideas in the report as centralising , syndicalist , unnecessary and backward-looking .
that is the nature of democracy and democratic decisions .
madam president , the report by the two rapporteurs is very ambitious , very ahead of the times , but it has two major defects , which ought to be corrected by the vote in plenary .
firstly , to generalise the system of dual simple majority voting is not the panacea of the future integration of europe .
a principle of that kind could induce public opinion in the member states and the national parliaments to reject that system for the most sensitive issues which are in fact exceptions to the general rule .
the underlying principle of " one man - one vote " is unacceptable .
it conflicts with article 190 of the treaty which provides that the number of elected members must ensure the appropriate representation of the peoples of the states brought together in the community .
on the contrary , if we want decisions proposed on the commission ' s initiative to gain wide support in all the member states , it is vital for them all to be represented .
the important vote we will be holding tomorrow will , i hope , enable the european parliament to put an end to this ambiguity and to make some adjustments .
only a more politically realistic proposal will have a chance of being taken into consideration .
madam president , at a time when the future of the european union depends more than ever on the balance and smooth functioning of our institutions , i want to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs , giorgos dimitrakopoulos and jo leinen , for the high quality of their work .
we all agree today that we must adopt institutional and political reforms prior to any enlargement of the union .
the time has come for europe to be a power capable of genuine political expression , of sustaining a social project and framing a common foreign and defence policy .
but europe will only be democratic if the people themselves determine the principles and rules of its organisation .
i am happy that the dimitrakopoulos report takes this aspiration into account in the framework of a constitutional process aimed at simplifying and clarifying the community treaties .
commissioner , i hope the representatives of the member states will embark on real reforms and take the measure of the issues at stake in the intergovernmental conference , so as to make this century into the century of europe .
after all , the igc should prepare the union for enlargement , and this enlargement will require the current member states to make sacrifices .
in addition , it should , of course , bring europe closer to its citizens , because the distance between brussels and our citizens is still far too great .
simply reducing a democratic deficit is not sufficient to improve contact with the citizen .
this is provided for in amendment no 162 .
once enlargement has taken place , closer cooperation could do a great service to a union containing a still greater diversity of member states within its borders .
to read the text of the committee on constitutional affairs , you would almost believe that the european federalists have already won the day : a commission that does not contain representatives from every member state , a parliament in which even the representatives of the medium-sized states no longer carry any weight , and a council that essentially bases its majorities on 51 % of the total population of the member states .
the text we adopt tomorrow will , i hope , be a different one , a more balanced text that is geared to continuing teamwork between large and small states , and which continues to respect the distinguishing features of our european peoples and states , and therefore does not make even more demands of the citizens of europe , who have enough problems with the degree of centralisation in brussels as it is .
mr dimitrakopoulos and mr leinen put forward a proposal in recital 29 to modify the procedure for suspending a member state in the event of serious democratic and human rights violations .
therefore let us dispense with hypocritical amendments to articles 6 and 7 of the eu treaty .
it is important that each country should have a member in the commission .
the commission must therefore be able to draw upon knowledge and experience from all the member states .
it is therefore important that the treaty should reflect the difference between civil and military cooperation .
a european military alliance should not , therefore , be created within the framework of the eu ' s institutions but between individual states .
finally , i want to thank the rapporteurs for a very good report and to express my hope that the citizens ' charter will usher in the new treaty .
we have to strike a balance between efficiency , democracy and member state equality .
above all , we have to be able to restore confidence of our citizens in decision making in the european union .
the balance between the small and the large member states must also be preserved in the council so that double majority voting can never be acceptable under any circumstances .
madam president , the constitutional questions we are debating today are highly controversial , as the vote in committee clearly shows .
in fact 12 members voted for and 12 voted against .
but i find it reassuring that so many members agreed that the length of the shopping list of proposals contained in the report ' s 52 paragraphs and 58 sub-paragraphs is exaggerated and that , as things stand , there is a risk that the intergovernmental conference will not take it seriously .
i want to dissociate myself from demands such as that we should cut my country ' s delegation in the european parliament by one third .
with 6 members it is materially impossible to follow up all the dossiers that are crucial to our country .
it is easier to divide up the work and to specialise in a large delegation : even if the largest delegation , comprising 99 members , was reduced by a third , they would still be able to share out the work .
for the time being , it is enough to propose that the seats in the european parliament should be allotted on the basis of a degressive proportional system , with a minimum number of seats per member state , while of course respecting article 190 of the treaty .
in the case of a qualified-majority council decision , it is inconceivable to provide for a simple majority of member states .
we must have a majority of two thirds of the member states , even if that means providing at the same time for a simple majority of member states representing a majority of the total eu population .
there can be no question of restricting unanimous council voting to decisions of a constitutional nature .
i hope the idea of not allocating one commissioner to each member state is well and truly dead .
finally , if we really need closer cooperation , it must involve at least half of the member states , otherwise we risk ending up with something like the french directory .
this document contains other incongruities too , especially in relation to the budget , which fortunately have no chance of success in the council and even less chance of being ratified by national parliaments that have any self-respect .
madam president , i wonder which of these is more serious : what the council has done by means of an intergovernmental method , once again , to reform the treaties and an extraordinarily limited agenda for this igc , bearing in mind the challenges facing us , or the report that we are going to adopt tomorrow in this house .
i believe that our report is more serious .
they are consistent with what this parliament has always demanded : more democracy and efficiency for the european union .
furthermore , in this respect , i believe that the effort of the rapporteurs in drawing up the original draft and seeking a compromise through the amendments will lead to a position which should be taken into account by this parliament and by the national governments .
madam president , i would also like to welcome the efforts of the portuguese presidency at the moment , and ask certain governments - i am not going to say which ones - to be a little bit more generous when it comes to european construction .
madam president , enlargement and its strategic , political and economic consequences for the european union cannot remain issues undiscussed by the public or viewed exclusively from the national perspective .
this is why the debate caused by the presentation of the european parliament ' s position on this promising intergovernmental conference is vital in understanding this new phase of european construction which is both risky and open to question .
we are pleased that this contribution from parliament stresses , as the main themes and guiding principles , the democratisation , efficiency and greater supervision of the european institutions , exactly where the respective deficits have been most felt and where the risks of disintegration , caused by the significant increase in the number of member states , were greatest .
we fortunately have the opportunity to improve these points tomorrow in plenary .
in my opinion , the grounding of the european project in the dual legitimacy of a union of peoples and a union of states is not reflected in the end result of this report ' s proposals .
at a time when the european parliament should be achieving a consensus which could act as an important reference , politically speaking , for the intergovernmental conference , our position is cause for regret .
i would also encourage you to ensure that the igc agenda is extended to questions which we regard as essential , such as the charter of fundamental rights .
i am also grateful for the many suggestions put forward for the report compiled by myself and mr dimitrakopoulos .
our role is to be the driving force behind further european unification , and that is the spirit in which this parliamentary report , which we are to vote on tomorrow , has been compiled .
i believe we have struck a balance between europe of the states and europe of the citizens .
therefore i hope that this intergovernmental conference will use the opportunity to at last restore the balance between the two institutions , parliament and the council that is , and to give parliament more powers .
i too feel that it is extremely important to strike a balance between the large and small countries .
there will be far more small countries than large countries in the enlarged union .
we have an excellent report for voting on tomorrow .
comments were made about the council ' s absence during the address by the austrian president to this parliament .
there is a clear boundary around the work of the portuguese presidency with regard to the functioning of the institutions and the role of austria in these institutions .
this was totally obvious from my intervention in this house when this issue was first debated .
within the european union we have met all the requirements allowing austria to act and participate fully in the european institutions and in their own functioning as a country .
we are therefore not confusing any of our positions and we refuse , due to a mere internal political provocation , to consider in this debate issues which have nothing to do with the european parliament and the european institutions .
as i pointed out this morning , they have sought the greatest possible convergence between the commission and the european parliament , in order to imbue these negotiations with the political impetus they need .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i just want to make three comments at the conclusion of this debate .
firstly , many speakers discussed the question of the equilibrium between what are termed the large and the small states .
the first option is one commissioner per member state on a permanent basis , all sitting at the same time , but with a commission which will one day have 30 or 35 commissioners , which will inevitably mean a hierarchy within the college .
the second option is a commission with one commissioner per member state , but not all sitting at the same time , which would mean the commission would remain more collegiate by nature .
that , ladies and gentlemen , remains our aim : to establish an equilibrium between the small and the large states .
second concern : the role of the european parliament as the driving force , as referred to by jo leinen .
as i said this morning , i really believe that we , and you , ladies and gentlemen , during your term of office , must spend some time explaining these european issues not just in your constituencies , your countries , but everywhere else too , to all the citizens , and as often as possible .
president napolitano proposed the idea of an interparliamentary conference .
of course we know that history will not stop at the end of the year 2000 and that there will be further institutional changes .
there is no way that later , when we have 20 , 25 or 30 member states , we will be able to do what we did not manage to do either in amsterdam or today , this year , for lack of political will .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
within the international community , either individually or through the european union as a whole , the european countries have made an important contribution .
this intervention is very important in tackling the problem of nearly 16 million people currently at risk throughout this area .
at this precise moment , the executive director of the world food programme is in addis ababa for discussions with the ethiopian government on this issue , which involves technical and practical problems in transporting the food .
we cannot separate from this issue the current political and military position in ethiopia .
however , these concerns are the centre of attention not only for the commission but also for the council .
unfortunately , sometimes we cannot react as rapidly as we would like to the various situations of humanitarian need and shortage .
i am standing in for my colleague , commissioner nielson , who would have liked to have been able to respond himself .
so we improve our capacity to deal with the humanitarian problems in spite of the difficulties .
the ethiopian government has asked for 821 000 tonnes of food aid , 25 % more than in recent years .
let me also correct an inaccuracy that is circulating as a result of an oxfam statement which claimed that the commission provided only 50 000 tonnes to ethiopia last year .
during that time nearly 40 % of our total aid to ethiopia has been in food assistance or food security programmes : some eur 875 million ' s worth , eur 250 million in the last four years alone .
i hope that letter gets wider circulation .
one of the things that she said in her letter - and i guess she speaks with almost more authority on this subject than anyone else - is : " the european union , together with member states , remains the biggest donor of food aid to ethiopia " .
we will continue to devote our full attention to this crisis until it is over , and our people in echo on the ground will continue to work tirelessly to get help to where it is needed .
we are looking urgently for alternatives , including better use of the port of berbera through rapid improvements to the road from berbera into ethiopia .
it is intensely frustrating that as millions starve , governments spend small fortunes on guns and weaponry to wage war against each other when the only war they should be waging is a war against starvation , a war for food security , a war against poverty and environmental degradation , a war in which we are morally bound to help them .
once again , we have pop stars and celebrities criticising the institutions of europe and national governments for doing too little too late .
it is amazing how quickly some people become experts when a situation like this arises and they can see some publicity , without knowing more of the background to the overall position .
we must watch the situation in eritrea and balance humanitarian aid there , if required .
i recently spent a week in both ethiopia and eritrea .
i saw children with serious malnutrition and in need of health care , as well as food and proper shelter .
we never seem to learn a lesson from the past .
put a freeze on the military trade , try to reach a peace agreement and meanwhile , deploy your military lorry capacity and manpower where they are needed .
the organisation of african unity and the european union must exert maximum pressure on the governments of ethiopia and eritrea to settle their dispute in algiers , and aid workers must gain safe access to the population without delay .
all we do is try to put the fire out with occasional aid , without a clear or decisive policy for prevention although we know perfectly well that famine in africa , and in the third world in general , happens periodically .
the gravity of the situation and the need for our solidarity with these people to result in exceptional and priority action lead me finally to ask the commission , and particularly commissioners patten and nielson , to keep us regularly and closely informed about how the situation is developing and especially the measures which they intend to use or are developing to ease this situation .
mr president , the ethiopian government has blamed the international community for not being sufficiently alert in its aid efforts to feed its hungry population .
the donors , including the european union , are said not to have kept their promises .
misplaced because this statement is made by a government which has been embroiled in an absurd war over borders with its neighbour , eritrea , for two years now .
mr president , famine and ethiopia : these are two words sadly etched in our memories .
in the horn of africa , which has become the site of every conceivable scourge , 16 million victims of famine , of which 8 million are in ethiopia , are awaiting aid .
nonetheless , in a region torn apart by a rearguard conflict , this crisis leaves a particularly bitter taste , because every penny paid to buy a gun , to buy ammunition , aggravates an already precarious economic , social and nutritional situation .
we must demand that eritrea and ethiopia freeze their military activities so that all the assets , all the logistical and human capabilities of these countries are put at the service of their peoples .
mr president , misery and death in ethiopia were on our screens four years ago .
the cameramen left but misery and death did not leave ethiopia .
famine , disease and death remain the hallmarks of these countries .
i accept the difficulties of the logistics but that means less than a kilo per person .
no time limit is given , in other words it is a kilo that has to last forever .
these measures are palliative .
commissioner patten ' s words made clear not only an objective awareness of the work already carried out but also an absolute awareness that this situation is intolerable and that the european commission will be determined on this issue , that it will take specific action and also closely monitor future developments .
as for the council , i should like to say that there is great interest in ensuring that situations of this kind can be permanently followed and monitored in close coordination with the commission .
it is important that an objective awareness is created within the european union that humanitarian issues must be dealt with in an increasingly committed manner and that the european union and its member states must , within the relevant international organisations , ensure priority attention for these issues .
dialogue with the african authorities is essential , as is dialogue with the sub-regional authorities .
if we cannot organise the international community within the global international organisations and within the more regional organisations , we will not have any response to all the crises which are systematically affecting the weakest countries in particular .
thank you very much minister .
the vote will take place on thursday .
it would seem far more logical to give this leading role to the european commission , notably commissioner patten , to implement this stability pact promptly and efficiently . . ( pt ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i must start by congratulating the rapporteur , mr lagendijk , on his excellent and important report .
between 1991 and 1999 , the total aid from the eu to south-eastern europe , including that from the eu as a whole and the member states individually , was in excess of eur 19.3 billion .
the lisbon european council confirmed that our overall objective remains the greatest possible integration of the countries in the region within europe ' s political and economic system .
as a result , the rapporteur concludes that it will be necessary to create a type of medium-term stabilisation and regional development programme .
most of the countries already benefit from trade preferences and the lisbon special european council confirmed that the stabilisation and association agreements should be preceded by greater asymmetric trade liberalisation thereby specifically favouring these countries in their bilateral trade with eu countries .
the idea underlying the stabilisation and association process is sufficiently broad and flexible to ensure a constant project in this area .
as with other comprehensive agreements , we therefore hope to be able to establish interim agreements covering the period between the signature and ratification of these agreements , bearing in mind that normally almost twenty months pass between these two events .
it is also worthwhile to remember that we already have contractual relations in the form of trade and cooperation agreements with albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia .
bearing in mind the request made by the local authorities , bosnia-herzegovina was sent a guide whose use will help towards preparing a viability study on negotiations for an agreement of the same type .
this work is moving forward at a good pace given , of course , that in this specific case , we must be careful and not create excessive expectations , as the reality of the situation there does not allow us to be overly optimistic in this respect .
the rapporteur also refers briefly to the stability pact on which we have been cooperating with these five countries and with the countries involved in the enlargement process .
we believe that reciprocal commitment is the key to the pact ' s success and i feel that this point was made very clear in the recent discussions at the commission and world bank conference .
the commitment of the countries in the region to implement institutional policy reforms and to create an environment allowing economic progress is a fundamental element in this pact .
in return , the international community is supporting the reform commitments and the donors and financial institutions have promised or mobilised a total of eur 2.4 billion .
of this amount , the european union alone , that is , the commission and member states combined , have promised or mobilised eur 1.08 billion .
the international community has financed in particular a quick-start package of eur 1.8 billion announced at the conference and has made available the necessary financing to accelerate the preparation and implementation of projects and initiatives in the short-term package .
in the meeting of 20 march , the council invited the commission to work on a proposal and to present this to the council with a view to including montenegro in the agency ' s mandate .
finally , the council has invited the secretary-general and high representative , under the authority of the council presidency and in full cooperation with the commission , to ensure the coherence of the policies for the western balkans .
the donor conference had a positive outcome , at least on paper .
we could have , and in fact should have , made a start on them in the autumn .
however , the wars in the region were more expensive in every respect than all the necessary measures will prove to be .
the idea of having a stability pact is a sound one because it is geared primarily towards cross-border measures , and thus to prevention of conflicts .
however , stability in the region depends to a large extent in most spheres on the eradication of criminal power structures and the construction of structures befitting a state under the rule of law , as is the case in bosnia for example .
the parties of karadzic and kraijnik gained the most support .
they have tolerated , or even promoted , parallel structures for too long .
efforts to initiate and undertake judicial reform , in bosnia for example , are in a state of disarray .
mr president , the report on the stabilisation and association process for the countries in eastern europe we are debating today attempts , and i believe successfully so , to formulate a stable political framework with which to address the balkan tragedy .
secondly : the boundaries of the states in the area are non-negotiable , even if it proves necessary in critical cases to adopt flexible forms of administrative autonomy and greater decentralisation .
positive results will emerge through development , democracy and prosperity .
i hope that the strong convergence of support for the lagendijk report achieved in the committee on foreign affairs will find the same response in parliament , and thereby express the desire of us all for a positive and stable outcome .
it is in fact the case that a gender task force has been established under working party 1 , but this has not happened because of any initiative from above but because of an initiative from below when a number of women have - if i may put it like this - approached the conference table and asked if it were not unreasonable for them , in one way or another , to have a central place in the whole of the reconstruction work .
it is a number of quite concrete , down-to-earth things these women have proposed , such as developing a proper programme for women and involving women in the general development plans .
for the moment , i will just note that the pact ' s real aim is to ensure the political and economic dependence of the countries in the area , to plunder their wealth and to overexploit their workforce .
and the question is this : what principle of international law are they basing their actions on ?
firstly , the stability pact for south-eastern europe focuses on regional cooperation in the balkans .
secondly , i consider paragraph 26 in the lagendijk report to be a fine idea .
we had a discussion on macedonia recently - i had the opportunity to draft a report on this , and would again like to thank those of you who supported me - in fact we were debating a stabilisation and association agreement .
but there is a new government and attitudes towards the refugee situation , economic development and , in particular , europe , have changed .
if we have a few cornerstones of regional development , such as macedonia , croatia , and hopefully also albania soon , then it will be possible to create a network of stability in south-eastern europe .
there is a final point i would particularly like to address : the donor conference , which was highly successful - i am grateful to the president-in-office of the council , but i would particularly like to thank the commissioner , both of whom helped to make the donor conference a success - concentrated above all on material infrastructure , and indeed that is what we need in south-eastern europe .
the european union must conclude that it should respect the frontiers in the balkans , and that is something quite different from its attitude towards milosevic .
we have states such as bosnia-herzegovina and albania in which the state is scarcely functioning , and then the two decisive challenges , namely yugoslavia , or serbia , where it is a question of doing everything we can to foster democratisation and develop a long-term strategy for the europeanisation of serbia .
secondly , kosovo , where we will never achieve success unless elected political structures come into being there , along with a long-term vision of what is to happen to this region , which will never again be a serbian province .
but that is not the only factor adversely affecting the stability pact , it is also suffering from a lack of credibility on the part of the international organisations and also the european union , which owing to a confusion of competences , wastage , and mismanagement , are displaying traits that would be dismissed as being typical of the balkans , were it not for the fact that this is happening in our own organisations .
we are losing a great deal in the way of credit and respect in this region , and this respect and credibility are fundamentally even more important than the promises of funding that are made and then not kept .
i truly believe we must put this situation in order in the european union , primarily by strengthening the commission ' s role in the matter .
secondly , it should be borne in mind that the regional approach is appropriate and important , and that it is important for the european union to play a guiding role throughout this matter .
finally , i would like to mention two other points : the former yugoslavia and crime .
puglia , for example , is a region which has to tackle crime organisations with a base in our country as well as elsewhere .
it is fair to say that our work for the lisbon council was very much motivated by the strong feeling that unless we can make a success of our efforts in the balkans , the whole credibility of our attempts to construct a common foreign and security policy will be shattered .
it is enormously important that we rise to the challenge in the balkans .
a point we made to the heads of government in lisbon in our report - which was very much reflected in the week that i spent recently in the region - is that the stabilisation and association process has to be at the heart of our strategy .
unfortunately , given the fact that our budget is based on commitments and payments , and not just payments unlike the budgets in almost all the member states , that is a particularly important factor .
we are not just talking about infrastructure in terms of hardware , we must also talk about infrastructure in terms of software .
that includes the rule of law , democratisation , the sort of civil society projects to which the honourable gentleman was referring ; and it includes education - a point i will come back to in a moment .
i announced yesterday agreement in the commission on a rapid reaction facility .
we will be coming forward to parliament in the next few months with our new regulation for assistance to the west balkans , which i hope will make it more rapid , more flexible and will , of course , have to include sufficient funding for projects supporting gender issues .
i can think of no single model of successful economic or political development which does not include at its heart sensible programmes to ensure that women can develop their full potential and play a full role in their communities .
i hope we are at last going to see more progress on the cleaning up of the danube , which is crucial for the region .
finally , the honourable member asked about the scale of our financial commitments to the balkans .
this year we will be spending about eur 540m in the western balkans .
it must be said that it does not involve huge increases in expenditure elsewhere but we have to provide support in a country like croatia where there is a good and decent government trying to do a difficult job in extremely problematic circumstances .
my final point : we are clearly talking in the balkans about building peace and security , not just in our backyard but in our front yard too .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0216 / 2000 ) .
as they deal with the same subject , questions nos 1 , 2 and 3 will be taken together .
question no 1 by ( h-0255 / 00 ) : subject : flagrant violation by turkey of the rule of law and human rights the leader of the people ' s democracy party of turkey , together with 17 other members of the party ' s leadership , has been sentenced to a three-year and nine months ' term of imprisonment for supporting the hunger strike that took place in solidarity with abdullah ocalan when he was handed over to the turkish secret services in kenya .
question no 2 by ( h-0286 / 00 ) : subject : human rights violations by turkey in december 1999 turkey became a candidate country for accession to the european union .
article 10 of the conclusions of the helsinki council presidency states that turkey must fulfil the general accession criteria , and in particular the copenhagen criteria , if it is to become a member of the european union .
turkey was named by the helsinki european council as a candidate country for accession to the european union .
this status places turkey in absolutely the same position as any other candidate country in terms of both obligations and benefits .
turkey is therefore currently involved in a process in which its situation must be assessed in light of the criteria of the copenhagen european council .
this accession partnership will define the priority areas for reform on which the european union considers that turkey must concentrate its efforts in order to comply , hopefully in a progressive , capable and complete manner , with the copenhagen criteria .
it is no mere chance that on the next day turkey ' s leaders declared that turkey has become a candidate for accession without attached conditions .
with regard to defining the pre-accession strategy and the accession partnership , turkey ' s problems will certainly be paid close attention , particularly in terms of respect for the basic criteria of acting in accordance with european standards .
but that cannot happen .
you see , belgrade can be bombed , but not moscow , beijing or ankara .
if there is no question , the council is not obliged to answer , only to listen , as you know , mr seixas da costa .
i recommend to all of you that you begin with the question before making a declaration .
secondly , would the council be prepared , in this whole process , to suspend or cancel obligations of the european union relating to the pre-accession process as long as the people we are talking about remain in prison ?
we must draw from this the appropriate conclusions about how the development in the turkish position on the cypriot issue may also affect the development of the turkish position in its approximation towards the european union .
on such a delicate issue as the interpretation of a serious situation , like the development in the cypriot situation and turkey ' s approximation towards the european union , we must be very careful in our choice of words .
however , i feel that i made it clear that there is a direct link between turkey ' s approximation process and its position on the cypriot issue .
question no 4 by ( h-0294 / 00 ) : subject : blatant persecution and violation of the rights of the assyrian-chaldeans in turkey tens of thousands of assyrian-chaldeans in turkey living in the south-east of the country have found refuge in member states of the eu after being persecuted by the turkish government which has destroyed many of their homes , closed and raised to the ground their churches and banned the use of their language and teaching in this language .
they do have a human rights dimension which obviously must be tackled - and we will be vigilant in this respect - but they are essentially administrative .
the council will be vigilant and the commission will also raise these issues during the pre-accession negotiations .
mr president-in-office , i cannot say your answer is satisfactory .
we are talking here about two very ancient peoples who have been subjected to systematic genocide by the turkish regime , a genocide perhaps not so impressive as in armenia , but just as effective .
i would like to ask whether you can be more specific .
question no 5 by ( h-0262 / 00 ) : subject : renewed tension in kosovo the results of the ' peaceful ' intervention by nato forces in kosovo are generally acknowledged to be deplorable .
the council accepts the urgent need to find a solution to the continued outbreaks of ethnic violence , particularly against the serbs , gypsies and other non-albanian communities in kosovo .
the council has urged all the political leaders in kosovo to adopt urgent measures to combat the escalation of violence , to reject expressions of extremism and to support unmik and kfor .
it is very important that the council manages to further develop the progress already made in the reconciliation between the ethnic groups and that resolution 1244 can be put into practice .
we are committed to the process of democratisation and coexistence in kosovo .
only responsibility-sharing by representatives of the minorities can lead to the construction of a multi-ethnic kosovo .
we should all ask ourselves whether everyone , particularly within kosovo itself , is interested in the existence of a multi-ethnic kosovo .
the council places great importance on the careful preparation by unmik and the osce of local elections to be held this year , including the provisions on voting by absentees and the participation of minorities .
in terms of supporting this process of democratisation and coexistence , the european union has been working together with other international partners to re-establish daily life for the whole of kosovo ' s population , whatever their ethnic background .
in addition to the important bilateral assistance given by the member states , the european community has allocated humanitarian aid for 1999 to 2000 to the amount of eur 429 million for the kosovar refugees , displaced persons within the country and those returning home .
the aid for reconstruction and the special financial assistance , including the support for unmik , will total eur 437 million between 1999 and 2000 .
unfortunately , at times the practical efficiency of these actions is not sufficient to end an unstable situation beset by tensions which we hope will decrease in the future .
mr alavanos , i believe it was clear from what i said and in fact you recognised yourself that the general objective of the european union and the international community is to respect the terms of security council resolution 1244 , particularly on the establishment of a democratic and multi-ethnic kosovo .
i believe that lisbon , the ancient olisipo , was founded by ulysses .
we must realise that the international community ' s position , which is not brilliant in terms of the practical application of these measures , is the only one which can resolve a conflict on which the international community was only called to act due to the total inability to find a solution within the former yugoslavia .
it was precisely the situation created in the former yugoslavia which caused this reaction .
the problem now facing us is to try and ensure that the structures created outside the democratic process , simply because this did not exist in the former yugoslavia , allow an approach of solely political action to be adopted in a democratic kosovo .
we will try to continue exerting pressure in this respect and we believe that renewing in some way the institutional organisation of civil society through independent elections may contribute significantly to this stability .
this mandate also includes the development of a phased economic recovery plan .
this means that the individual cases mentioned in the member ' s question should be dealt with directly by the un secretary-general ' s special representative for kosovo , who is responsible for the territorial administration of kosovo , or by the foreign minister of the member state in which the undertakings are established .
the council assumes general political responsibility for the eu ' s participation in unmik which is focussed on reconstruction and economic rehabilitation .
the council presidency has no knowledge of this issue .
each country is normally obliged to protect the actions of its undertakings within the international sphere .
each country has structures to protect its citizens and undertakings internationally and for this reason there are specific mechanisms which we all use every day in our international action .
the european union is not a country .
that is unless we reach a point at which national governments prove to be incompetent in protecting their own undertakings .
mr president , an essential element in the reconstruction of post-war society is always that recovery of the local economy should be as rapid as possible , so that it becomes viable once more .
mr andersson , to answer your question i should like to start by confirming that a coordinated approach at european level to the information technology and telecommunications sectors is essential for the future development of the european union .
in particular the special meeting invited the council and commission to prepare an action plan on e-europe , which will be presented , to the european council in june .
the idea of launching an agency devoted to information technology was presented at the lisbon european council in the document provided by the swedish government .
this idea was not followed up but it responds to our concerns and will definitely be considered and developed in the future .
you rightly make the point that on many occasions specifying these measures may create and worsen inequalities .
in the meantime , the governments have decided that the creation of a new structure and bureaucratic mechanism with high costs is not necessary .
they in fact consider that the structures which currently exist for monitoring this process are sufficient for this purpose .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , as an austrian i am extremely proud of the fact that the council presidency has focussed on development in the it sector .
this process has this national dimension of a commitment on objectives and it is therefore obvious that there are no financial resources for this other than those available in the budget of each country .
in the other dimension , in which recourse to the european investment bank is possible , there is a set of actions within the competence of the eu itself , which not only complements previous actions but also ensures greater coherence between the eu ' s programmes and actions in this area .
the commission has been extremely active in this field and the e-europe programme presented by the commission and whose action plan will be approved at the feira european council in june provides new guidelines for this area and a new reorientation of community policies on this issue .
as the author is not present , question no 8 lapses .
we all know the efforts made by the international community in this area and we remember the conclusions of the beijing declaration of 1995 on this issue .
greater involvement is needed in political actions , in the training process and in the administrative process in general .
however , it is the responsibility of each national government to carry out the necessary reforms of its own system of representation in order to guarantee adequate participation by women .
these issues are now being regulated at european level and recommendations are being made as a result of the treaty of amsterdam .
the helsinki and cologne summits specifically gave the portuguese presidency the job of strengthening this new protection policy .
the european union must be progressive .
women must clearly be involved in political decisions - also decisions with regard to peace - and i ask the portuguese presidency to make some reference in this respect .
bearing in mind these limits , it will be rather difficult , when we set out to assess the new common foreign and security policy structures in terms of defence , to say to the military committee or the military staff that half of their soldiers should be female .
this is because it is up to the member states whether or not they have female generals or brigadiers .
question no 10 by ( h-0276 / 00 ) : subject : participation of research partners from the developing countries in environmental research programmes funded by the eu the key to the development of the developing countries is their ability to participate in development work themselves both as definers of problems and as seekers for solutions .
the general objectives of this international scientific cooperation are also set out in this framework programme and include support for the development of a euro-mediterranean partnership and a contribution to the economic , social and scientific development of developing countries .
in december 1998 , the council also adopted rules on participation by undertakings , research centres and universities and on disseminating research results in order to implement the fifth framework programme .
article 6 of the framework programme authorises the participation by entities of third countries in specific research and technological development activities under the horizontal programme on the international role of community research .
in january last year , the council adopted the specific programmes for the fifth framework programme which set out the objectives and activities for the various categories of third countries .
with regard to mediterranean non-community countries , an indicative allocation of eur 55 million was established for research and development activities such as integrated coastal management in the mediterranean , including environmental aspects , water management , natural resource management , conservation and restoration of the cultural heritage , socio-economic modernisation and so on .
with regard to developing countries , an indicative allocation of eur 210 million was made available for specific activities such as those involving the adoption of innovations , the promotion of a sustainable relationship between population pressure , food safety and the use and management of ecosystems , the improvement of productivity and the prevention of damage to natural resources .
in addition , a grant system was created under a specific programme which allows graduates and doctoral students from developing countries and mediterranean non-community countries to work on european projects .
mr president-in-office , i thank you for this reply .
as the author is not present , question no 11 lapses .
question no 12 by ( h-0277 / 00 ) : subject : common defence policy at the igc there is a ' shortlist ' of proposals for the igc , according to which the conference will confine itself largely to ' institutional ' issues .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the helsinki european council authorised the portuguese presidency to establish the eu ' s interim security and defence structures as from 1 march of this year .
it is still not clear at this stage of our debate within the european union whether or not amendments to the treaty will be necessary .
the portuguese presidency will present a report to the feira european council in june giving an assessment of the state of progress and an opinion on whether or not these issues should be included within the igc .
mr president , mr president-in-office , european defence policy is at present being drafted , and different countries are involved in the task .
there are member states in nato and there are countries which are not in nato .
we hope to ensure that all the various cultures which exist within the union are compatible .
i would thank the council .
the crisis management and humanitarian actions specified in the petersberg tasks to which the helsinki european council referred are actions which may be carried out by the european union .
question no 13 by ( h-0283 / 00 ) : subject : violation of the right to freedom of expression the court of first instance of thessaloniki , presided over by a single magistrate , recently banned from circulation a book by the author mimis androulakis , describing it as irreverent .
i should like to explain that , under article 6 ( 1 ) of the treaty on european union , as amended by the treaty of amsterdam , the union respects a set of basic principles by reference to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms .
the underlying aim of this article is to establish a kind of political supervision over the actions of member states and to ensure that democratic principles and values are respected .
however , article 6 cannot be invoked for the purpose of any type of interference in the administration of the internal affairs of member states , particularly at judicial level .
the union has no competence to intercede in the exercise of legal power by the member states .
therefore , the council cannot interfere in the decision-making of the authorities .
the judgement delivered by the court of first instance of thessaloniki , which is a judgement of a legal body of a member state on a specific case , may be subject within the greek legal system to an appeal to the higher national courts .
having exhausted this recourse to the greek courts , there would always be recourse to the court of human rights .
mr sjostedt , the member states undertake to act within the framework determined by the treaty .
if we were to intervene in a case like this , we would clearly be transposing to the community dimension an issue for which there is a whole range of recourse in a country which fully respects human and citizens ' rights .
thank you very much , mr seixas da costa .
since the time allotted to questions to the council has elapsed , questions nos 14 to 31 will be replied to in writing .
and resumed at 9.00 p.m. ) address by mr klestil , president of the republic of austria mr president , you expressed the wish to speak today at our parliament ' s formal sitting .
i took part in the opening at the invitation of the board , and i said in my speech that i fully understood why people should fear a resurgence of racism , intolerance , xenophobia and anti-semitism - not just in austria but also in other countries and regions of europe .
therefore , in relation to the size of our country , we have offered more refugees sanctuary than any other member state of the european union . ( applause ) think of the waves of refugees that came from the east in 1945 , from hungary in 1956 , from czechoslovakia in 1968 and those that have come from former yugoslavia over the past decade .
in addition , austria has helped jewish emigrants from the former soviet union to travel to israel and other countries or to stay with us .
there have certainly been many shortcomings as far as our more recent history is concerned , and we are more conscious of them these days .
it is these very people - and this never ceases to move me - who have often continued to nurture a deep love for what used to be their native land , despite their terrible fate .
there is still a great deal of work to be done on the reappraisal of our past .
i believe that it is in the interests of all member states to commit themselves to obtaining a clear picture of the true situation in austria , curtailing criticism , endeavouring to make common cause , and helping to speedily resolve , by means of dialogue , what is a difficult situation for all concerned . ( applause ) i am also convinced that it is in the interests of the european parliament to see to it that work within the european institutions proceeds in the proper manner and in accordance with the law , thereby securing austria ' s full and unconditional cooperation ... ( applause ) ...
particularly in view of the major issues facing us , such as eu enlargement , reform of the institutions and the european security policy .
ladies and gentlemen , austria is a stable democracy and a functioning state under the rule of law .
therefore , working together with the leaders of the two governing parties , i have drafted a declaration which compels the government to uphold european fundamental values and principles of law .
i have declared before this house on two previous occasions , in 1992 and 1998 , that in view of its history and its position at the heart of europe , austria feels it has a special mission to make a committed contribution to the completion of the european unification and peace process .
there is no doubt but that austria has a special interest in the enlargement of the european union .
only enlargement will afford us the unique opportunity of creating an area of peace , stability and prosperity at the heart of europe .
we must also consider the position of the small and medium-sized states within the european union .
all the people of europe must play their part in this .
the second phase of the internal reform process began with the opening of the intergovernmental conference almost two months ago .
austria welcomes with open arms the european parliament ' s involvement in the labours of the intergovernmental conference .
bearing in mind the terrible conflicts that have plagued our continent over the past few years , largely in the south-east , it is also essential for the countries of europe to unite over the issue of a common defence .
before the european council takes place in nice , we must create the conditions that will enable the union to realise its ambitious goal of creating a european capacity for crisis management .
we know that the security of a union is indivisible and we know that the key to the future security of our own country is to work with each other and for each other .
that is what makes this process so unique , but also so vulnerable .
we must make quite clear to those who are already taking the idea of a united europe for granted , that it is of fundamental importance to the peace and stability of the whole of europe to press on with the european integration process .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the situation austria currently finds itself in is an unpleasant and grave one for my country and , above all , for its people .
however , it is also unpleasant and grave for the other 14 member states of the european union .
on a final note , allow me to thank you once again for inviting me to speak here in the european parliament .
the memory is of a time in history that tore europe apart because peoples , and above all their leaders , did not have the strength to react while there was still time . ( applause ) it is because of that duty to remember that we cannot accept the way that the extreme right is gaining ground . ( applause ) nothing would be more dangerous to a human society than for its collective conscience to weaken , for it to become accustomed to the unacceptable and for it to relativise the intolerable . ( applause ) thank you , mr president , for your replies a short while ago to our questions , which give us hope that austria can once again become a full partner in our union , which it has never ceased to be in legal terms ... ( uproar on the far right ) ...
but what we hope , mr president , is that it will also become so in our minds and , to tell the truth , in our hearts . ( loud applause .
the debate which we held recently on the bodies for collective investment in transferable securities and the reactions to the report on pension funds , which we will hear shortly , demonstrate the complexity and importance of these issues .
these two issues , the liberalisation of the financial services market and taxation , are dealt with in the action plan which is the subject of my report .
it is therefore appropriate to thank all the groups for their cooperation and confirm once again to the commission that it can rely on the active cooperation of the european parliament in the implementation of this plan , and we will not disregard our duties , but exercise them responsibly .
in my judgement , to sum up , it is the following : the liberalisation of the financial sectors and the updating of the regulations on supervision and control in order to achieve a european financial market which is at least as competitive as the united states financial market .
in order to achieve these two objectives , the commission proposes a truly arguable and risky formula : the speeding up of the legal process , which , in turn , would involve three actions .
firstly , a reduction in the standards which need to be included in a regulation or directive , that is to say , which require the participation of this parliament .
again we agree , but we know that there are difficulties in this approach resulting from the need to reconcile the objective of liberalisation with the objective of protecting investors .
personally , i would have liked to have seen a list of those national measures which , in accordance with the directive on financial services , are hindering the operation of the market in each country .
liberalisation must therefore be implemented in parallel with the increase in measures relating to control and taxation .
finally , mr president , my personal conviction is that , if we do not want liberalisation to give rise to distortions in competition and the flight of capital to more beneficial climates inside and outside the union , the correct operation of the market in financial services will not be possible without a certain degree of approximation of the laws which regulate savings .
in calling for different legal bases to be established for products and product providers that are defined in different ways , the main aim is to achieve legal certainty in europe and to afford better opportunities for future integration into the internal market .
using both of these , we can attempt to achieve full european integration .
let us , as participants in codecision on future directives , use tomorrow ' s vote to send the right signal to the commission , with a view to bringing stability to old-age provisions in europe and providing future supplementary pensions in the internal market that are in every sense worthy of the name .
mr president , i am referring , as you have said , on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , to the commission communication on the action plan for the implementation of the framework for the financial markets .
the more liberalised an economy is , the more necessary it becomes to rigidly regulate the financial markets .
the commission , in its proposal , on page 18 of the spanish version , after recognising the competence of parliament by means of codecision , in accordance with article 251 of the treaty , tells us that we should move towards very flexible procedures by means of comitology .
i believe that we need some very specific legislation and i am sure that the commission can count on the support of parliament in the drawing up of this legislation .
as the rapporteur said a moment ago , we cannot expect confidence on the part of investors , consumers and , ultimately , the financial markets , if they do not have a specific legal framework in which to operate .
for example , they would like to use funds in their euro account in country a to settle an account in debit in country b .
existing legislation , however , prohibits or hinders this type of cash management technique .
the commission appears to be somewhat apathetic in this regard , and seems to be concentrating rather on producing a directive on prudential rules for pension funds , which is easier to achieve but less effective in terms of decision-making in relation to the elimination of barriers to labour mobility and the coordination of taxation systems .
the legal bases are very important , and , clearly , different : in view of the various judgements delivered by the court of justice , pension funds could be governed by article 47 and article 55 , the removal of barriers to labour mobility could be governed by article 42 and the coordination of national tax systems by article 94 .
however , i would stress the need and the desirability to develop a single package , because this is the only way to achieve an overall framework which tones down the extreme positions contained in certain proposals for amendments .
i refer , in particular , to biometric risks , which are a very important factor but which should be dealt with on the basis of paragraphs 7 and 8 of the opinion drawn up by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
indeed , making cover for biometric risks obligatory would be likely to make the system very inflexible .
if 23 % of europe ' s population is over 65 years old today , this figure will have reached 40 % by 2025 , and the proportion of four working people to every retired person will have become two working people to every retired person by 2020 .
this demonstrates the pressing need to allow the development of supplementary self-funded high return pension schemes in the european union to usefully supplement state contributory pension schemes .
as we all know , our member states are working towards ambitious structural reforms , but it is also up to the european union to intervene in the area of pensions , particularly supplementary pensions , in order to facilitate the free movement of workers in the context of the single market , to establish a genuine single capital market and also to ensure that equality between men and women is respected .
with this in mind , the committee on employment and social affairs has been concerned to reconcile the security and efficiency of supplementary pensions for future pensioners as it is true that the guarantee of a high level of security for beneficiaries encourages healthy and desirable competition between european pension funds .
this is why our committee feels that the proposal for a directive on community prudential regulations applying to pension funds must be tabled and adopted as quickly as possible , bearing in mind our discussion today , with proper guarantees for the external and internal supervision of the funds concerned and for the calculation of their prudential commitment .
furthermore , in order to encourage the free movement of workers , we felt it essential to quickly improve the transferability and the acquisition of pension rights from supplementary schemes from different european countries .
this directive must in particular establish a framework to remove obstacles to the free choice of a pension fund , to the free movement of people , to the free provision of services and to charging double taxes .
we recommend a solution based on the principle that contributions should be tax-deductible , and that supplementary invested income should be taxed in accordance with the income tax law in force in the country of residence .
on the controversial issue of whether supplementary pension schemes should cover biometric risks , i wish to state that from the point of view of taxation , pension funds that do not cover these risks will not be discriminated against in relation to those that do .
that covers the general framework .
i am grateful to the committee on economic and monetary affairs for having included all the relevant conclusions of the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities in the motion for a resolution .
with regard to the action plan which seeks to deepen the internal financial services market , i would like to issue a warning about certain strategists who are attempting to hold the liberalisation of the financial services sector hostage , because the work that has been undertaken on the taxation of savings has not made the progress they would have wanted .
as matters currently stand , we should remember that a single market for capital and financial services can function perfectly well without tax harmonisation .
faced with proposals that confuse ambition and reality , i wish to emphasise that establishing a european committee for stock exchange operations is certainly not the number one priority and , as i have no speaking time left , mr president , i will give an explanation of vote tomorrow to say the rest of what i still wanted to say , because as draftsperson of the committee ' s opinion and as a speaker on the second report , it is really impossible to say everything in two minutes .
mr president , representatives of the commission and the council , mr kuckelkorn , ladies and gentlemen , firstly i would like to thank the commission for the sterling work they have done .
it is essential that we do not define the nature and scope of the risk coverage in a restrictive way .
instead , we should be open-minded and look at the issue from a wider perspective and encourage a framework which is based on liberal markets and vigorous competition between different types of pension schemes .
my firm opinion is that all the different pension schemes should be covered by the same directive in order not to protect certain types of schemes from competition .
consumers and employers must have the right to choose the most suitable form of pension scheme and , therefore , schemes covering biometric risks should be treated under the same directive as schemes not covering these risks .
mr kuckelkorn , no-one in this parliament is of the opinion that supplementary pensions should not cover the longevity risk , through the purchase of an annuity or by some other tool .
it is not the task of the european union to define the nature and scope of the risk coverage concerning other biometric risks .
increased freedom promotes the functioning of the capital market and has a significant impact on the growth of venture capital in europe .
i am committed to the idea that we , as the european parliament , should encourage healthy competition and the freedom of choice of the individual .
this must not only mean a single market for supplementary pensions , but the whole package of legislation concerning the financial services .
mr president , the socialists support the commission ' s efforts to establish a transparent and fluid internal financial services market .
the action plan aims to make the european market equal to the american market .
it is paradoxical in this context to note that some of the most ardent supporters of financial liberalisation at the same time oppose the euro .
the real introduction of the euro in 2002 , however , will result in transparency and competition , which will force the national markets to adapt more quickly than they had anticipated .
the problem is that the legislative bodies , both national and european , are taking a long time to adapt the law to reality .
the commission could make a useful contribution in the form of proposals simplifying and codifying the 11 or so directives that govern the banking sector , the 8 directives on investment funds , and the 21 directives dealing with the insurance sector .
there is not only a problem of coherence in the various legislations on the different sectors of the financial world , but in particular there is the problem of supervising and protecting the public interest .
john kenneth galbraith condemned the mistaken idea that there is any link between money and intelligence .
the lure of profit is such that the financial world tends to create a form of collective euphoria , which often leads to financial crisis .
i must congratulate the rapporteur , mr kuckelkorn , for the tenacity with which he argues in favour of supplementary pensions and for these to become in effect a second pillar of insurance for old age .
we liberals do not regard tax harmonisation as a prerequisite for bringing the single market for financial services to fruition , even if a degree of harmonisation may prove to be necessary to avoid harmful competition over taxes .
the euro has stabilised economic development and provided better opportunities to reduce the costs of acquiring capital , something which benefits both companies and private households .
mr romano prodi ' s statement today in a swedish newspaper to the effect that sweden could stay outside emu is therefore both surprising from an economic point of view and doubtful in terms of the treaties .
it is nonetheless important to emphasise that pension cover in europe is characterised by national diversity and that there is no need to harmonise the various systems in order to create a single market .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , since the single european act was ratified , the financial products market has been developing , despite the warnings of the greens , without regard to the minimum harmonisation of taxation on income from savings .
let me formally notify our british colleagues that this attitude is irritating the rest of europe .
unfortunately , this point has been changed out of all recognition by the amendments of the right within the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
the commission ' s proposal and both the reports we are debating today give priority to the needs of the capital market .
the principal aim is for workers , when they move to another member state , to be able to transfer their supplementary pension schemes and continue to pay into them without forfeiting their pension rights and with a guarantee that their accumulated pension rights will retain their value .
a full-value pension scheme covers biometric risks .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , safeguarding pensions is an extremely important task facing our age .
but we are quite deliberately proposing an open style of wording , as chosen by mr ferri for the committee on legal affairs and the internal market in points 7 and 8 .
that is why today ' s debate has in fact enabled us to embark on the further deepening of the single market , for in the single market and the euro we have , for the first time , the environment we need to get the financial service providers in the eu to operate in a truly efficient manner , and to enable us to take account of the idea of financial legislation and financial supervision .
at the end of the day , when financial conglomerates that are too big to fail come into being , not only does this increase the moral hazard of the institutes concerned , but the economic and financial policies of the states concerned are also faced with new risks .
it is regrettable that there is no direct consideration of consumer protection in the lisbon conclusions .
on the other hand , we are also in agreement with the participation of workers and the urgent harmonisation of the tax provisions .
nevertheless , we have to clarify the basic concept of pensions in a way which includes the supplementary pension schemes which cover biometric risks .
it is necessary to clarify , on the other hand , that the single system applies to every type of worker in the european union ; there are not only workers who work for themselves in the european union but also many cooperative workers , fortunately .
we therefore understand and support the regulatory and supervisory systems for the protection of the rights of participants , but we must put the emphasis on the areas where systems are still underdeveloped , in aspects such as providing information or implementing new plans .
finally , i would like to underline our support for the creation of a european pension fund with the participation of the different economic sectors and the pension providers .
mr president , the ageing of the population and the reduction in the numbers of people of working age , while real enough , have been put forward by the commission and other members as a reason to open up the way for pension funds for supplementary pension schemes .
the dynamic of growth and job creation has run its course .
the capitalisation mechanisms mean adapting retirement pensions to the single market and the introduction of the euro .
moving in this direction entails the risk of a system based on private insurance , which would gradually replace social security .
i cannot , therefore , approve this report which makes the commission ' s approach even worse .
the contributory system guarantees the rights of the employed and provides them with a pension , in the framework of national solidarity between the working population and the retired population , between generations , between men and women , between the public and the private sectors .
the objective should be to obtain new resources and to upgrading the purchasing power of retirement pensions from contributions which could be raised from taxes on financial products at the same level as those which apply to wages .
in the uk , as in the us , chile and singapore and , to a lesser extent , the netherlands , the burden on the state and succeeding generations has been significantly eased through the successful provision of supplementary second and third pillar private and occupational pension schemes , involving funds which grow to provide pension benefits following the retirement of the individuals .
i welcome the fact that there is widespread recognition in this house to extend these supplementary schemes throughout europe , even if there are disagreements over their precise nature and the way that the funds are to be invested .
it is even predicted that if the current trend continues some countries will be facing costs of up to 20 % of their gdp in the next ten years for their pension liabilities .
there are , of course , many risks with equity investments , but there are even greater risks to europe with stagnant economies .
growing pension funds will dynamise our economies by providing large additional capital funds for investment not only in the eu , but also in developing markets , with greater prospects for future growth and returns on investment for our pensioners .
in the case of defined contribution schemes , which give the investor a direct stake in the overall health of the national economy , there will also be a sense of participation in the country of that individual .
we need a light-touch regulatory framework , with bilateral tax agreements , which will ensure the portability for those eu nationals wishing to work abroad throughout the union , achieve a genuine single market in financial services and provide maximum choice to the european investor .
these finance ministers may then have to pay yet again because they will have to resign their posts , as punishment for their foolish actions .
that is why the debate as presented to us in amendment no 30 , on the freedom of choice of the insured , is a pseudo discussion .
mr president , this report seeks to harmonise supplementary pensions in europe .
indeed , it recommends the development of a truly single pension fund market by referring to the inevitability of resorting to capitalisation .
this report puts forward cynical arguments and seeks to give credence to the idea that only capitalisation would ensure better protection of low incomes .
this is in perfect harmony with past , present and future struggles , and it is in support of them that we shall be voting against a report that reduces this parliament to the level of a lobby for high finance .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are all in favour of securing future financing for pensions , having an equitable and stable inter-generation compact , and creating a workable , clearly defined three-pillar model that increases the individual ' s range of options and supports the mobility of employees .
we are not in agreement on whether supplementary company pensions supplement the first or the third pillar .
almost 90 % of the professional population in the private sector are in pension schemes which guarantee a wage-related pension .
this also includes small and medium-sized businesses .
it has been shown that it is precisely the compulsory nature of participation in collective pension funds which encourages these excellent results .
as for biometric risks , other speakers have already talked enough about this .
mr president , we are voting against this report advocating self-funded pension schemes .
this system restricts employees who want to guarantee a retirement pension for themselves that will give them enough to live on , to make their money available to investment funds , trusts , insurance companies or other private financial groups .
if we are to strengthen the second pillar then it must be made equivalent to the first and built up accordingly , that is , it must take account of the biometric risks .
but we should not establish a system today .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , supplementary pensions and complementary pensions schemes are of course gaining constantly in importance and in market value on account of democratic development .
only good quality products will be able , in the context of the second and third pillars , to fulfil a social function for the european social model .
unfortunately , we are forced to note that this is the case for the majority of member states .
needless to say , the objective of making employees more mobile and flexible within a large single european market and the euro zone will inevitably lead to interest in supplementary pension schemes .
this , unfortunately , is at the expense of member states which already have their house in order .
the supplementary pension scheme is based on collective feeling and solidarity .
the second point is that it is important that we provide decent pensions to enable citizens to move around europe .
the biometric risks problem means many different things to different people .
in almost all member states the pension systems comprise three elements : statutory pension schemes , company pension schemes and supplementary private pension schemes .
discussion is currently ongoing in all member states as to how we can reform the pensions system .
as has already been said repeatedly , the kuckelkorn report concerns itself with pensions in the second pillar , i.e .
what this actually means , for example , is that an employee who has a car accident at the age of 35 and becomes an invalid , receives not only the capital he has paid in up to that point but also a proper company pension , because he is the same position as if he had worked until he was 60 years old .
we must ensure that the concept of a pension is not just understood to mean a form of savings scheme , for a capital investment ... ( the president cut the speaker off . ) mr president , we are facing a difficult issue , as evidenced by the large number of speakers .
i believe that the systems we should pursue in europe should be based on two principles .
firstly , risks tied in with the second and third pillars should be sufficiently covered , because far too little has been said about this .
mr president , the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs makes it clear that the pay-as-you-go based , statutory pensions schemes in the member states need to be supplemented by capital-backed company or other supplementary pensions schemes .
i am in favour of compromising with " cooperation " rather than introducing the frequently obstructive concept of " codetermination " .
the commission welcomes the attention which the report pays to the need for capital markets to function to optimum effect .
we also have a few specific proposals in this respect .
firstly , we would propose the provision of better information on financial products for citizens .
thirdly , we would propose better harmonisation for the present national consumer protection rules .
the report will be made available shortly .
mr president , most speakers have expressed their thoughts on the issue of pensions and i would like to say the following on this matter .
in its communication on pensions , the commission has included proposals on three fronts .
however , this does not detract from the fact that investment and management rules can also serve the interests of people other than pension scheme members .
this coordination is a precondition for cross-border labour mobility .
more than anything , and this is also underlined in the draft report - rightly so - we should facilitate the transferability of rights from one member state to another , and this is also very much in the interests of employee mobility , of course .
this is also echoed in the motion for a resolution .
agreement on this approach would solve the problems of either double taxation or no taxation , which is what citizens and member states are struggling with at the moment .
however , i would like to point out that this issue , as is known , only and exclusively concerns the competences of the member states and , as such , falls outside the scope of the european commission .
these standards will differ in certain aspects according to the risks actually covered by the institutions .
i think that the european union would not do itself any favours if the subject of the directive were to be limited to biometric risks and i can honestly see no reason why other forms of pension schemes could not be included in the same directive , as i pointed out a moment ago .
in other words , there is still a large degree of freedom for the member states to arrange the pension systems within their own country as they see fit .
this freedom remains .
accordingly , we need to set up this legal framework within the european union which enables businesses and future pensioners to choose the products on offer within a transparent market by institutions which are adequately supervised .
in the final analysis , many remarks made in this meeting will also be of interest to mrs plooij-van gorsel , but since she has reminded me of this question , which , as i have already said , i would have addressed at a later stage , let me just say that this is of course an issue pertaining to the internal market .
the new strategy for the internal market comprises one hundred or so measures , many of which will be beneficial to small and medium-sized businesses .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
allow me to make two observations : the committee on legal affairs has not accepted all the suggestions of the committee asked for an opinion .
we were in complete agreement with most of them and they seemed to us to be very interesting , but we consider that this resolution was not the right place for them and that , by incorporating them , its message would be less clearly expressed .
that has been my criterion for recommending a vote in favour of the amendments presented in this house .
what was that message ?
the internal market appears to have become very small in this new globalised economy .
this document on the strategy for the internal market expresses this very clearly .
we need to put the emphasis on the principles of the internal market : the principle of proportionality , the principle of mutual recognition , the principle of control of origin .
we need to strengthen our infringement procedure , we need to consolidate it , make it more transparent and more accessible .
the second message of this resolution is that we need to make the present , rather disorganised laws , which the citizens see as a burden , into a genuine legislation , a coherent and clear framework of rules and regulations , without any overlapping or contradictions .
these contradictions are seen by the citizen and by industry as burdens , as a lack of clarity in the message regarding the direction we are taking .
lastly , the third message is a change in the business culture in europe .
to this end we will have to change certain laws , such as for example the european laws on insolvency in general , on the suspension of payments and bankruptcy .
mr president , once again the european parliament must express its opinion on the commission communication on the construction of the internal market , in this case , a new version of it .
a proportion of its content affects the competences of the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
this new version does contain specific measures and proposals .
let us then analyse the content of these proposals , albeit in general terms .
we notice a lack of such political courage in this document since the chapter on tax simply reproduces previous commission commitments , and even leaves aside some of the european parliament ' s proposals .
secondly , in relation to the rules on competition , the communication opts for deepening the process of reform underway , and this deserves our support .
mr president , as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs , it is natural that i should speak about the problems which the strategy for developing the internal market may pose from a social point of view .
we are starting with a european social model - which is a national model - and we are transforming the economic structure of that society .
we have had examples such as the case of venezuela where a strictly private system of public transport led to a profound social and political crisis in that country .
liberalisation presents other difficulties .
for example , when public services and public companies are privatised and those public companies come to be controlled by a private sector which in reality replaces the state monopoly with a private monopoly , liberalisation may not come about effectively at all .
liberalisation by means of privatising public companies may end up consolidating dominant positions and private monopolies which in my opinion may offer fewer benefits than a monopoly conceived in the public interest .
another aspect - which we referred to in the recent debate on the kuckelkorn report - is the need to coordinate social protection .
social protection in a single internal market cannot simply be left to subsidiarity .
the lack of action is related to the original conception of this policy .
the current council regulation no 3760 / 92 establishing a community system for fisheries and aquaculture , provides for derogations in respect of the internal market , notably in articles 6 and 7 , which allow derogations from the principle of freedom of access to fishing grounds , so that member states have the right of exclusive exploitation of their fisheries resources within a 12-mile coastal band , as well as a series of preferential fishing rights , through application of the ' relative stability ' principle , which distributes national fishing quotas .
these restrictions on the principle of freedom of action , which were originally intended to be temporary restrictions , have been extended and will be in force until 1 january 2003 as a mechanism to allow certain member states ' fishing industries to adapt to the rules of free competition in an increasingly open and globalised market .
therefore , the principles and fundamental freedoms enshrined in the treaties should also be applied to fisheries , in other words , the framework of the common fisheries policy should be brought into line with the general legal framework of community legislation .
our committee and , indeed , our group has been emphasising , since this new parliament started last year , the need to encourage the development of small- and medium-sized enterprises across the european union .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it has to be said that the european commission ' s current strategy for bringing about the actual realisation and improvement of the internal market has already been the subject of debate in this house on quite a number of occasions .
the introduction of the euro has already brought all the shortcomings of the internal market into sharper relief and it will accentuate them even more clearly in the future .
it is important to get the proposed measures underway quickly .
the promised dialogue between the commission on the one hand and business and citizens on the other is to be welcomed because the relationship between the commission , the european parliament and society should , after all , be interactive .
the e-europe initiative praises the use and expertise of internet and multimedia .
in order to build a genuine internal market , we should , more than anything , concentrate on promoting the interests of small and medium-sized businesses .
legislation must become simpler and must be written in a clear language .
mr president , i would like to speak on a point of order .
in the spanish version which i have there is no problem .
the spanish text simply says " remove the barriers imposed on entrepreneurs capitalising on company value through the issue of share options on the stock exchange " .
mr president , many thanks for giving me the floor regarding an issue which is very dear to the commission as a whole and myself , in particular , namely the new strategy for the internal market .
it would be an example of cutting off your nose to spite your face , if parliament or the commission were to say that they refuse to make further attempts to integrate the financial services if no progress were made in terms of the taxation package .
the commission is trying to flesh this out and this also means that those state monopolies need to allow for more competition in the fields i mentioned a moment ago .
in europe it takes far longer , even as long as five months , a ratio of 1 in 30 .
could i once again express my appreciation to the members of parliament and the rapporteur , in particular , for the important vote of confidence which we received from parliament regarding the new strategy for the internal market ?
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
it was not only these concerns that were highlighted by the various amendments to the original text proposed by honourable members of this house , but also those regarding a real policy in this area which , without infringing the subsidiarity principle , would ensure the quality and the effectiveness of the campaign to encourage language learning , as well as the diversity of target-groups , paying particular attention to the less favoured sectors of society .
for these reasons , and with my thanks for all the cooperation given to me by fellow members , by the portuguese presidency and by the commission , i am honoured to propose that we vote in favour of the joint proposal for a decision on the european year of languages , in the version contained in the compromise text , the main features of which i have just outlined .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , rarely has there been so much insight and common sense in evidence on all sides of this house , as is proving to be the case during this debate today .
as the socrates rapporteur , i am very much in favour of placing special emphasis on the importance of learning the language spoken by one ' s european neighbours , and of launching pilot projects on this very issue , in the course of the year of languages .
mr president , commissioner , the european year of languages 2000 is intended to achieve several goals , one being to promote awareness of the fact that linguistic diversity within the european union is part of our cultural heritage .
the exchange of information , the collation and processing of experiences , as well as the development of new , modern methods of improving access to languages and making it more efficient , is also one of this project ' s key areas of concern .
the main aim of this year of languages is , as has already been said , to urge the people of europe to learn several languages , both for their own benefit as the basis for improved understanding and integration within the european union .
the report has been prepared and agreement reached on more than 100 proposed amendments within a very short space of time .
two weeks ago , we reached agreement with the representatives of the council , the commission and parliament , but i am sorry to say that this was called into question on monday of this week .
we cannot accept this kind of behaviour , and we expect the council to give its representatives a mandate for negotiations , or to confirm to us that further talks will be necessary .
the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party is very happy to support initiatives which may create greater awareness of the value of linguistic diversity in the european union .
it is important that the eu ' s citizens should be encouraged to learn foreign languages early on in school and also throughout their lives .
finally , in the programme for the european year of languages , consideration is also given to the forthcoming enlargement of the union , something which we in the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party consider to be crucial to all eu programmes .
i come from a bilingual country myself and i have met some people in that country who never learn the other language , despite the fact that they attend language classes , sometimes for twelve years , and are still unable to speak another language .
i therefore hope that in the course of this year of european languages , research will be carried out into the best language teaching methods and , more than anything , how europeans can be encouraged to learn the language of the other europeans using a modern and appealing method .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the diversity of languages is a source of cultural wealth .
that is why we must convince parents , teachers and politicians that language learning must begin at primary school level , or even at pre-school level .
we must do more than simply argue in favour of the diversity of languages and call for differences to be respected .
this leads on to the debate on the official languages of the community and the recognised languages , be they national or regional , of all of today ' s countries and those of tomorrow , particularly in the context of enlargement , which , as we all know , is a cause for concern for us in terms of languages .
europeans must not neglect any language , nor must they forget the languages of the immigrants present in considerable numbers in our countries , or sign language which is the minority language par excellence .
i feel that a successful awareness campaign must , of course , present languages as subjects to be studied and as a mechanism for exchang but it must also remind people that languages are also a source of fun and a pleasure .
i would also add our own mother tongue to the equation .
the english sage , francis bacon , said that knowledge is power , so knowledge of the basic languages from which our modern european languages derive improves our general knowledge and reinforces european civilisation , which , besides its humanitarian value , is also a weapon for our survival and prosperity as europeans in a globalised economy .
it is the most important bond for a nation .
at the same time it is also the right of each citizen in each member state .
mr president , in addition to congratulating the rapporteur , i would like to highlight in this debate that the idea for this celebration originates from the council of europe , an institution with a particular sensitivity towards the cultural and social aspects of the old continent , which , with its initiative of increasing the knowledge and use of more languages by europeans , hopes to promote understanding and tolerance and bring citizens closer together .
in europe , many other languages are spoken , some of them thousands of years old such as euskera in the basque country or gaelic , whose origins have been lost in the mists of time , and others such as catalan , galician and alsatian , which is spoken right here in strasbourg .
furthermore , the learning of languages leads to an awareness of our cultural diversity and contributes to the eradication of xenophobia , racism and intolerance , which forms part of our community objectives .
i would also ask , in this era when emotions often take precedence over good sense , that we do not support projects which are aimed at exclusion and the use of language to support positions which often seek to cause divisions between people , when the objective of this programme is to unite people .
i am referring , for example , to ladino and yiddish .
of the 150 languages which are spoken in europe , we should make a list of those which are only transmitted from mothers to their children , which are only spoken in a domestic setting and which , currently , with the invasion of the media and with the official use of languages in schools , will have very few years to live .
mr president , i should like to address my remarks on languages to my fellow members , of course , but also to our interpreters , who enable this parliament to function , to the rapporteur , of course , not for his work as rapporteur but because he is also a poet in this parliament and , moreover , as i have discovered , one who speaks my mother tongue perfectly .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it is a sound report , that much i can say .
languages reflect the diversity of the european union .
in some parts of our region , for example , children learn the languages of our neighbours as early as the kindergarten stage through play .
it is to some extent a laboratory which could serve as a basis for others who would like to do what we all wish to do during this european year of languages , which is to promote the study of one ' s mother tongue and of two additional languages .
on the other hand , we are at a crucial stage , as there is the prospect of achieving agreement at first reading between the parliament and the council .
this leads me to the second great aim of the european year of languages : we must encourage the public to learn languages and to do so throughout their lives , starting at a very early age , in nursery school .
the european year of languages is also a framework , which will enable information to be disseminated on how to learn languages .
methods have moved on from the traditional ones and much work has been done in this area .
the year will be organised in close cooperation with the council of europe , which is extremely significant .
many fruitful meetings have already taken place and the ongoing exchange of information between our respective departments is vital to the implementation of this year of languages .
it is important to emphasise the fact that the amendments voted for by the european parliament must be acceptable to the council if agreement is to be reached at first reading .
you also know , however , how sensitive this issue is for certain member states .
i think that the definition of target languages as stated in article 1 , amendment no 15 , provides sufficient scope , whilst enabling everyone to agree on it .
and i am relying a great deal , believe me , on the debates that will take place during 2001 , the european year of languages , because these debates will enable us to overcome the problems and fears which still exist with regard to minority languages .
i also hope that at the end of this year of languages , their will be no more resistance to languages , because , as has been very clearly stated , there are no small languages , there are only mother tongues , which are all great languages .
i am therefore relying on the debates to help me prepare future activities in this area , and i would also draw your attention to the additional recitals which address this concern : amendments nos 2 , 3 and 4 .
the recitals also enable us to take account of other specific concerns , as many of you have pointed out , such as classical languages and cultures , which will not be forgotten during the european year of languages .
the commission ' s draft text proposed a limited number of studies with a direct bearing on the organisation of the european year of languages .
the members of the european parliament have proposed a great many additional studies .
it goes without saying that the field of language learning is in constant development , which is why these studies are necessary .
on the other hand , the council is not prepared to accept a long list of studies which could not all be carried out under the european year of languages .
my feeling is that we all agree that this point should not become a reason for agreement not to be reached at first reading .
given its awareness of the importance of languages in the process of european integration , the commission has committed itself to developing these issues when implementing its programme of studies , which will be carried out in the framework of , and in accordance with the procedures of , the various programmes and activities which can be enlisted for this purpose in the spirit of article 8 of the proposed decision .
the promotion of bilingual publishing , mentioned in amendment no 41 , is covered by the culture 2000 programme , and i shall see to it that projects undertaken in this area are given the priority that they deserve .
finally , it is true that enlargement of the european union and the growth in the number of official languages will have certain implications , as amendment no 36 suggests .
nevertheless , this issue is beyond the remit of the european year of languages and , furthermore , is a matter for all three political institutions .
i am therefore committing myself to doing everything in my power to encourage discussion on this point in the appropriate setting , whist hoping that i can count on the necessary support of the european parliament .
lastly , i would like to say a few words about the amendments presented in plenary .
amendments nos 43 and 12 have the same content , but the wording of amendment no 43 is better .
nevertheless , we know that the council will not accept amendments nos 47 , 48 , 49 , 50 and 51 , which relate in particular to regional and minority languages , since we have already discussed this in the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport .
as these amendments would jeopardise the chances of agreement being reached at first reading , i cannot accept them .
to sum up , mr president , it is important that we quickly reach agreement so that we can launch the european year of languages .
i am sure that they will be incorporated into the text , as far as possible , and i shall also take them into consideration in other programmes and activities where we have the opportunity to encourage the promotion and learning of languages , not only in 2001 , but well beyond that , because the year 2001 will be only the starting point in the campaign we are fighting for all mother tongues to be recognised at european level .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
although some prayers remained unanswered , the parliamentary delegation could be satisfied with eur 520 million for the seven year term , with a review clause on the accession of the candidate countries in central and eastern europe .
the negotiations for the youth programme have dragged on for around one and three quarter years .
we have drastically amended the original proposal by the commission , which envisaged combining the existing programmes " youth for europe " and the european voluntary service in one five year programme .
we wanted to simplify administrative structures and do more to develop disadvantaged young people .
the commission adopted a raft of amendments put forward by parliament , however the council was unable to reach agreement on a common position concerning eur 350 million for a five-year programme .
at second reading , the european parliament concentrated on 13 amendments , focusing largely on the budget , on a seven-year term following the example of socrates and leonardo , and on a flexible age limit and social protection in matters of comitology .
at the second meeting of the conciliation committee we were able , following difficult negotiations , to reach agreement on all issues .
but , as rapporteur , i welcome the fact that the youth programme is enabling us to send out a signal that the programme really is open to all young people .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in one month ' s time , on the 9 may 2000 , parliament will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of robert schumann ' s declaration .
the new programme closes the gap , as it were , between the youth and educational programmes that are already running .
parliament , as well as the commission and the council , saw that there was a need for this programme , even if , as the rapporteur has just said , considerable hurdles had to be overcome in relation to the financial framework .
the new programme is more comprehensible and more citizen-friendly .
but the fact that we are still here so early in the morning is a tribute to the rapporteur ' s work on this programme and , indeed , that of the commissioner and the portuguese presidency - which has shown itself to be committed to youth , to the voluntary service and to education in its broadest sense .
we are delighted that some candidate countries of central and eastern europe will benefit as well .
we can be pleased with our efforts and pleased with this report .
through increased communication between young people in europe , the programme will indirectly help combat xenophobia and increase respect for human rights .
finally , the community ' s action programme for youth also gives consideration to the forthcoming enlargement of the union , something which we in the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party believe to be of crucial importance to all eu programmes .
it is a very good report .
youth is the sector in our community that is so often ignored .
the new youth programme emphasises the developing links with the youth of entrant countries .
the bridges built between youth will be the bridges that eventually unite europe .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i bid you good morning !
voluntary activities in the environmental and cultural spheres help people to learn what europe is really all about and also to learn other languages .
this new programme has enabled us to consolidate and improve on previous youth activities .
we welcome the exchange programme because it reinforces mutual trust between the young people of different countries and encourages mutual tolerance , and a willingness to cooperate and show solidarity .
what goes on in the heads of young people of today has a special resonance for the future development and functioning of the european union and european consciousness .
i am emphasising these two aspects because , as mrs pack has already said , the sanctions against austria are having most impact on cultural organisations , and the educational and scientific spheres , as well as on scientific cooperation .
the youth programme is crucial to the european union , as you have all already said , because it is a unique programme , in which all young people , without distinction , can participate .
in the youth programme and in the way it is implemented , there will be no sanctions against anyone , and that includes young austrians , who will not be discriminated against .
this programme will encourage and consolidate the continuation and development of innovative actions at community level and will help to improve the quality of the action undertaken on behalf of young people .
it therefore represents a useful instrument in assisting a policy of cooperation and will contribute to the process of european integration .
in addition to ensuring that the programme is effectively implemented , i wish to make a commitment before this house that i will encourage a process of structured and regular cooperation with member states , in order to work towards drawing up action plans that are up to the task of the challenges , and without which the programme would be less effective .
i would now like to clarify the role of this white paper and the role of political catalyst that youth policy must play in the future .
i hope to prepare the white paper on the basis of broad consultation with the different parties concerned and when i say the parties involved i mean above all young people .
that is why , at the youth council on 23 november last year , i proposed to the member states ' ministers for youth that they hold national meetings of young people during the first half of 2000 .
this proposal was very warmly received by all the member states and these meetings are being organised at the moment .
most member states have already set dates for them and most of them have also assured me that these meetings will be open , with the participation of all possible parties including , of course , members of the european parliament .
these meetings must allow young people to play an active role and to assert their aspirations , their expectations and their opinions , but also their recommendations for political action in the areas that affect them .
the various national meetings will culminate in a huge european meeting which will be held at the beginning of october , under the french presidency .
we will also rely on the various studies on young people , which will be financed under the youth programme , and the study , already underway , on the status of young people and the situation of youth policy in europe .
lastly , i would like to include the european parliament in this exercise .
to conclude , i would like to emphasise the fact that the consultation process , particularly with regard to young people , will not be a one-off exercise , because the publication of the white paper will constitute the second stage of this dialogue with the parties involved , and this is a dialogue that i would like to see established on a more permanent basis .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
this is particularly true with regard to the shaping of the european single market , a context in which we require statistical data which is comparable and equivalent between the different member states .
i would even go so far as to say that this is even truer , if that is possible , in view of the enlargement of the european union , a process in which the availability and comparability of information , particularly statistical and economic information , must be treated as absolutely crucial .
i do not intend to dwell on the qualities of esa 95 - the european system of integrated economic accounts - nor on the progress which it represented in relation to the previous 1979 system , an issue which i spoke about in the house at the time of my report on the proposed council regulation amending the regulation on the application of the protocol on the excessive deficit procedure .
what should really be underlined is that , in my view , we must firmly support a commission proposal which , essentially with regard to an issue as serious as the budgets of the member states , is inclined to give priority to the revenue actually collected rather than criteria such as the amounts due in the field of taxes and social contributions .
this course of action by the commission , which some people attack because in short they believe it does not once and for all end the practices of concealing deficit , in no way intends to distort the assessment of the amounts in the national accounts but , on the contrary , to arrive at the same figure in two different ways .
one , in my view the more correct way , or at least the more academic way , is the criterion of income , with the corresponding provision concerning collectability , set out in paragraph ( a ) of article 3 proposed by the commission , and the other , set out in paragraph ( b ) of article 3 , is the criterion of cash receipts adjusted to take account of the time difference between the activity and the cash tax receipt at the end of the financial year .
nevertheless , we believe that , in order to encourage member states to gather statistical data , even aggregated data , concerning taxes on products , article 3 of the commission proposal should deal with this issue by establishing a similar mechanism for recording and adjusting such taxation .
i would like to repeat that the proposal rightly stresses that we should give priority to the revenue actually collected rather than the taxes and social contributions due in the member states , and allows these two methods of calculation , which make it possible for the systems used by the member states to be adapted .
finally , i would also like to stress that , consistent with our opinion that the commission proposal is more an amendment than a clarification and that , moreover , it affects basic concepts , instead of using the procedures under article 2 ( 2 ) of council regulation 2236 / 96 of 25 june 1996 , for the adoption of changes to the methodology intended to clarify and improve the content of esa 95 , use should instead be made of the introduction procedure set out in annex a of that regulation .
on closer examination , it now appears that the information recorded on taxes and social contributions is not as precise as was hoped because it does not always correspond to the amounts actually collected or collectable for a particular assessment year .
the ppe-de group agrees with the commission proposal in this regard .
the member states also need time to adjust to new rules .
we have therefore tabled an amendment on behalf of the ppe-de group and would ask our colleagues in the house and the commission as well to support this amendment .
i should have liked to hear the commissioner confirm whether the commission is indeed drawing up a proposal to amend article 8 of the esa 95 regulation to the effect that all the member states will , in the future , have an adequate legal basis to use esa 95 for the calculation of the third source of own resources , that is to say , vat .
mr president , the commission ' s initiative on presenting this regulation intended to unify the principles for recording taxes and social contributions is very appropriate .
it is true that , in accounting terms , both the cash receipt criterion and the income criterion can be allowed , but it is also true that the former allows for less juggling of the figures intended to distort the true accounts situation of a country .
it is true that the use of those systems has allowed , for example , certain countries to fulfil the maastricht criteria , but it is also true that their abuse can distort the picture of a country ' s true accounts .
the rapporteur mentioned a debate which occurred in spain which , in short , resulted from the government claiming esp 750 000 million in 1997 as social security income , which was theoretically owed but which was clearly never going to be collected .
it is perhaps for this reason that the spanish members from the ppe group have presented certain amendments and have tried to delay the approval of this report .
we therefore approve of the commission ' s proposal but we do not approve the ppe ' s proposal , which is intended to delay the entry into force of this regulation , or the amendments of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , which , since it considers that the regulation amounts to an amendment rather than a mere clarification , in reality delays its entry into force .
as any expert knows , the estimations in accordance with esa 95 require breakdowns which affect no less than 60 accounting categories .
secondly , this profound and complex change must be done in a gradual way .
at the end of the day this would lead to a fair change because a sudden change would prejudice those states which have adopted the criterion of income , in other words , those which have , to a greater extent , complied with the regulation which entered into force in 1999 .
we are being asked to change a regulation which entered into force a few months ago .
the ppe-de ' s amendment asks for the change to be introduced gradually .
mr president , i think we would all agree that , if we are to run the community properly , we need a high-quality statistical base within the community and the applicant countries .
so far as the transition period is concerned , many of us will have sympathy with the need for some form of transition because , clearly , if you amend the regulations in such a way that you move from a system which is being used over a long period of time to a completely new system some time will be required .
however , i hope that the countries of the union will not use this as an excuse , if it is passed , but seek to implement the new system as rapidly as they can - in other words , two years should be regarded as an exception and as a maximum rather than as the normal ration for the job .
the commission is very happy that our proposal has received broad support and is happy with the report adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs , which i will comment on shortly .
the rapporteur stresses in his report that the objective of the proposal is to arrive at the same figure , regardless of the statistical sources used , and in reality this is our objective .
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has approved eight amendments and the commission can accept amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 7 and 8 without any difficulty .
the commission would prefer not to maintain amendments nos 4 , 5 and 6 .
with regard to amendment no 9 , the issue has been studied by the directorate-general of ecofin and by eurostat and , having analysed the problem in detail , i can tell you , mr garcia-margallo , that , in principle , exceptions , in statistical terms , must only be allowed where a member state is not technically capable of providing data .
this has been the case , for example , with the exceptions allowed for certain member states within the esa 95 regulations .
in the case in question , there are no technical difficulties to justify that exception , and the regulation has been substantially amended throughout its negotiation to give it more flexibility , in such a way that , in our opinion , all the difficulties raised by the different member states can be resolved within the margins of flexibility which the regulation allows .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m .
under constant attack since its adoption , this regulation eventually led to several wto rulings against us , the latest in april 1999 .
as we know , this system has already been attacked by the majority of operators and producers from all geographic areas .
the same applies to many acp countries , traditional suppliers .
it is impossible for these producers to maintain fair competition with the great producers and operators in the international network .
the margin of manoeuvre is technically narrow , but the choice of a reform model is political .
as there are no objective reasons for choosing ' tariff only ' , i propose to retain the first option in the commission ' s proposal , the ' transitional ' option , and implement it without moving on to ' tariff only ' , but with a review of the operation of this reformed com at the end of a ten year period .
in any case , accompanying measures are essential to ensure the permanence and viability of community and acp production .
i hope parliament will follow the line proposed by the committee on agriculture , but we also need the understanding of the council and the commission .
ladies and gentlemen , as we now have a new report before us and a new team here in the chamber , i must repeat what i said at the beginning .
firstly , with regard to the international obligations of the european union , not only towards the acp countries , but also within the world trade organisation .
in fact , in the commission ' s current negotiations , it appears that the main suppliers would prefer this system .
on the other hand , this is the system which best defends the principle of multifunctionality of agriculture , protects the european union producers , also protects the developing countries , with whom we have a very special relationship , is sensitive to the protection of fundamental social regulations and the protection of the environment and , lastly , it is the system which best obeys the principle of consumer protection .
for all these reasons , my committee voted in favour of mr dary ' s draft report .
but while i share the desire to put an end to a trade war which is poisoning transatlantic relations , this cannot be done at any price , abandoning without compensation the principles of justice and solidarity which guide the action of the european union .
i am sorry , too , that we have not fought for the retention of a specific quota for the acp countries which alone guaranteed them access to the market .
but let us give them time .
let us encourage organic farming and , in ten years , believe me , the price of african bananas will have fallen to the level of dollar bananas .
in this proposal , the commission not only renounces the defence of community interests and the interests of the acp countries but has also , in my opinion , abandoned the minimum degree of neutrality required .
the world trade organisation condemned the system of licences in force , which must undoubtedly be modified .
it is in defence of our obligations and commitments to the acp countries that the amendments have been presented on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation .
the banana controversy is a good example of how hard it is to reconcile the interests of the fifteen member states , the union , the acp banana producing countries , european consumers and our trading partners .
i congratulate the commission for striving to reach a compromise that has regard to the various interest groups .
mr president , the wto has challenged our community regulation on bananas several times and each time we have had to redefine the content of this com and suffer the burden of the fines imposed on us as reparations for damage caused .
however , in the light of these four concerns , mr dary ' s proposal is entirely apt , at least that was the feeling of parliament ' s committee on agriculture and rural development in unanimously supporting it , a quite exceptional occurrence for such a sensitive subject .
for my part i am convinced that the approaching start of the next wto cycle should mean we can handle this issue positively in a more global context and for that i am counting on the commission ' s determination .
as we all know , there are many competing claims - the claims of acp banana producers , community banana producers , eu businesses which have been hit hard by us sanctions , the eu 's role and standing in the wto and , of course , the rights and interests of european banana consumers .
the commission 's proposal is a compromise between those who demand an immediate move to a tariff only system and those who wish to ignore the wto rulings and stick with the flawed regime as it is .
that is why the majority of the eldr group supports the commission 's proposal to continue a tariff-rate quota system for a transitional period before moving to a definitive tariff only system .
that can be done by rejecting this report and supporting the commission 's compromise proposal .
mr president , the common organisation of markets in the banana sector has allowed this sector , which is fundamental to the sometimes fragile economies of the acp countries and the outermost regions of the european union , to function .
less than seven years have passed since the entry into force of the com on bananas , and the commission is now proposing a profound modification of its operation .
the commission proposes a quota of 353 000 tonnes and a possible increase in the event of a rise in demand .
lastly , special attention should be given to the development of the situation of the community and acp producers , who are already in a vulnerable position and will be even more so in a context of intense and open competition .
the commission must carry out a report in advance assessing the consequences of the application of any modification of the system in order to provide the due compensation for its negative effects on prices and incomes as a result of the increase in the global income in question .
but , in fact , almost 60 % of the 4 million tonnes of bananas consumed annually in the european union are supplied not by community or acp producers , but by latin american third countries where the american companies run vast plantations under production conditions characterised by scant regard for social and environmental concerns .
in traditional acp countries and union countries , which already have only a minority share of the european market , bananas are grown in small production units , usually family concerns , and in areas where there is no real possibility of alternative occupation .
so they represent an essential element in the balance of the economic and social fabric of these fragile territories .
unfortunately , that certainly seems to be the route the commission has chosen , with a short and dangerous transitional system and an exclusively tariff - and uncertain - formula as from 2006 , which would imperil both acp and european production and put the community banana market under the control of a few large operators , able to set the profit margins through the commercialisation of dollar bananas .
so the commission ' s proposal is in line with neither the interests of community and acp producers , nor the long-term interests of european consumers , because it actually encourages the emergence of a far from competitive market situation .
that is why it has been unanimously rejected not only by our committee on agriculture and rural development , but also by the acp-eu joint assembly and the french parliament .
so i hope our parliament will follow the committee on agriculture , and the european commission will feel obliged to make new proposals to us , more in accordance with european interests and our cooperation with the acp countries .
the united states wants more .
but we are also getting bogged down in technical proposals .
thus the commission proposes , before surrendering totally to the united states , a six-year transition period when , in essence , there would be three quotas , including the acp quota and the dollar quota .
we have to choose : either the canaries , madeira and the antilles - or chiquita .
we have to choose : either africa and the lome convention , or the wto .
we have to choose : either europe ' s social policy and human rights , or the multinational slave-drivers who produce with social costs totalling 8 % instead of the 42 % social costs in the canaries , madeira or the antilles .
this is about protection of financial interests , because when olaf disputes a few centimes of members ' taxi expenses yet is not interested in the annual present of two billion dollars from chiquita , there is a problem .
when the united states alters its policy , we will discuss the mere 191 million for bananas .
when the united states stops cheating for the benefit of boeing , kodak , cargil and ford , we will discuss bananas .
we must talk about iraq , echelon , serbia ; put everything on the table .
the lack of competitiveness of eu banana production cannot be allowed to justify a refusal to accept uniform and non-discriminatory access to the european market .
mr president , commissioner , it falls to me to summarise the problems of the com in bananas in just a few minutes .
this is a tropical fruit marketed in the northern hemisphere and its distribution is also a fundamental part of north-south cooperation .
the real question we face is whether or not the european union can succeed in organising , within its own market , a juxtaposition of flows from the producer regions of europe , the acp countries and latin america .
such a development would be contrary to the actual purpose of regional policy and the common agricultural policy - the two pillars of the european union - and we do not want that under any circumstances .
mr president , the defenders of the interests of the multinationals in this parliament have not studied the subject of bananas properly .
in fact , so far the world trade organisation has only declared two extremes incompatible with international commercial law .
the second refers to the incompatibility of the exemption in favour of acp countries within the community system .
in other respects , the community system is wholly in accordance with community rules , international law and the rules of the world trade organisation .
mr president , commissioner , the european commission ' s proposal on the reform of the banana sector is negative , unacceptable and disastrous for the agricultural sector in the outermost regions and the acp countries affected by it , which , of course , supply 40 % of the community market .
the flat-rate system that the commission intends to introduce would cause producers in the outermost regions of the european union , such as madeira and the acp countries , to go bankrupt .
if our policies are to be consistent with our declarations of support for the acp countries and for the development of the outermost regions of the european union , we cannot allow agriculture in those regions and its future development - in which the production and export of bananas play a major part - to be squeezed by waves of dollar bananas from the large plantations that banana multinationals own in latin america .
that is why we - and i am now speaking on behalf of a significant minority in the ppe group , which could be a majority the next time - support the commission ' s position .
following a transitional period , a tariff of eur 275 per tonne is to be introduced for bananas from third countries , from which bananas from acp countries would be exempt .
however , the achilles ' heel of the commission ' s proposals is the lack of sufficient protection for the interests of banana producers within the european union , essentially in the peripheral regions and the overseas departments .
there is still a need for a political compromise here .
the structural measures envisaged in title iii of the regulation on the common organisation of the market in bananas need to be considerably strengthened .
because , ladies and gentlemen , adopting a ' tariff only ' system after a transitional period of six years , as the commission proposes , would truly condemn our producers to failure and despair .
ladies and gentlemen , let us make no mistake , if europe surrenders on the banana issue today , it will surrender on sugar or rum tomorrow , and the next day it will have to abandon its social model and its development policy .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the banana regime of the european union has already been condemned four times by the world trade organisation .
after the united states , ecuador has also now obtained permission to take retaliatory action for an amount of usd 200 million .
commissioner , i too remember the european union introducing a regulation in 1993 on the organisation of the market in bananas , so as to ensure protection of outlets and income for community producers and to guarantee the exports of the acp countries to the community market .
in 1999 , the wto panel , orchestrated by the united states , condemned the community ' s import licences system .
the commission has submitted to that verdict by amending the market conditions to end up with a ' tariff only ' system in 2006 .
the implementation of this new regulation , which actually goes beyond the wto ruling , would call into question the distribution of community and acp products and would aggravate an already fragile social situation , especially in the french overseas territories where the selling price of bananas had already fallen below 3 francs in 1998 and was less than 2 francs in 1999 .
i am glad the committee on agriculture has rejected not only the amendments championed by the intermediaries of the american multinationals , but also the commission ' s proposals .
i entirely approve of the dary report which opposes the automatic move to a ' tariff only ' system and which defends the principles which presided over the establishment of the common organisation of markets , especially community preference .
by adopting the dary report , we will be sending the council and the commission the clear signal that our parliament is determined to defend the interests of community and acp producers , to make the wto recognise that the preferential agreements constitute development aid instruments .
furthermore , as we saw in seattle , the new round of wto negotiations should be a genuine development round .
mr president , commissioner fischler , banana production has a special significance in certain less developed countries , signatories to the acp agreements , island regions such as crete , and , in particular , outermost regions such as madeira , the canary islands , martinique and guadeloupe .
we are not talking about fully developed regions in the centre of europe which have countless alternatives when faced with changes in market conditions , and where the common agricultural policy invests most of its resources .
for this reason it is not possible for us to accept radical changes in the community ' s trade policy in this field unless we take full account of its regional impact and unless we take the necessary measures in this field in terms of economic and social cohesion .
the lisbon european council instructed the commission to present as quickly as possible practical measures aimed at implementing the commission ' s report on the application of article 299 ( 2 ) in relation to the outermost regions .
chiquita , dole and del monte , who produce in latin american countries , have not seen their production levels go down since 1993 .
having said that , it is not that i do not think it is possible , as put forward in the commission proposal , to adopt , as of 2006 , a system which does not impose quota restrictions or tariffs on acp countries or any other countries .
postponing this until 2010 would not make much difference , although that would undoubtedly give us more time to find less damaging solutions .
i regret various aspects of this dary report .
i have to say that this timescale of ten years is wholly unrealistic and unreasonable .
in ecuador , 60 % of banana producers are small producers with less than 20 hectares , and they are suffering from unjustifiable discrimination .
that is why contradictions exist within the dary report , which , on the one hand , advocates a global approach and support for fair trade bananas throughout the world , but , at the same time , continues to create difficulties of this kind for small producers in latin america .
mr president , commissioner , at this point in the debate i am not going to enter into a discussion of the dary report , nor discuss its fundamental points , but i do wish to say that the official position of the ppe group is in support of the entire dary report .
commissioner , your proposal does not accord with the objectives nor resolve the problems being suffered by the banana industry and politically it is not worthy of our producers .
nor does the commission ' s proposal comply with our international commitments .
however , the most serious problem is that , immersed in difficult negotiations with the world trade organisation , we are showing publicly , in black and white , where our weak points lie .
furthermore , i am sure that you will find a viable route in the direction indicated .
therefore , commissioner , act politically , find a solution and listen to this parliament .
the first area is the deletion of references to a tariff only system and an automatic move to such a system after a certain transitional period .
the second important area is the issue of managing tariff quotas .
our discussions have also covered other alternatives for managing quota c .
the third area , which relates to quotas , is the extension of the period for maintaining the quota system to at least 10 years .
the commission has proposed the transitional period because it gives time for producers within the community and in the acp countries to prepare for the new system .
with regard to the tariff preference for acp countries , the commission believes that eur 275 per tonne is sufficient to secure access to the community market for these countries .
a higher preference would also lead to renewed attacks in the wto .
if the higher preference limited latin american countries ' access under quota c , this could be interpreted as if we wanted in practice to introduce a special acp quota .
i shall now turn to the special support measures for our own producers in the european union .
there are already horizontal measures in place guaranteeing equal access for organic bananas from third countries and organic bananas from the community .
in addition , the european union can grant subsidies for the production of organic bananas under the agri-environmental measures envisaged in the development plan for rural areas .
in addition to the possibilities i have just mentioned , it is also possible to provide support for developing production of organic bananas and also of fair trade bananas in the acp countries under the regulation establishing a special framework of assistance for traditional acp suppliers of bananas .
however , assuming that the compromise - and i would once again like to express my sincere thanks to all those involved in achieving it - remains unchanged in other respects , i would ask you to vote for amendment no 1 tabled by the group of the party of european socialists , because it includes a sensible addition .
however , i must reject amendments nos 2 and 3 , because in terms of content they would have too great an impact on the overall compromise .
the amendment is essentially about a vote on the explanatory statement in my report .
last monday we did indeed have a wide-ranging discussion in the committee on budgetary control on the admissibility of this question , and on whether , as chair of the committee , i should make use of rule 161 .
madam president , i tabled this amendment , along with 37 colleagues from the european people ' s party , because i was appalled at the way the media had exploited the explanatory statement which , as everyone should know but obviously does not , is the responsibility of the rapporteur and in no way commits the house .
having said that , i think you are right , madam president , to declare it admissible because the vote this amendment involves is not a vote for or against the explanatory statement , but is simply intended to highlight the distance between that explanatory statement and the resolution .
therefore , bearing in mind that the rapporteur has not spoken on this fundamental issue , i understand that the amendment still makes sense and the group of the party of european socialists accepts it .
after the vote on amendment no 5 madam president , although some people are pleased at the decision that has been taken , this creates a very dangerous precedent .
whenever , in future , there is an explanatory statement which some in the house do not like we have established that every time we will be able to vote against if we wish to do so .
if either of these amendments is adopted , will you , as president of parliament , assume full political responsibility for their content and take the consequences if the demands set out in them are not met by the deadlines .
mr van hulten , as president , i take responsibility for declaring these amendments admissible .
the problem facing me is whether they are admissible or not .
on amendment no 4 madam president , we have an amendment before us which allegedly sums up the substance of two observations by the court of auditors very concisely .
on amendment no 1 from the greens / ale group madam president , point 6 , on which we have to vote in this amendment , stipulates a deadline of 15 may .
we have already agreed on this , and this was also unanimously agreed in committee , because we accepted that this was only possible if we took account of the situation on negotiations .
this is about calling on the administration to present an action plan by 15 may describing exactly how improvements can be made .
our group supports this compromise amendment with , however , the exception of one word : " plus " - " plus proportionnelle . "
presumably the english version is " more proportional . "
we cannot accept that word .
however , under the rules , it is not possible to ask for a split vote on a compromise amendment .
i note that if amendments nos 100 and 101 were both to be adopted , it would come to exactly the same text as this compromise amendment , except for the problematic word " more . "
as i know that colleagues in other groups had exactly the same problem with this word , i would suggest to friends and colleagues that it might be appropriate not to accept the compromise amendment but to vote instead in favour of both amendments nos 100 and 101 , which are compatible , and that would achieve precisely the result desired by many people .
thank you , mr corbett .
excuse me , mr brok , rule 130 of the rules of procedure is very clear .
i am only following the rules , just as i should . ( parliament decided not to put the compromise amendment to the vote ) on amendment no 118 from the greens / ale group madam president , there seems to be a lack of correspondence between the different linguistic versions of amendment no 118 .
the french version simply refers to " les autorites competentes , " whereas the english version refers to " the competent devolved authorities " which , in english , has a more significant meaning .
we established our voting lists in favour of this amendment on the basis of the french version .
madam president , the french text takes precedence .
on amendment no 174 from the ppe group madam president , we wish to request a split vote , first on the term " four-fifths " and then on the rest .
now , on the original text of paragraph 29 , i believe i had a request for an oral amendment from one of our rapporteurs .
so i will give him the floor to present his oral amendment and then we will have a split vote and roll-call vote on paragraph 29 .
mr dimitrakopoulos , if you would like to present your oral amendment , parliament will decide .
madam president , the oral amendment consists of adding the word ' continuing ' to the second part .
in this case , we informed your services yesterday that we would not be signing that compromise amendment .
thus , it should never have been tabled in our name .
before the final vote madam president , i would like to make a political declaration on behalf of my group in relation to an issue which i believe has left a nasty taste in the mouths of all the groups in this house : the vote on paragraph 3 , on the composition and distribution of seats in the european parliament .
my group will vote in favour of the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report , but i propose that the committee on constitutional affairs , in its wisdom , be charged with the task of finding a solution to this issue , because it is enormously sensitive throughout this house . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) president .
on the final vote on the resolution we were faced with three choices today : to vote in favour , to vote against or to abstain .
to vote in favour of the stauner report is to vote for postponement of granting discharge which , all things considered , we believe should be granted now .
as we explained in the budgetary control committee , our preference was to vote " yes " to reform but " no " to visiting on this commission the sins of its predecessors .
in the liberal group we have been consistently in favour of many of the elements in the stauner report such as access to documents - it is a duty of the current commission to provide access to documents .
if we do not vote in favour of the report it is because we want to indicate a preference to do business on reform now rather than later because we believe , on the evidence to date , that this commission is a reformist commission .
voting against the report would merely have the effect of sending the report back to the budgetary control committee without a clear expression of what happens next and by what means .
the french socialist delegation is glad a majority was achieved to pass amendment no 5 highlighting the slippage between the resolution put to the vote and the explanatory statement .
by that vote , members have reaffirmed that only the rapporteur is responsible for the explanatory statement .
the proposed report mrs stauner submitted to the committee on budgetary control caused consternation far beyond the members of the committee itself .
the resolution put to the vote in parliament today presents a catalogue of reasonable demands and recommendations to the commission .
they leave the committee on budgetary control sufficient time to prepare a report which will rule effectively on the implementation of the 1998 budget by the commission . - ( it ) the delegation of the democratic left to the european parliament , of which i am chair , voted against the stauner report on the 1998 discharge because it does not agree with the basic line taken .
the report does not focus on the commission ' s actions during 1998 , to which the discharge relates , pursuant to article 205a and article 206 of the treaty and article 89 ( 5 ) of the financial regulation , but is lingering over alleged cases of fraud , most of which occurred in the early nineties during the terms of previous commissions .
the prodi commission has undertaken a vast reform , which is necessary in order to modernise the european civil service and to reorganise its structures in preparation for the many challenges which it will have to face over the next few years .
indeed , it is necessary to ensure not only that past cases of fraud cannot be repeated , but also , and above all , that the level of management errors identified by the court of auditors in its annual report is greatly reduced .
kuhne report ( a5-0097 / 2000 ) - ( nl ) in view of the inadequate management with regard to the buildings and personnel policy contracted out , as mentioned in the kuhne report and in the report by the financial controller , we are of the opinion that discharge to the european parliament in respect of the implementation of the 1998 budget must be postponed .
the european parliament must operate the same high standards with regard to its own management as are required of the commission .
we are convinced that discharge can only be granted to the european parliament in respect of the implementation of the 1998 budget , provided that specific measures are taken to buck this deplorable trend once and for all .
dimitrakopoulos / leinen report ( a5-0086 / 2000 ) mr president , i would like to underline that no one in parliament will agree with every single item and every single paragraph of this important report .
but we know that .
mr president , i have voted against this report .
mr president , we are opposed to the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report because it proposes an integrated , centralised , rigid model of europe , which is the opposite of our europe and which can only block enlargement .
we find three points in this report particularly harmful .
thirdly , the totalitarian drift of so-called european democracy , with the introduction of mechanisms , in particular making the application of article 7 of the eu treaty more flexible so that a member state can be suspended , mechanisms , then , which will give a handful of leaders authority to operate a thought police across the continent , even against peoples expressing themselves democratically , as in austria .
one of the most controversial points that arose during the debate was the contradiction between the anticipated proliferation of members of the european parliament because of enlargement , and the ceiling of 700 members the treaty of amsterdam has imposed on our parliament .
that limit was chosen to make the european parliament resemble a national one , but all it does today is set the countries against each other , as none of them will accept a reduction in its quota of members , and that is understandable .
the europe of nations group proposes putting an end to these conflicts by breaking through the ceiling of 700 members .
it could work in variable geometry formations and its originality would have a powerful impact on the imagination .
mr president , like many others in the group of the greens / european free alliance , i have voted against this report for many reasons , but above all for three reasons .
if a union of 28 member states is to be successful , it must obviously have a flexible structure .
mr president , i express my disappointment at my green colleagues and my own group , because i was left with no opportunity to vote on two key amendments on the common , foreign and security policy .
it was very important for us to have an opportunity to say whether nuclear weapons play a role of any kind in the future of the common , foreign and security policy .
i voted against the report itself , because i feel that more centralisation means less safety for smaller member states , less democracy , less involvement of people at a local and national level .
a new constitution for europe that overrides national constitutions , a legal personality for the european union and , of course , more militarisation : this is not the kind of europe i want .
mr president , i voted for amendment no 100 to the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report on the european parliament ' s proposals for the intergovernmental conference , which , i regret , was not adopted by the house .
mr president , i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution although i did not agree with the individual points .
i regret that , at the end of the day , only 238 members voted for the text , and i would like to ask those responsible for the running of this house to check whether the procedure followed really made sense .
i would also ask you , mr president , to raise this vote in the bureau , and to consider whether we cannot arrange matters differently , so that we avoid a mammoth voting session like this , which has lasted two and a half hours .
mr president , although i am broadly in favour of the dimitrakopoulos report on the intergovernmental conference , i abstained on the final vote .
the rejection of amendment no 57 , which would have removed this ambiguity , therefore leads me to abstain on the text although , i repeat , i support its main thrust as regards the igc .
and i am quite sure the igc will not retain the current wording of paragraph 32 .
i believe that we should go much further , and move more determinedly , towards federalisation and away from nation states , towards the regions and the peoples of europe .
it was difficult for me to support the resolution because it mixes the worst in with the best .
on the other hand , i did not want to vote against a resolution which probably represents the best the european parliament can do at the moment .
the obvious conclusion seems to me that parliament itself still has a long way to go to meet the profound aspirations of the majority of european union citizens .
to take just one example , parliament was only able to maintain a compromise on the composition of the commission with difficulty , but truth obliges me to state that the compromise incorporates two contradictory ideas .
ainardi , bakopoulos , eriksson , figueiredo , frahm , koulourianos , meijer , herman schmid , seppanen and sjostedt ( gue / ngl ) , in writing .
we oppose the development of the european union towards a state with superior powers to those of the member states in all aspects of policy , as the report in practice advocates .
we demand that the stability pact be reconsidered and article 56 of the treaty be rewritten in order to bring the ecb under democratic control .
we consider that in insisting on a broad agenda , the european parliament is not facilitating what should be the main task of the igc , namely that of resolving the outstanding institutional problems regarding the composition and voting rules of the council , the commission , the european parliament , the court of justice and the other institutions , and so making enlargement possible .
the eu should build on a common political will to achieve the overriding objectives relating to peace , the environment and prosperity in europe , focusing on the interests of its citizens .
the debate in the committee on constitutional affairs , which adopted the draft report with a very small majority , plus the fact that more than 200 amendments have been tabled for consideration in plenary , show that this report cannot contribute to creating a common basis for the igc .
as regards the composition of the european parliament , we have voted for calculation of the number of members from each member state according to a sliding scale so that the european parliament ' s composition reflects the size of the individual states , populations as well as the fact that there are benefits to be had from making the european parliament more representative by enabling the different political viewpoints in the individual countries to be represented there .
this can be achieved by laying down requirements for a certain number of votes in the council which must , at the same time , represent a simple majority of the total population of the union .
all member states must demonstrate the political will to make cooperation work .
in parallel with the igc , the member states are discussing a common european security and defence policy .
the commitment of the portuguese members of the socialist group to the european project is a constant point of reference in its work and in its founding principles .
we find ourselves today at one of those key moments at which the european union needs to rethink and adapt its policies and its institutions so that it can respond better to the challenges of enlargement and of the effective and democratic functioning of its institutions .
advocacy of a progressive political union , pursuing the federalism which was at its origins , strengthening european citizenship and the economic and social cohesion and cultural diversity of its peoples are essential and inseparable aspects of the options before us .
the institutional implications of enlargement cannot be allowed to damage the fundamental balance - which the treaties successfully express - between the twofold legitimacy of the union of peoples and the union of states which underpins the european project and which has made a decisive contribution to shaping its institutions .
the deepening , at global level , of european integration with a view to political union must satisfactorily preserve this fundamental balance which has ensured the success of the european project , bringing together states with such divergent demographic and geographical characteristics .
and it is also out of respect for these principles and convictions that we have felt obliged to vote against the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report , which , in our view , attempts to respond to the challenges of enlargement by means of solutions which would lead to a significant imbalance in the twofold legitimacy of the union of peoples and the unity of states .
we do not believe that the proposal in the report describes with sufficient clarity and openness the adoption of a criterion putting all member states on an equal footing , whether the commission is made up of one commissioner per member state or of a college of 20 commissioners .
the issue of electing 10 % of the members of the european parliament via european lists is also insufficiently clear .
the european list is a good idea , especially if the only people included in it are individuals who represent a genuine point of reference in the spirit of europe .
until now all decisions in the european union relating to appointments have been taken unanimously , and there has never been a lack of appointments or any kind of crisis .
we believe that the unanimity rule has the virtue of ensuring a greater balance and of avoiding possible conflicts between large and small countries within the european union .
it can therefore be said that the igc , which is charged with proceeding with the institutional reforms which will make enlargement possible , holds the future of the european union in its hands , since it has to decide between the minimal reform laid down in the treaty of amsterdam and the broad reform which will allow the union to accept the countries which are preparing for accession and pursue its task in favour of respect for human rights , peace and social justice .
therefore , given that we are at a crucial moment in the process of european integration , it was appropriate for parliament to send a message indicating what it understood to be the key points of the reform .
in the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report which we have just approved and which i have voted in favour of , parliament indicates that we have to make further progress and that , to this end , we have to give the european union the necessary means to complete the shared project of peace and well-being initiated 50 years ago .
furthermore , the issue of the european parliament ' s seat is covered by a court of justice ruling of 1 october 1997 and laid down in the protocol on the seat of the institutions annexed to the treaty of amsterdam .
as a french socialist member , i am therefore very much opposed to any proposal that would call into question the strasbourg seat of the european parliament .
madam president , that is why i have voted against this motion . - ( sv ) enlargement of the european union is one of the most important issues for the future of europe .
the aim of the present intergovernmental conference is to prepare the eu for this enlargement .
the report on the intergovernmental conference is the european parliament ' s contribution to that conference .
we , the swedish members , mr pierre schori , mr jan andersson , mr goran farm and mrs ewa hedkvist petersen , support the main features of the report , but we would highlight the following points on which , to some extent , we have different opinions , which is why we abstained from voting in the final ballot .
the role of the european parliament is to represent the people in the union .
we advocate a ceiling of 700 members of the european parliament .
it is important that the solution should be a permanent one and not need to be changed in connection with any future enlargement .
an alternative would be for the weighting of votes in the council to be calculated on the basis of the root of the population in the individual countries .
closer cooperation between at least a third of the member states cannot apply in the case of defence cooperation .
eu cooperation is , in the first place , a civilian european project and ought to be distinguished from military cooperation .
we now know its general scope , and it is clear that much of the content of this resolution , regardless of its merit or lack of it , has nothing to do with it .
the stability plan for south-east europe is a failure : the declarations of loyalty to nato by the governments of eastern europe do not prevent the european union treating them with contempt and imposing anti-social policies on them .
we must build a europe capable of enlarging towards the east and the south , to all peoples who democratically express the wish to join .
the intergovernmental conference is not intended to increase the powers of the union ; the point of the operation is to improve the functioning of a union enlarged from 15 to 26 or even 30 member states .
through these excesses a majority of this parliament has done europe a disservice . , in writing . ( sv ) the intergovernmental conference is an historic opportunity for member states to transform the eu into a democratic , open and efficient organisation , which is why we regret that the governments of the member states do not have the political will to carry out an in-depth reform of the union .
on this basis , we think it is important for the present intergovernmental conference to establish the size of the commission at one commissioner per member state .
we do not think it is appropriate to see this as a permanent solution to the problem which will arise when the eu is enlarged .
therefore , we must increase the use of qualified majority voting in the council in order to avoid paralysis in decision taking , we must limit the number of commissioners so that the union 's executive remains efficient and we must limit the number of meps to 700 to enable parliament to function effectively .
at the same time , if the european parliament approves a report like this , it will appear to be indifferent to situations which are obviously urgent , such as the need to overcome or at least mitigate serious democratic deficits ; the need to modify the monetarist principles - in particular the stability pact - which are the root cause of today ' s social scourges such as unemployment and unstable employment ; to change the statute of the european central bank so as to ensure greater transparency and appropriate controls and limits on its powers ; and to make the existing principle of economic and social cohesion a reality , which is a vital step in creating a europe of the future based on solidarity .
the dimitrakopoulos / leinen report covers a wide range of issues which could be considered in the framework of the igc which is taking place over the remainder of 2000 .
the debate which has begun between member states is reflected in the points of view expressed within the european parliament , as is the tension over the scope of the igc .
the european parliamentary labour party believes that it is imperative to conclude the igc before the end of 2000 in order to leave the eu fully prepared for enlargement .
in order to achieve this , we believe that the scope of the igc should be restricted to " tidying up " the outstanding points from amsterdam , plus a small range of other issues .
we have concerns over the workings of a european public prosecutor 's office whilst being concerned to protect the union 's interests and resources against fraud throughout community territory .
likewise , the legislative measures in criminal matters in respect of fraud damaging the interests of the union will need to be carefully constructed .
the national parliaments and local authorities should play an important role by ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is respected and by monitoring governments ' action in the council . - ( sv ) when the european parliament today stated its position on the intergovernmental conference , i advocated solutions which also provide for the interests of the small member states .
since i do not consider the report to be in earnest with regard to the demands for decision making in the council , to the way in which judges are to be appointed and to the number of members of parliament , i voted against the report in the final vote ( 238 votes in favour , 147 votes against and 73 abstentions ) .
the sanctions on iraq have become a weapon of mass destruction against the helpless people there .
over 200 children die there every single day .
mary robinson , the high commissioner for human rights , has been speaking out against sanctions for a long time .
she said you cannot expect her to condemn human rights abuses in other parts of the world and let the united nations itself be responsible for what is happening in iraq following the sanctions .
within hours of his resignation , the head of the world food programme in iraq since january 1999 also resigned in protest at the sanctions .
i would like to point out that 70 congressmen sent a letter to bill clinton in the united states asking him to lift the embargo , asking him to de-link economic sanctions from the military sanctions that are currently in place in iraq .
it is a blatant violation of international human rights laws .
the sanctions are targeting the most vulnerable in society and making them suffer yet , at the same time , the elite in that society and the people who are part of the saddam hussein regime do not suffer from the sanctions .
that is absolutely unacceptable .
no member of this house can remain unmoved by the harrowing situation in which so many iraqi people find themselves .
the facts have been presented by respected international bodies such as unicef .
the consistent refusal by the regime to fully implement united nations resolutions has led to a situation where the sanctions remain firmly in place almost ten years after the invasion of kuwait by iraq .
we must make it very clear in this forum that united nations resolutions are legally binding on all members of the united nations .
it is within the power of the regime to have the sanctions imposed by the united nations lifted .
full implementation of resolution 1284 obliges iraq , among other things , to cooperate with the red cross in overseeing the repatriation of detainees .
it is better to tell the truth and admit that the interests of the united states take precedence over those of communities .
today , we are going to vote on a motion , a very important motion for a resolution calling for an end to the sanctions , an end to the embargo .
saddam hussein is certainly responsible and guilty , but we are also incurring a great deal of responsibility and guilt in continuing with a policy which maintains the population of a country in extreme poverty , a population such as the iraqi people , with a rich history and culture , a population made up of people , women , children , who want to live .
i hope that when the embargo imposed on iraq is lifted , this will be the end of all embargoes everywhere throughout the world .
this is important for all of us .
the honour of europe depends on our speaking out for these young arabs , for this great people being consigned to the night .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , parliament will shortly be voting on a joint resolution and that is certainly not just because we are determined to have a clear conscience and actually condemn the perpetuation of sanctions which have never achieved their goals , as everyone agrees .
it is also because we think there is a real possibility of preventing a new risk of military force being unleashed there , given the experience of our colleague , mr buttiglione , who has been to iraq and has alerted us to the fact that there is currently a significant risk of renewed bombing .
but we can feel gratified that we are voting in parliament today on a resolution on the situation in iraq which has , for the first time - and i hope we will take advantage of this to change our style a bit - won the approval of almost all the political groups .
i would mention , too , that only two members of the security council voted for it , against the advice of the three other members who abstained .
it means that , for the first time , the international community is being asked to show consistency with its own principles , because the various un committees agree that these resolutions have been virtually all applied by the iraqi regime , except for some minor points of interpretation or detail .
the fact is the discrepancies between iraq and the international community do not justify maintaining the embargo .
mr president , our resolution is very consistent .
for my part , i would refer to the procedure which seems to me in this case to be important .
this is a debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance , which has been devalued insofar as we are not getting a declaration from the council , as parliament had requested , on including this point as a council declaration .
i would like to say that , without presenting any valid argument , this attitude on the part of the council seems to me to show a lack of respect towards parliament , especially when parliament offers the council the opportunity to make any declaration on any subject , as laid down in rule 37 .
it is truly contradictory that this parliament cannot obtain a council declaration on an issue as sensitive as this .
therefore , mr president , i would like to say that my group intends to ask the committee on external affairs , at its next meeting , to present , pursuant to rule 42 , an oral question to the council so that the council will reply .
if this initiative is not successful , my political group will present , pursuant to the same article , an oral question to the council so that the council really takes seriously the worries and concerns of this parliament and really does what is laid down in the treaties , that is to say , to inform and cooperate with parliament in all those areas which affect and concern the citizens of the european union .
mr president , i am as concerned as anybody in this house about the suffering of the people of iraq as the result of sanctions but also of the actions of their own government .
if we are to support this resolution then iraq must most definitely honour its obligations under all the united nations resolutions .
we , as a parliament , must stand by our resolution of january this year , calling for the release of all kuwaitis and other non-iraqi nationals who are still imprisoned in iraq .
i had the opportunity to visit iraq last month .
it regrets iraq ' s decision not to accept united nations security council resolution 1284 .
and we could have done even more if the iraqi government had not imposed restrictions on the activities of non-governmental organisations , hindering the delivery of humanitarian aid in iraq .
given the situation we cannot pretend that humanitarian aid can do any more than alleviate some of the effects of this awful economic and human situation in the short term .
in this regard , we agree with the draft resolution .
the vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m .
we are categorically opposed to any form of terrorism and we support the fight against terrorism in every country in the world .
however , for several months a war has been raging in chechnya which none of these arguments can justify .
i spent over six years of my life in russia and have very close ties with that country .
it is high time that this war ended and that a political solution to this conflict was found , no matter how difficult and complicated that might be .
we would therefore react vigorously to these atrocities , but we also see it as very important to cooperate with democratic forces in russia and with the new government .
mr president , what has happened in the war in chechnya has shocked us all .
mr president , the president of chechnya has limited control over the troops in his country .
we have also heard that there is the possibility of a joint parliamentary delegation undertaking a fact-finding mission on an ad hoc basis under the best possible conditions with a view to looking around the territory of chechnya wherever it sees fit to do so .
we shall vote against article 1 because once again it involves support for this statement and we could substitute a better statement of our own .
the delegation will have to examine what can be done to preserve the defence of human rights in the region , but also examine what we can do in the future to help chechnya become a democratic constitutional state .
we want to make use of this information at a later stage , that is after the delegation has returned , as the basis for a major debate in this house , involving the council and the commission , and leading to the adoption of a really well founded resolution .
mr president , firstly i would like to say that , through political pragmatism and through loyalty to the work that we do with the other groups in this house , we will support a joint resolution which basically supports the decision of the council of europe and the sending of a joint delegation from the duma and the european parliament .
we must also say that we do not share this kind of silence on the part of the european parliament which is spreading to all these issues like a low mist which obscures everything .
we have even noted that the council of europe itself is showing more courage than this parliament .
either we have human rights or we do not have human rights .
secondly , we want to show our solidarity with our colleagues on the other side of the river ill , with our colleagues in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe , who have taken a courageous step and who we should not lag behind in fighting for human rights .
that is why we must say a resounding ' yes ' to steps against these wrongdoings and why we believe that it is important for representatives of this parliament to visit chechnya as soon as possible , following the example of the council of europe and the un commissioner for human rights , mrs robinson .
we wish to help both peoples and both peoples have the right to advance towards freedom and towards taking their proper place in the international community .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , foreign policy needs to be based not only on fundamental moral values and principles , but also on success in achieving its aims and objectives , and this should not be confused with opportunism .
but we should not fool ourselves into imagining that in this case we simultaneously want to achieve something important for peace in europe and throughout the world as whole , that is to say a dialogue with russia and ultimately a partnership with russia .
it is the job of the council presidency and the commission , whilst at the same time defending moral values and condemning this war , to endeavour to ensure that we support those forces which are all too poorly represented in russia , but who nevertheless wish to pursue a european path , a path towards a european partnership , a partnership with the european union .
during these discussions , we have reiterated our main demands : cease-fire and political dialogue , access for , and presence of , international and humanitarian organisations , and independent inquiries into any human rights violations .
all these demands are also in the european parliament ' s resolution and the recommendation from the council of europe ' s parliamentary assembly .
as the european parliament has emphasised , the russian authorities have failed to respond satisfactorily to these requests .
for our part , we support the united nations human rights commissioner , mary robinson ' s request to russia to set up a broad independent committee of inquiry into any violations of human rights , based on recognised international criteria .
we think russia should pursue implementation of the partnership agreement in terms of its elements - i do mean all its elements - and provide more concrete results than we have at this stage .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m .
jewish prisoners in iran mr president , what is the purpose of this joint resolution ?
and remember , this has been the case for over a year as they were arrested in march 1999 .
our amendment in paragraph 5 is based on this very consideration .
the trial is taking place behind closed doors .
these people have been in prison for months under conditions we know virtually nothing about .
there is no guarantee of the right to a defence .
three have been freed on bail .
it is also clear that the outcome of this trial partly depends on how the iranian political situation evolves .
justice has little place in that kind of battle , and human rights even less .
that is why we must demand the release of the prisoners : the thirteen iranian jews , but also the other eight moslem prisoners and the students we know absolutely nothing about .
finally , we must make it absolutely clear that the development of our relations with iran will be subject to respect for human rights in that country .
the youngest is only sixteen years old .
our feelings are as strong as our concern .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the group of the greens / european free alliance wholeheartedly supports the joint resolution that will be put to the vote today .
today is a special day , 13 april 2000 , the date of the so-called ' trial ' .
in 1979 , 1993 , 1998 and 1999 , resolutions were sent from the european parliament to iran , but what happened to them ?
the israeli minister for foreign affairs , david levy , sent a letter to various ministers , including the belgian minister , to point out that these people are in no way guilty of spying .
that seems to me an unacceptable position for any country that claims to respect human rights .
these 13 who were arrested were arrested in secret ; nobody knew of their whereabouts for two or three months .
therefore , we can only interpret this trial as a deliberate attack on the jewish community in iran .
such a country will never achieve the unity which it desires .
my advice to turkey must be : choose the future and free akin birdal and his colleagues .
the eu is a union founded upon values , respect for human rights , democracy and the principles of the constitutional state .
unfortunately , turkey still has a long way to go .
mr president , during the debate the day before yesterday with the council and the commission , i mentioned the savage reaction of certain turkish leaders to the fear that the european union might try to interfere in internal turkish affairs on the kurdish question , at the very moment when a new path to membership is opening up for turkey .
i can only repeat here as firmly as possible what i said in ankara on my last visit there .
the european parliament has no intention whatsoever of allowing the micro-nationalist miasma which has just drenched the balkans in blood to develop in turkey .
these were his words to us then : " for five months we have had a new turkey .
human rights are unambiguous , human rights are the same everywhere and turkey must also be aware of that , otherwise it will never become a member of the european union .
the european union has accepted turkey ' s candidacy and now the turkish government must respect our agreements and conventions .
tibet mr president , from all accounts , the human rights situation in china has deteriorated considerably .
the european union cannot continue to turn a blind eye .
the united states presented a resolution on the violation of human rights in china at the fifty-sixth session of the un commission on human rights .
we are extremely concerned by the fact that the council of the union has also not yet announced its intention to support this resolution , and this may not be coincidental , since the eu-china dialogue on human rights is at a complete standstill .
tibet ' s culture and identity are being systematically obliterated .
these continual violations of the most fundamental human rights must now become an issue .
commissioner lamy , europe needs to stick its head above the parapet .
point one : tibet must become a peace zone .
point five : genuine negotiations must take place on tibet ' s future autonomous status .
commissioner , all our economic agreements with third countries need to be based on the same premise : respect for human rights .
eight years ago i was rapporteur on tibet .
for this reason we are calling on the chinese government as a matter of the greatest urgency to seek a political solution for tibet through discussions with tibet ' s political and religious leaders , on the basis of the proposal made by his holiness the 14th dalai lama .
in my opinion , the reason for this is that when we talk of human rights , we always focus on individual rights and too often disregard the rights of peoples .
from this point of view , i feel we can congratulate ourselves .
mr president , you could say that there is something of a feeling of helplessness in standing here yet again and talking about the death penalty in the usa , since it is certainly not the first time we have discussed it , not even the first time during my short period in parliament .
you may well feel that it is strange to sit in a near half-empty chamber , apart from the visitors , and discuss such an important subject , but i think it is a subject which we must continue to take up , and i would ask the member states to also respond to it here , to respond swiftly and in no uncertain terms to this so-called friendly state which repeatedly violates the most basic human rights .
for that reason even the inter-american commission on human rights asked for time to re-examine the case and to be able to issue an opinion , and it also asked that no date be set for an execution .
mr president , we should be clear as to why this resolution today is so important .
firstly , we all know that there is a wave of judicial executions across the usa - over 600 since 1977 - but this would be the first federal execution since 1963 .
secondly , it is important because this is the only case since executions resumed in 1977 in which the evidence of unsolved , unadjudicated crime in a foreign country has been used to secure the death sentence .
fourthly , governor ryan of illinois , as we have heard already , has imposed a moratorium on the death sentence in his state because of its appalling record of wrongful convictions .
in this case it is particularly important because it is a federal execution and will be the first since 1963 .
that is why we urge president clinton to grant clemency in this case and a moratorium on federal executions .
mr president , i join with previous speakers in demanding the immediate and unconditional abolition of the death penalty in the united states , and everywhere else in the world .
the death penalty is a political arm used by the american government apparatus to settle accounts with militants like mumia abu jamal .
a government which makes legal assassination one of the pillars of its justice system is infinitely more criminal than those it claims it is protecting society from .
the death penalty expresses all the barbarity of a society organised in a way that also condemns so many children and adolescents , even in the richest country in the world , to die from drug use or insecurity , actually from material and moral poverty , simply because they had the misfortune to be born in a poor area .
on a planetary scale , that barbarity condemns millions of human beings to die of hunger or disease when they could easily be cured - but they are not cured because they do not get the medicine they need .
mr president , my group firmly supports this resolution .
the american election campaign could provide a unique opportunity to send a strong message about this .
zimbabwe mr president , this short debate takes place against a background of increasing tension in zimbabwe .
all of us who speak should remember that every word of our speeches and the resolution will be eagerly read in zimbabwe within the next 48 hours by all sides .
we must , therefore , all encourage zimbabwe to move towards elections in may .
the old parliament was dissolved on 11 april and president mugabe pledged at the eu-africa summit in cairo that the elections would go ahead .
this could take up to three months .
african countries must work together to consolidate their future .
however , the old lome convention made democracy , human rights and the rule of law a requirement for development aid .
it is disappointing that zimbabwe feels the need to be involved in the war in the democratic republic of congo at a time when precious resources could be spent on domestic requirements , such as education and health .
we have fortunately been able to witness a democratic regime that seems to function well coming to power in south africa .
zimbabwe does , of course , still have considerable problems , but the european countries and the union will continue to assume their responsibilities as partners of zimbabwe in jointly tackling the problems of poverty , ill health and under-development .
in my view , zimbabwe deserves our confidence .
the population has chosen the path of development .
i support what other speakers have said about the sadac countries who will no doubt be looking upon this situation with great concern and who are undoubtedly working behind the scenes to maintain a democratic climate .
let us express our complete confidence in the zimbabwean people and wish them successful elections for 1 june .
everything points to the country sitting on a volcano that could erupt at any minute .
in the run up to the elections , mugabe will not hesitate to use violence against his political opponents .
some people even fear that he is inciting the chaos in order to be able to proclaim a state of emergency and postpone the elections .
these are subjects which should be at the forefront of political action by the european union .
we cannot hide the seriousness of what has been going on in zimbabwe for many weeks now .
the concern expressed in parliament ' s motions for resolutions on human rights in iran is entirely shared by the commission .
as you mentioned during the debate , the helsinki european council confirmed turkey ' s status as a candidate country on the basis of the same criteria that apply to the other candidate countries .
so it is important for turkey to engage resolutely in the democratisation process and adopt the necessary reforms in terms of human rights .
in the context of the regular report it has been producing since 1998 for turkey , like the other candidate countries , the commission is following the human rights situation very closely .
this document , which establishes the list of priorities to be met by turkey in preparation for membership , should be adopted by the commission next november .
like you we are worried about the cultural , linguistic and religious identity of the autonomous region of tibet , which the chinese authorities clearly do not respect .
we regard the renewal of this dialogue as the only realistic method of achieving a peaceful and durable solution to the tibetan question .
the situation in tibet was also one of the main items on the agenda at the last summit between the union and china , held in beijing last december .
on the death penalty in the united states , like many of you , the commission is concerned about the growing number of people condemned to death and executed in the united states since the reintroduction of the death penalty in 1976 .
we are engaged in permanent dialogue , not only with the united states government , but also with the other american authorities concerned , in particular the governors of the states where the death penalty has not been abolished .
and we are hoping - we have started - to encourage all the federal states in the united states which apply capital punishment to think about that risk and introduce a moratorium like the one in illinois with a view to achieving abolition of the death penalty throughout the country .
with regard to the particular case of juan miguel garza , the commission is currently working to clarify the facts through our delegation to washington .
as regards the question concerning the possible suspension of our cooperation , although there could be grounds for suspending financial cooperation with zimbabwe under the lome convention , we take the view , for the moment , as indeed does mrs maes , that such a measure would run counter to our goal prior to the elections .
since the government ' s macroeconomic results are mediocre to say the least , the commission , the imf , and the world bank have already frozen their support for structural adjustment , and the backers participating in the agrarian reform have suspended their institutional cooperation plans .
on zimbabwe ' s intervention in the democratic republic of congo , we support the lusaka peace agreement which calls for a status quo of the forces present and a ceasefire in line with the terms of that agreement .
like the european parliament , we utterly deplore them .
thank you very much , commissioner lamy .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
the community is the largest donor to many of these countries .
a prominent african leader made a very pertinent comment .
one of the main problems with providing education in many countries is the catastrophic effect aids is having on the lives not just of children , many of whom are orphans because they have lost one or both parents .
in several of the african countries which i recently visited , i was informed that in order to have one teacher , the colleges must train three , because by the age of 30 so many teachers are already dead from aids .
we are not talking about more money for the development budget but about redistribution within that budget .
finally , we cannot develop others , they must develop themselves , but this is a wonderful opportunity to help them and parliament , together with the commission , will soon be able to translate this resolution very specifically into real action in the 2001 budget .
as the author of the general report on poverty approved in the bahamas by the eu-acp joint assembly a few months ago , i would like to say that the fight against poverty must become one of our objectives and , in many cases , our main objective .
in this context , education , together with health , is the tool with which we can implement an ambitious programme to win the fight against poverty in the world .
it is our duty to take an interest in these children , particularly the girls , because in some countries they are still regarded as domestic slaves .
so in parallel with the implementation of processes to promote literacy and education in general , we must also engage in some collective thinking about the living conditions of children in the various countries , especially in urban areas , and assist in projects to look after street children in third world countries , and also in our own countries , developing pilot schemes inspired , for example , by the family pre-school proposed by atd quart-monde .
it involves reaching out to families and helping children within the family , as well as cooperation and funding to help families in difficulty , especially single-parent families and vulnerable children .
in fact it is our duty to launch an extensive review of the education of children on our planet if we want a better future for all .
in line with these international commitments , community investments in education have primarily targeted basic education and primary education , especially in the context of cooperation with the acp countries .
thus , a majority of the education programmes financed under the 8th edf have been devoted to primary education .
the funds allocated to this heading represent 80 % of the total amount devoted to education .
the commission has incorporated the recommendations of the jomtien conference on basic education into its policy and , in the framework of indicative national programmes , 35 acp countries out of 71 have made education a priority .
we agree that the effectiveness of our approach on education requires very close coordination between the community and the member states as well as with the other backers .
my last point is the question put by mr van den berg on the doubling of the basic education budget in 2001 .
thank you very much , commissioner lamy .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m .
we know annette lu and the new president of taiwan chen shui-bian .
yes , indeed , after all it is clear that the chinese people are quite capable of building a democratic system with respect for human rights .
beijing ' s behaviour confirms our opinion that the future of taiwan lies in the hands of the taiwanese themselves .
it is extremely important for this parliament to forge closer links with the elected representatives in taiwan .
democratisation in that part of the world is also important for europe .
mr president , commissioner , as european parliament observers , my colleague georg jarzembowski and i were able to follow the presidential elections in taiwan on 18 march on the spot , ' live ' as it were .
after a very long period of supremacy by the party in government up to that point - a period lasting over 50 years - the political scene has been revitalised .
the opposition candidate was elected the new president and , for the first time in taiwan ' s history , a woman was elected vice-president .
the region needs security and stability .
the only way to achieve reconciliation and lasting peace is through positive cooperation and a constructive dialogue between mainland china and taiwan .
our resolution is intended to further democracy in taiwan , but the people ' s republic of china is taking it as an affront .
mr president , commissioner , on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance , i would like to highlight this group ' s contributions to the joint motion for a resolution , both in terms of promoting dialogue with the people ' s republic of china and taiwan , as well as in the firm position which has to be maintained on this issue .
we believe that there is an objective need for taiwan to have a greater presence in the international institutions ; this parliament can promote that .
we therefore support the existence of relations between this parliament and the taiwanese parliament by means of the delegation from our institution and also the need to open a european union information office in taiwan .
having said this , we also want this dialogue to have an objective basis , as have the declarations of the new president , chen shui-bian , to which , however , the people ' s republic of china has replied with a renewed display of nervousness , arrogance and a disrespect for democracy .
we must reject these threats since they are absolutely unacceptable , but also because they are an objective threat to the dialogue which is so necessary to the resolution of this problem .
the newly elected president reflects taiwan ' s democratic maturity .
this makes the behaviour of the people ' s republic of china all the more worrying for us , as before , during and after the democratic elections in taiwan the republic did not cease to make in some cases totally unacceptable threats towards its little brother .
as the union has stated through its presidency , most recently in july last year , in principle we are in favour of one china , but we also want the tension which breaks out from time to time between taiwan and the people ' s republic of china to be resolved peaceably within a constructive dialogue .
we are encouraging intensification of economic relations with taiwan and we think that should happen if , as we expect , taiwan joins the world trade organisation .
we are hoping to do that , but we have not set any timetable because we have other priorities in asia and worldwide , and you know how limited our resources are in this field , so we are forced to make choices .
the debate is closed .
relating to the joint resolution on iraq mr president , there is a drafting error in paragraph 2 of this resolution .
mr markov , you cannot make this request on your own .
if this request is made by 32 members , i can check on the quorum .
let us proceed to the vote .
i therefore request that in accordance with rule 69 ( 2 ) the vote on the legislative resolution should be postponed .
mr president , now the vote is over , i would like to come back to the issue of a quorum .
for example , today there were 226 in the first vote after the issue of the quorum was raised .
mr president , i voted for the definition of the " youth " community action programme , as agreed in the conciliation committee , mainly because it will finance and implement the european voluntary service programme , which has a large number of young people involved in community actions , including the provision of assistance for the elderly .
the importance of the family in promoting or hampering social integration among youth is clearly recognised within society today , as well as through various studies .
the previous youth programmes , youth for europe and the european voluntary service , will be grouped together in a general medium-term programme which will run from 2000 until 2006 , as the european parliament has demanded .
every participant will also have full access to health services and social security , therefore allowing as many of our young people as possible to become involved .
these programmes will certainly benefit our young people and give them invaluable opportunities to learn about themselves , about others and about europe .
not only is this crucial for their personal development , but in a fiercely competitive world it will vastly improve their chances on the job market .
increasing our young people 's skills has always been one of our priorities and we must continue to support this aim .
that is especially true in normandy , the region i represent , where too often youth is associated with deviance and delinquency , forgetting the vast majority of young people who work , dream , love and live , the bearers of all our hopes .
the european ' youth ' initiative is a first step in that direction , and bears witness to a growing awareness of young people in the eu institutions .
but it is essential to maintain this effort over time if it is to bear the desired fruit , in the interests of young people and therefore of europe .
so i am convinced that other initiatives , especially aid to youth associations , should be massively encouraged and financially supported by the european union .
we believe that it is a magnificent initiative on a european level to dedicate a special year to languages in europe , to knowledge of them and to the recognition throughout the whole of the european union of the importance of languages as a reservoir of cultural and historical wealth and an expression of the very identity of the societies which make up the union .
we have supported this report but there are two aspects which we are not happy with .
this amendment has not been taken up , and we regret the line followed by the european commission , with the participation of the member states , because it leaves aside , at risk of marginalising it , a form of participation which is particularly important in this field .
i would like to remind you that this parliament recognised catalan as a european language and gave it a specific personality .
mr president , i voted for the establishment of the european year of languages 2001 .
it is of paramount importance for the european union that the citizens of the 15 states learn to speak the languages of their fellow citizens of the european union .
mr president , i would like to give an explanation of my negative vote on the report on the european year of languages .
secondly , the target year for this decision is 2001 ; european citizens could become proficient in other languages as is shown by the fact that all people who speak minority languages , without exception , have in common an excellent training in this field .
in a european union of fifteen member states , committed to enlargement , with eleven official languages and a multitude of regional languages , it is actually very important to make the citizens of the union aware of the advantages of understanding and speaking other languages and of the many opportunities that exist for learning to do so .
some european countries , especially the scandinavian countries , already have very advanced policies in this field and the resulting advantages are evident .
this practice needs to be disseminated to the other member states .
in the frame of this european year , most of the amendments aim to establish closer cooperation with the member states at all levels of policy , not only at national level but also at regional and even local policy level .
the second aim of my amendments was by means of the activities set up in the context of this european year to pay special attention to socially vulnerable groups , migrants and semi-skilled and unskilled workers .
haute-normandie has one of the youngest populations in france , but also one of the highest levels of youth unemployment .
making 2001 european year of languages will make europeans aware of the linguistic diversity of the european union .
in this respect , ibis ( institut bilingue interuniversitaire de la seine ) , which first saw the light of day in haute-normandie , is most exemplary .
dary report ( a5-0093 / 2000 ) maes ( verts / ale ) . ( nl ) mr president , we not only voted with enthusiasm for this report , but also for the amendments that the committee on agriculture and rural development tabled .
many of these countries are still battling with excessively high costs and i believe that a long transitional period , which i would insist on , is very important for these countries .
the vote on the dary report has demonstrated once again that the european parliament does not respect the internationally agreed trading rules .
it is unacceptable that in the dary report again a transitional period of ten years is proposed , without putting a definitive ruling first .
this war , which is presented as a conflict between producer countries , latin american and dollar area countries against lome convention countries and european overseas dependent territories , is actually a war between capitalist groups .
our position is this : while we do not want to give the mighty dollar banana sharks any awards , neither do we have any intention of providing backing through our votes to the smaller sharks protected by the european union .
if a guarantee fund is created , it must underwrite the wages of these workers and the incomes of small producers , and not allow banana magnates to increase their wealth just to invest it in other , more profitable , sectors . - ( fr ) this report gives us the opportunity to welcome the european parliament ' s becoming aware of the need to defend the banana producers of , on the one hand , the acp countries ( to whom we have made commitments in the course of renewing the lome convention ) and , on the other hand , the outermost countries of the community .
after years of difficulty due to the economic crisis in industrialised countries and the decline in the economies of eastern europe , the commission ' s solution would be likely to cause the untimely disappearance of these producing countries whose economies would not , for want of time , be able to restructure and diversify production .
it is clear today that , without actively seeking confrontation , the eu must champion its own point of view , a position which is all the more tenable as present and future european consumers represent a major proportion of the banana market .
we are therefore satisfied with mr dary ' s report , even if we feel it does not go far enough , particularly in terms of the acp tariff system , the transition period extended beyond ten years , and the definition of a new system for the allocation of import licences , or additional european aid . - ( sv ) the eu ' s system for importing bananas - which the wto panel declared to be discriminatory on 7 april 1999 - must be reformed .
lagendijk report ( a5-0069 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , it was with great pleasure that i voted for this measure on the communication from the commission on the stabilisation and association process for countries of south-eastern europe .
but throughout the century which has just ended , that region of europe has known nothing but suffering because of that claim , whether made by rival european powers or by a western europe which likes to think it is united .
the economic and political rivalries between european powers have led to two world wars : the first started in that region and the second was particularly destructive there .
as the entire current situation illustrates , that war has further aggravated the situation in the region , both in material terms and in terms of relations between communities .
people are always saying that south-eastern europe is the european union ' s crisis-riven back yard .
the political context in this region is extremely sensitive and came to a climax in the kosovo conflict .
that conflict demonstrated the potential political effects of instability on the neighbouring states , threatening to destabilise the former yugoslav republic of macedonia ( fyrom ) , albania and montenegro .
the european union was traumatised by its powerlessness in the face of the process of violent disintegration at work in the balkans .
the outcome of the cologne council was the establishment of the stability pact for south-eastern europe on 10 june 1999 , a pact involving not only the member states of the european union and , of course , the countries of the region , but also the united states and russia .
the pact is part of the global stabilisation approach the european union has been developing since 1996 .
the stabilisation and association agreements to be signed by bosnia-herzegovina , croatia , the federal republic of yugoslavia , the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and albania are the keystone of that approach .
these agreements constitute an entirely new contractual framework for the countries of the region ; they draw great inspiration from the institutional arrangements and conditions attached to the european agreements linking the european union with the ceecs .
these agreements are individually tailored to take account of the specific situation in each country .
above all , they give the countries of this crisis-riven region an important political signal and a definite incentive .
these agreements also encourage stronger regional cooperation , which seems to me indispensable to the creation of an axis of stability in the region .
garcia-margallo y marfil report ( a5-0059 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , i also voted for the measure on the commission communication on implementing the framework for financial markets : action plan , because it is clearly important for the european parliament , the commission , the union and the council to make progress in terms of competition , using networks and electronic money , which are the latest forms of economic activity .
however , i have not been able to vote for it because it still contains inconsistencies after the plenary vote .
in this context , comparison with the commission in place in the united states , the sec , is particularly inappropriate , because the sec is the corollary of a financial system resulting largely from a segmentation of the profession between commercial banks and investment banks , and in europe we have chosen the universal bank model , which has strengthened the role of the banks in the european financial system .
on prudential supervision , i made a direct appeal to the commission and the council yesterday not to cling to the crazy idea of entrusting supervision of all the credit establishments in the fifteen member states to the european central bank .
i have not voted for paragraph 26 which is mostly incomprehensible in french anyway .
kuckelhorn report ( a5-0053 / 2000 ) fatuzzo ( ppe-de ) . ( it ) mr president , considering that we are discussing supplementary pensions , the representative of the pensioners ' party could not let the occasion pass without explaining why he voted for this measure .
the committee expressed an opinion on the outcome of the consultation on the green paper on supplementary pensions in the single market , just as it did on the green paper itself .
the targeted directive we are seeking for the second pillar of supplementary pensions should , in particular , define the context for eliminating obstacles to free choice of pension fund , free movement of persons , free provision of services and double taxation .
as regards the controversial question of whether supplementary pension systems should cover biometric risks , i want to point out that , from the fiscal point of view , pension funds which do not cover these risks cannot be discriminated against as compared with those which do cover them , it being understood that the need to cover these risks depends on the extent of the first pillar in the various countries .
i regret this all the more as almost all the relevant conclusions from the committee on women ' s rights and my recommendations are included in the motion for a resolution , in particular those considering that as regards supplementary pensions too , the preservation of acquired rights is essential when a spouse interrupts or abandons his or her work in order to devote himself or herself to his or her family or look after close relatives who are in need of assistance ; for the purpose of calculating pensions , certain periods devoted to the upbringing of children or care of family members ought to be taken into account ; it is desirable to provide for the possibility of continued voluntary or optional insurance to preserve and improve pension rights and guarantee a right to payment of the capital under certain conditions .
and let us not forget assisting spouses , those millions of invisible workers , the large majority women , on whose behalf this parliament has demanded an upgrading of the half-hearted 1986 directive to give assisting spouses proper status and compulsory membership of social security schemes , especially pension schemes .
on 28 march president prodi and seven of his colleagues met with members of the committee on women ' s rights , the european women ' s lobby and the equal opportunities consultative committee .
the problem for these companies is not , of course , that they are ' hampered in exploiting the opportunities afforded by the internal market ' ; their problem is precisely the measures used to implement the internal market , the principles which constitute the eu 's competition legislation and the reduction in demand in the middle and lower classes as the result of anti-grass roots austerity policies .
and , of course , the solution does not lie in venture capital and the financial markets , which increase the risks for most small businesses , due to their limited resources , but in a different economic development policy which supports productive investment , increases demand and makes it easier for small businesses to trade .
it is not by chance that neither the individual commission proposals nor the european council guidelines make any reference to the need to limit these phenomena , control speculative movements of capital and impose a tax and other measures on capital .
the report calls for greater liberalisation of sectors such as the pharmaceutical market and a reduction in the tax burden on employment , thereby proving that the measures being taken are paving the way for greater liberalisation of and less accountable capital transactions and profits with exceptionally dangerous consequences for the entire social protection system .
this is another illustration of the ' soviet-style ' procedures of the community institutions which are now trying to invent the new consumer and the new businessman , after the new citizen of the ludford report .
com in milk the next item is the report ( a5-0081 / 2000 ) by mr pesala , on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development , on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation ( ec ) no 1255 / 1999 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products ( com ( 1999 ) 631 - c5-0339 / 1999 - 1999 / 0254 ( cns ) ) .
mr president , commissioner , this is indeed a matter of an amendment to a regulation by means of which competence would be transferred from the council to the commission .
it would be logical if this power were extended to cover milk products .
when we consider that funds set aside for aiding exports will dwindle in a couple of years from eur 587 million to eur 415 million , as a result of wto agreements , it would be a good thing if the commission had the power to examine the list of goods .
there has been some discussion that the transfer of power from the council to the commission might not be such a good thing .
planned total expenditure for export refunds for goods not covered by annex i to the treaty have been reduced from eur 610 million in budget year 1999 to eur 551 million in budget year 2000 .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m .
com in milk the next item is the report ( a5-0074 / 2000 ) by mr maat , on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development , on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation ( ec ) no 1255 / 1999 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products ( com ( 1999 ) 608 - c5-0047 / 2000 - 1999 / 0246 ( cns ) ) .
in that regard i must say that i was very fortunate as a new member of parliament that , in dealing with the budget for 2001 , parliament in any case adopted my proposal to increase the school milk budget from eur 53 to 83 million .
the proposal now before us in the report that was unanimously accepted in the committee on agriculture and rural development - i would stress ' unanimously ' - and it was particularly gratifying that all parties in the committee on agriculture and rural development support the report - boils down to the fact that more money is needed , eur 96 million in fact .
for these reasons , and to see whether this regulation could be brought more up to date , i am pleased that the report has also been accepted in this sense in the committee and i hope it will also be in parliament .
there is an expansion in the number of products that can be used in the school milk regulation .
many specific proposals have been made and that means that in this way we can adapt the school milk regulation in a better way and integrate it better into the current dietary pattern .
if this report is accepted by this house , every year about eur 12 will be spent per child on subsidies for school milk and that is peanuts in my view .
i should also like to thank the commission for its willingness to provide the necessary information and also for preparing the report .
it would therefore be an appropriate moment if parliament were to approve this report and the school milk regulation .
mr president , at the request of mr cunha i am presenting our statement on this debate on the school milk scheme .
for more than 20 years , the european union has been financing the free distribution of milk in primary and secondary schools .
in recent years this action has amounted to an average annual expenditure of some eur 90 million for more than 300 million litres of milk , benefiting around 10 million children and young people , or nearly 20 % of eligible schoolchildren .
the first is its social impact , as it ensures a minimum balanced diet for many children and young people who otherwise would not have access to one .
the second reason is that , as there is a structural surplus in the market for milk products , this measure also represents an incentive to dispose of milk in a far more useful and constructive way than by distributing it , denaturing it or exporting it to third countries at even greater cost .
it is a pity that the european union does not have more actions of this kind for other products , instead of dumping them on international markets by means of subsidies which are sometimes twice their price on those markets , which makes it difficult to understand the alleged objective of budgetary savings .
the united states , which is famous for having a more individualist outlook with less solidarity , spends nearly 9 000 million dollars a year on distributing foods to schoolchildren , i.e. 100 times more than the european union .
and the european union is now proposing to move away from 100 % financing and is proposing 50 % cofinancing , which will especially penalise less wealthy countries like portugal .
in the evaluation report on the school milk regulation that the commission itself quotes , it says that if you only take account of the explicitly stated objectives of the regulation particularly to maintain and increase the consumption of dairy products and promote the sale of surpluses , the positive effects are marginal .
nevertheless , on 10 december , the commission decided not to withdraw the measures but to halve the subsidy .
i believe that the commission must confine itself to the core tasks and leave other matters to the member states .
amendments nos 9 and 10 specifically move the proposal towards a direction where less fatty products would be treated along the same lines as fattier products .
one clear result , of course , of the proposal before us to curtail or remove this subsidy on school milk will be decreased availability of milk and a drop in the consumption of milk in schools .
the proposals before us definitely militate against that .
this would be a catastrophe , not only for the health of schoolchildren - our future citizens - but to the viability of communities also .
we were looking to a europe of cohesion that seeks to bolster its deprived communities and help its poorest citizens .
it is clear to me that the proposals before us are not merely a means to curtail the subsidy , but rather , in the event of a lack of participation by member states in the wake of the subsidy cut , to terminate it entirely .
defending communities is far , far more important .
we must keep our milk farmers farming and the communities where they earn their living as viable entities .
the agricultural committee deserve every support in this regard .
the commission is proposing to reduce the level of community aid , by amending the regulation on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products .
increasingly young people go off to school without eating any breakfast or without having any milk in their morning meal .
nor do we forget that some children from very deprived backgrounds skip breakfast for financial reasons .
milk provides a very healthy and balanced diet , something we should all support .
we are in a situation in europe at the moment where we are pouring millions of euros into the agricultural industry , yet the farmers have never been worse off in their lives .
he has challenged us to look to the future , not just in relation to milk itself , but also to milk products and ways in which we can encourage children to drink milk .
mr president , for years i have been calling for the school milk scheme to be changed .
currently , full-cream milk is fully subsidised , semi-skimmed milk is semi-subsidised and skimmed milk receives no subsidy .
furthermore , a scheme with subsidies per pupil would be much easier to administer .
it is a real science calculating the fat percentages in milk and cheese .
i think , therefore , that we must vote for the amendments of my good colleague and friend , niels busk .
i would also like to thank my good colleague and close friend , freddy blak , of the socialist group , for his support for my amendment .
the school milk scheme concerns health and nutrition .
children and infants must learn healthy eating habits , and milk , with its protein and calcium content , is a very important part of this .
there are various traditions relating to which dairy products are consumed , and the scheme is simplified by awarding the subsidy on the basis of a quarter of a litre of milk per pupil per school-day .
in this way the scheme takes account of the differences in the milk traditions which exist in the different member states .
mr president , commissioner , the commission proposal to henceforth fund the school milk programme by means of 50 % cofinancing has evoked a furious response in the council and in parliament .
the union should develop its policy within this context .
for the same reasons , i am unable to accept amendments nos 8 and 10 , which are designed to link the level of aid to milk components other than fat .
finally , amendments nos 8 and 9 are intended to make it clear that the aid will be paid for a fixed quantity of milk per schoolchild per day .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m .
mr president , this debate on the guidelines on vertical restraints is the last in a series of four on an extremely technical subject , for now anyway .
the commissioner knows the subject and the members who are still to speak on this matter know at least as much as i do about it .
first of all , are we going to receive the evaluation which we asked for after three or four years of new policy in the sphere of vertical restraints ?
thirdly , the automobile distribution contracts for the time being fall outside the new policy , but the regulation for this sector expires in 2002 .
in conclusion , mr president , i should like to thank those members - unfortunately they are not here in the chamber - who also dealt with this subject in the committee on economic and monetary affairs , not only for this report , but also for the three reports that preceded it .
these issues cause problems , at least in my home country of finland , and in other small member states .
the 30 % market share limit provided for under the block exemption regulation will cause problems relating to equal treatment for existing petrol stations , at least in finland .
it is important to define unambiguously the relevant markets referred to in article 3 of the block exemption regulation .
these are amendments nos 2 , 3 and 4 .
the formula used is contained in section 147 of the commission guidelines on this subject , which is known as the investment depreciation period .
amendment no 3 refers to the setting of prices by the producer - the resale price - in certain cases , such as the launch of the product .
this is referred to in sections 38 and 39 of the commission guidelines , but it is clear that , in certain cases , we have to provide flexibility and we are sure that the commission will understand this .
lastly , amendment no 4 refers to the protection of producers against pressures applied by the distributor to force them to extend the contract .
we are talking about exclusive contracts , sections 131 et seq .
first of all , many thanks to you , mrs thyssen , for your excellent report .
second , my thanks also to the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for supporting this important reform project .
the draft is an important step in the reform of competition policy in respect of vertical restraints .
since the green paper was published in 1997 , the development of the institution of vertical distribution restraints has gone through various phases , including most recently the adoption of new regulation 2790 on the application of article 81 ( 3 ) of the treaty to categories of vertical agreements and concerted practices .
furthermore , in answer to your question , mrs thyssen , as to whether there will be a review , the answer is yes , there will indeed be a review of the guidelines after four years .
with regard to your question about horizontal measures , the commission is currently drawing up a set of guidelines relating to this horizontal cooperation agreement .
it is very likely that this will happen before the end of april .
i am delighted to report that the european parliament and the commission have worked together closely and constructively on this issue .
we will include this in the minutes , mr maccormick . ( the minutes were approved ) mr president , i only wanted to report my presence for the minutes .
mrs buitenweg , you cannot request this on your own .
such a request must be made by at least 32 members .
i notice that more than 32 members have made this request .
you will undoubtedly know that there is a quorum if one third of the meps are present in the chamber . ( the number of members present was counted ) i note that there is no quorum and that the vote on the pesala report will therefore take place in the next part-session .
report by mr maat ( a5-0074 / 200 ) , on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development , on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation ( ec ) no 1255 / 1999 on the common organisation of the markets in milk and milk products [ com ( 1999 ) 608 - c5-0047 / 2000 - 1999 / 0246 ( cns ) ] mr president , i am pleased to say that i , together with a number of other colleagues from my group , fully back the initiative which mrs buitenweg has taken .
if this is not the case , mr president , i would ask you to check the quorum before we proceed to vote on the maat report . ( more than 32 members rose in support of this request ) ( the president established that there was not a quorum ) mr president , i have been trying to catch your eye for a while now .
i would ask the members who this morning requested that the vote be postponed in the absence of a quorum to consider the following : if you want to reform the rules of procedure , which are indispensable in this house , if you want to improve our working practice , you cannot achieve this through impulsive actions ; instead you must initiate a full debate on reform of the house .
the delegates who are here this morning , who have done their work , who spent yesterday evening preparing for the work to be carried out today , are being punished here today , by a spontaneous action , for the fact that not everyone in parliament has done their homework .
mr bourlanges , i can perhaps put your mind at rest by informing you that i will , of course , refer this morning ' s matter to the bureau .
mr president , since there will no doubt be another quorum vote , i would like to remind the president and the members of this parliament that , during a quorum vote , it is not permitted to leave the chamber .
mr president , i think it is genuinely important .
mrs van der laan , i understand that you would like the quorum to be checked .
we need to check whether there are 32 members who wish to support you . ( more than 32 members rose in support of this request ) ( the president established that there was no quorum ) mr president , irrespective of whether this action was spontaneous or premeditated , it is still an act of sabotage by the anti-strasbourg lobby .
i do , however , consider that it is not right to criticise those who use an instrument which was adopted by democratic vote , such as the rules of procedure , for purposes which all may not support , but which are nevertheless permitted by the rules which we have established for ourselves .
i would ask , rather , why it is that many members voted in favour of working on fridays in strasbourg and yet are not in strasbourg today .
please do not ask me to name any particular member , but i guarantee that some of the 32 members who voted in favour of the request for a quorum are no longer here .
therefore , some of the 32 members have violated the rules of procedure .
i would much rather that the commission ' s office in copenhagen was a little more accessible .
mr president , i should like to thank mr andreasen for his question since it gives me the opportunity to express the extent to which i share his views , as , indeed , i emphasised during my hearing before this house last september .
it is true that we have all , not just the commission , but also parliament and the member states , made many mistakes in our information policy in the past .
we must all , not just the commission in isolation but the commission in collaboration with the member states and with parliament , proceed to examine the matter in depth and develop a new information policy .
moreover , let me tell you quite explicitly that i have taken careful note of the problems which exist .
obviously , the new information policy which we are going to be implementing will have to optimise the use of all the information and communication possibilities which this new technology makes available to us .
we have once again started to work within an interinstitutional working party on ' information ' , in which parliament is represented , and as part of this work , which is a tripartite effort involving the national states , the european parliament and the commission , i plan to present a communication to you in the near future outlining a new approach which i shall first present to the commission , some time before the summer , and which i shall then discuss with you .
i also think we must all clarify our respective roles .
she has a really tough task on her hands but i am sure that she will get the full support that she recognises that she needs from the european parliament .
the information deficit is actually more serious than the democratic deficit that we often talk about .
in the recent past , we have had the oostlander report in 1993 and the famous pex report in 1998 .
this week i had a visitors ' group from the winchester probus club , mainly retired people and , in general terms , well informed about world affairs .
finally , i have to address the problem of parliament in strasbourg .
you have mentioned two aspects which i would like to stress : the regional dimension and efficiency .
in your review of information policy , i would ask you to bear in mind the experience of certain member states .
that government ' s decision was to commission an information campaign on the euro from a very important advertising agency .
the commission has long had an office there .
i am sorry to say that this week it has been announced that the scotsman newspaper is closing down the office of its brussels and european correspondent .
i am glad that the commission and parliament have helped to make information available in scotland and i wish our own media would do likewise .
we , and i say that very clearly , the institutions of the european union , the european parliament and the delegates cannot bear sole responsibility for providing information on europe .
without the support of the member states , without the support of the public representatives at borough , county and national level , without the support of all the institutions , we will not get directly to the citizen , because either we are here doing our work or we are involved in communication and information processes with our citizens .
commissioner , i am waiting for your master plan , your schedule , your specific measures for implementation .
mr perry has addressed three specific points .
i know about this problem .
on 3 april we launched the new access facility - europe direct .
in any event it is important for all actors , including members of the european parliament , to intervene with the media so that they enhance their reporting about europe .
i would like to make it quite clear , once again , that the provision of information to citizens is not the exclusive responsibility of the commission .
that is also one of the focuses of the new information policy which i would like to introduce in the future .
this is probably the first time i have heard delegates referred to as soldiers , but we know what role we are playing here .
yesterday , there was a question from mr maccormick on the postponement of the vote on the com for bananas .
had we voted in accordance with our rules of procedure , we would no longer have been involved .
i did want to point this out because parliament should not be mistaken for a kindergarten , and this is the feeling i will have when i leave this chamber today .
mr president , our action is not finished .
i would really like to know what kind of nonsense this is ?
night flights and excessive noise the next item is the oral question to the commission ( b5-0206 / 2000 ) by mr lannoye , mrs auroi , mr bouwman , mr bowe , mrs cerdeira morterero , mrs corbey , mr costa paolo , mr deprez , mr desama , mrs gonzalez alvarez , mrs guy-quint , mr izquierdo collado , mr jonckheer , mrs korhola , mr kreissl-dorfler , mrs lienemann , mrs lucas , mrs mckenna , mrs maes , mr martinez martinez , mr papayannakis , mrs patrie , mr arvidsson , mr puerta , mr ries , mr rod , mr de roo , mrs sandbk , mrs schroedter , mrs sornosa martinez , mr staes , mr sterckx , mrs terron i cusi , mrs van brempt , mr vander taelen , mrs van lancker and mr ducarme , regarding night flights and noise pollution around airports .
standards were last established by the international civil aviation organisation in 1977 .
therefore , there has been no progress in this area for 23 years , and it is clear that aircraft replacement policies are not in any way motivated by the introduction of more stringent standards , to the extent that our aircraft are extremely outdated .
the recent commission communication on air transport and the environment defines a noise reduction strategy based both on economic factors , such as improving air traffic control and airport access , and on fostering progress in technology .
this is a good strategy which will limit the increase in noise pollution , but in my opinion and , i would argue , the opinion of a good number of members , it will not allow us , in the short term , to reach our objective which is that nobody is exposed to dangerously or uncomfortably high noise levels .
faced with this situation , a number of countries and regions have taken steps to restrict access to airports at night .
i also feel that the organisation of night air transport activities , which are inevitably going to be noisy whatever the level of technology employed , is certainly something which must be restricted and coordinated .
i made no contribution to this morning ' s debate and , with your permission , i would like to say a few words now regarding the vote .
personally , i would prefer a vote in which a large number of members take part to a vote which takes place at noon on friday in which only thirty or forty members participate .
i took part in this morning ' s action and i did not appreciate criticism from members who interpreted it as an anti-strasbourg manoeuvre .
mr president , i would like to thank mr lannoye for this initiative and for launching the debate in this chamber on this very important matter .
as pointed out in this communication , the commission does not see how uniform and restrictive rules governing restrictions on use , which would apply to all community airports , as would be the case , for example , for the general ban on night flights , could provide the most balanced solution to the issue of noise pollution attributable to certain airports .
however , it also considers that a common framework is necessary to coordinate the procedures adopted in order to reach these decisions so that when a region decides to ban night flights , for example , it does so in the same way as a similar region somewhere else .
i would also like to touch on the subject of hushkits .
the vote will take place after the debate .
mr president , noise pollution caused by aircraft is a very topical issue .
the noise pollution at zaventem has exceeded the permitted levels for a long time .
in a recent communication from the commission on air transport and the environment , an initial strategy has already been outlined .
mr president , commissioner , for some time the populations living close to barajas airport in madrid have protested every time there has been an extension of the airport , for various reasons , but mainly because of noise pollution .
i know that in the last two months the government of madrid has proposed a reduction in night flights , after 11.00 p.m. , but i also know that the measures that have been taken have not had any significant effect on the quality of life of the population .
from the joint motion for a resolution , i would like to highlight some of the proposals - please excuse any repetition - which i believe the european commission should take note of if it wants to reduce noise pollution : a global and integrated framework for reducing noise pollution which should lead to a framework directive with concrete and binding measures ; the uniform application of those measures in all member states so that there are no distortions ; a community framework for the classification of noise which will allow measures to be taken with the rigorous allocation of slots and a reduction in flights ; and progress towards the establishment of a common air space , which is not in conflict with local and regional measures .
in truth , mr president , if everybody disliked aircraft as much as i do and travelled by rail as much as i do , perhaps we would have fewer problems .
first of all , i must say that many of the problems are the result of bad planning or no planning at all .
local authority involvement is therefore important , although , i must stress , it needs to be within a general european legislative framework .
mr president , noise pollution caused by aircraft is mainly a problem to those living near airports .
i also back the other proposals to reduce noise pollution .
mr president , commissioner , your comments this morning on both subjects showed that we need not only rapid data highways , but also efficient air transport in europe to remain competitive .
the airports of liege and maastricht are within a radius of almost 200 km .
businesses , such as dhl , will then simply move to airports in other member states .
the much publicised and promised common framework for noise classification of aircraft could not be here soon enough , commissioner , especially given the russian situation .
a general ban on night flights would therefore seriously disrupt air transport activities .
most large airports place restrictions on the use of the noisiest types of aircraft or employ economic instruments in order to limit their use .
pages 34 and 35 of the communication on air transport and the environment contain an action plan setting forth a precise schedule .
i would , however , like to request that the vote be deferred , if only out of a desire for consistency with this morning ' s events , and also because it would be fitting for a resolution as important as this to be voted in by more than 40 or 50 members .
mr lannoye , i understand that you are moving that the vote be adjourned .
mr president , i am , of course , making this request on behalf of my group .
in this case , rule 146 of the rules of procedure applies .
mr president , i would like to back mr lannoye ' s motion .
this seems to me to be in the interest of the good rules of this house .
mr posselt , you are absolutely right .
mr meijer , i would thank you and other members for their creativity in coming up with solutions to this problem .
mr president , i welcome this point of order , for foresters and the forestry sector cannot wait for the outcome of these rather irregular debates which can only have one effect today , and that is to send out a message proclaiming that the european parliament is made up of absentee members , whereas most of our fellow members , including those here today , are certainly not relaxing in front of their televisions but are working in the field .
as it happens , we already expressed our sympathy , as we are wont to do , in a resolution of 20 january 2000 , and requested that the commission supply us with certain information and undertake to help those of our citizens - and they were numerous - who were in difficulties , for this disaster affected the whole of europe .
we are not asking you to include timber in that policy , but it appears that europe could have employed equivalent measures to assist the timber market during this exceptional crisis .
these are not virtual instruments .
may i refer you to mr barnier ' s speeches at the plenary sitting of 18 january 2000 , when he stressed that the commission would willingly employ every available means to assist the member states .
nevertheless , with regard to forest damage , i must also remind you that the european parliament , notably in its resolution of 31 january 1997 on the forestry strategy of the european union , and also the council of the european union , have repeatedly stressed that the treaty does not lay down any specific competence for a union forestry policy .
it is therefore , first and foremost , national aid to the timber industry which is the most appropriate means , at national , regional or local level , of supporting the worst affected forestry sites in the industry , and the member states have to decide on the procedures for providing this aid .
the aid programmes notified by the french government do , in fact , contain a general measure supporting the windfall transportation which may result in some of the timber being transported to countries outside the union .
with regard to the joint financing of aid programmes proposed by member states under article 30 of regulation ec / 1257 / 99 on support for rural development from the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund ( eaggf ) , i would further stress that the commission is prepared to be extremely flexible .
in the meantime , two member states , including france , have presented their adapted programmes , which now include a substantial section on bolstering the forestry industry following the storms at the end of 1999 .
the vote will take place after the debate .
mr president , first of all , i would like to congratulate you on the way you handled the debate this morning .
but commissioner , i would also like , and i feel that this is essential , the institutions of the european union to bear witness to the solidarity which unites the member states , in particular in the event of exceptional disasters such as the storms of 26 december last which caused such unprecedented damage to a number of forest regions in france , germany and austria .
it is therefore essential to be able to draw on the structural funds to finance special measures for forests and the timber industry in the case of disasters in objective 2 or former objective 5b areas .
the european union must take full responsibility for its citizens .
commissioner , when you say that national aid is the important thing now , then i would say to you that this also means that , in this instance , you do not want to organise the common european market .
mr barnier was very emphatic in his speech , assuring us that the european union was , in effect , going to do something to help the victims .
and , in this regard , may i say that the european union ' s policy consists of robbing peter to pay paul .
mr president , the document on the difficulties faced by the forestry sector following the storms in december 1999 only refers to the damage caused to the wooded areas in order to better illustrate the price drops in the timber sector and the implications for foresters and timber exporters .
for my part , i would like to speak up on behalf of forestry workers , who receive no mention at all , even though it is their efforts which are keeping the timber sector going .
they are demanding to be able to retire at 55 and calling for an improvement in their working conditions , which are still antiquated and result in the physical deterioration and sometimes death of a number of workers each year .
we support these legitimate claims .
i support the community initiatives in favour of the tropical forests , but i am astounded that there is not the same enthusiasm to come to the aid of our own devastated forests .
in baden-wurttemberg alone the accumulation of storm wood runs to about 25 million solid cubic metres .
just the cost of remedying the damage in baden-wurttemberg , the area for which i can speak as the delegate , runs to about dm 1.5 billion , of which dm 300 million are needed simply for reforestation .
i have seen how the hurricane took the roof off our stable and i have seen the state our private woods are in .
he indicated , as you have today , commissioner , that you are willing to give consideration to , to help ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , the natural disaster which overtook european countries was tragic .
moreover , the same applies within the framework of regulation 1257 / 99 .
commissioner , you have been extremely active this morning .
joint motion for a resolution replacing the resolutions on the economic effects of the recent storms on the forestry sector in europe ( parliament adopted the resolution ) declarations of vote and other declarations mr president , i voted in favour of this resolution and i am glad that those behind the sabotage which , from 9 o ' clock this morning , prevented us from carrying out our work properly and voting are no longer present to turn this parliament into an undignified circus .
i was a member of this parliament 35 years ago and in all my time i have never seen such abuse of the rules .
in the interest of forest owners , including in my own state where , to be fair , the last storm disaster was not as devastating as here , for example , in alsace , i hope that measures will be taken by the eu , as proposed here , in order , above all , to prevent small and medium-sized enterprises going under .... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , i would very quickly like to go back to the events which took place during the explanation of votes or during the point of order this morning .
i am very new to this parliament and i would just like to express my deep disappointment at the incident .
on behalf of this parliament , i would like to apologise to the people of ethiopia , to the men , women and children who are suffering in a tragic situation and in relation to whom parliament was prevented from adopting a position this morning .
we were able to vote on the last two items , which were also urgent , but , in all honesty , i would have preferred to have voted for the people of ethiopia and to have lent them the support of this parliament .
mr president , i would like to support what mr daul has just said .
i notice that , today , we are concluding this sitting with approximately fewer than 40 members here to make decisions .
but i am one of the people who took the initiative and i am still here , just as i am here every friday .
nor can i fail to mention the fact , which has already been referred to here , that the saboteurs of this morning ' s sitting did not take part in the vote , and i am delighted that the ppe has suggested a nominal vote , which will clarify the matter .
however , i am of the opinion that those who wish to ensure that the work of parliament continues to be carried out should also be present .
they are no less valid because only a few delegates participated .
mr president , i would first of all like to thank the president of this eventful sitting , the members present and mrs reding .
the subject of the forestry sector is now open to debate , and we must take up the issue of natural disasters as well , for we cannot endeavour to draw closer to our citizens and then explain to them that we are unable to help them when they are in trouble , while , at the same time , we are sending task forces abroad .
i would like to express my support for the comments of mr daul , who worked together with evelyne gebhardt to draft this resolution on the timber industry , and to express my regret and shock at the fact that we have exploited the plight of the people of ethiopia to further our petty games .
mr president , i , too , regret the actions which prevented this house from working this morning .
i have been in this house for 21 years in all , although only 6 of those as a parliamentarian .
i have taken part in every friday session for 21 years , even when i had another job and was not a delegate .
however , irrespective of that , i would like to say that i have repeatedly seen such attempts over these 21 years .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday , 14 april 2000 .
madam president , i would like to make a statement on this international press freedom day on the situation in tunisia and request that you intervene .
thank you , mr baron crespo .
we have just learnt that the brother of taoufik ben brik has been sentenced to three months in prison .
i am referring to the disarray in parliament ' s calendars and agendas , at least for this current year .
on 13 april , we had received a departmental note stipulating which days were holidays and which were not .
however , to change dates , as this departmental note indicates , to introduce holidays which did not exist before , is a serious lapse in planning in an institution with 600 meps and thousands of employees .
i would just like to say that i propose to raise this matter with the bureau this evening .
thank you , mrs banotti .
the report is accessible via the internet , as is the spanish government ' s response .
a week ago , a spanish court sentenced five former government officials , including a civil guard general , to up to 71 years in prison .
madam president , coming back to a point that was raised earlier on : 9 may is , as you know , europe day and parliament will be closed .
thank you , mr miller .
thank you , mr baron crespo .
it was reported in the news this morning that the euro has already fallen below the psychological limit of 90 cents , which augurs even more worrying and serious falls in value .
somebody has to give an explanation and announce measures that can restore minimum levels of psychological confidence in what has now become the common currency of many of the union ' s member states .
thank you , mr ribeiro .
madam president , my group intends to request that , in the debate on monetary policy , a commission statement on the information policy that it is planning on the euro be added .
it seems to me that in this respect we should be as aggressive in our defence of the euro as our counterparts in the united states congress are in defence of the dollar .
ladies and gentlemen , i am perhaps the longest-standing parliamentarian in this house , having been elected to the french parliament 45 years ago and having sat in this house for sixteen years .
madam president , in these circumstances parliament has powers which are fully regulated , in the absence of a uniform electoral system , by means of article 12 of the 1976 act concerning the election of representatives of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage , of which paragraph 2 , which i will read in french , since that is the text i possess , says : " lorsque la vacance resulte de l 'application des dispositions nationales en vigueur dans un etat membre , celui-ci en informe le parlement europeen qui en prend acte " . [ " where a seat falls vacant pursuant to national provisions in force in a member state , the latter shall inform the european parliament , which shall take note of the fact " . ] we are therefore talking about a formal and fully regulated competence .
for that reason , madam president , as soon as i received a note from the competent departments , i called a meeting of the legal affairs committee , which will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m .
madam president , i would like to speak pursuant to rule 6 , in the first instance , and then , if you permit me , to rule 7 ( 4 ) ( 2 ) , but i shall be brief and to the point .
rule 6 incorporates the provisions covering the waiver of parliamentary immunity into our rules of procedure .
review of the financial perspective the next item is the statement by the commission on the review of the financial perspective .
mr levi , formerly spokesman for the commission , has been appointed director of the forward studies unit .
all these staffing decisions were taken as part of the reform of the commission and i think they were the right decisions in the context of the further reform measures that are needed .
let me remind you that the berlin decision on agenda 2000 was taken on exactly the same day as the outbreak of war in kosovo .
according to the commission ' s estimates , the financial requirement for albania , croatia , bosnia-herzegovina , macedonia and also montenegro up to the year 2006 will be eur 1.5 billion , i.e .
the view of the commission is that we will have to raise the external action ceiling here for the next few years by eur 300 billion a year .
in this connection , the commission made the following proposal on financing this additional requirement : in the years 2001 and 2002 , these resources should be taken from resources previously earmarked for agricultural policy and reallocated to the external action heading .
the necessary redeployment is the result mainly of comparable cuts in the tacis programme for the countries of the former soviet union .
let me conclude by pointing out the following : there is another point where the decision on the revision of the financial perspective also responds to a request by parliament .
if you are taking money from category 1 for the next two years , where do you expect that money to come from in 2003 ?
but the commission is proposing that both arms of the budgetary authority should try to make savings in particular areas during the annual budgetary procedure in order to find these 300 million .
let me stress once again that , in my view , we can finance this increase in foreign policy resources within the overall ceiling decided in berlin and that the appropriations for serbia should only be disbursed once we see real democratic developments there .
having said that , i fail to see your grounds for considering that agricultural expenditure is not going to be used in its entirety , as it should , nor how you could release sums , that you describe as minimal , for the heading covering international actions and foreign policy .
fine , i can accept that , but what gives you the right - you spoke of very specific criteria , so tell us what they are - what gives you the right to think that too much money has been earmarked for other parts of the world , apart from the fact that you need that money for kosovo .
mr bourlanges , to answer your last question , the world bank ' s estimate of the requirements in kosovo was indeed expressed in dollars .
in its proposal the commission has now allocated eur 1.1 billion for the period 2000-2006 .
it is not therefore charging appropriations already disbursed for kosovo in 1999 .
in reply to what you said about agricultural expenditure , let me point out the following : this year , given the fluctuations in the exchange rates , we will be spending about eur 500 million less on agriculture and the estimates for next year are that we will need about 650 million less , assuming a parity euro-dollar rate .
i can assure you that the commission did not approach the question of how to finance this new priority , this new task , by looking for some kind of bottomless pit ; it simply took a very practical decision for the years 2001 and 2002 .
in practice , the commission proposal means redeploying eur 600 million from agriculture policy for the years 2001 and 2002 .
in the event of a political change in serbia during 2001 , we could also resort to the flexibility reserve .
mr manisco , the commission regards it as most important to promote cooperation between the states and the regions with funds from the european budget , with your help .
that is why the proposal on the review of the financial perspective specifically earmarks approximately eur 80-90 million for cooperation projects .
secondly , as i pointed out , we have allocated eur 40 million for aid to serbia in this year ' s budget as well , but these funds will only be used in a targeted manner in areas where the democratic opposition forces are currently endeavouring to establish a democratic system and the rule of law .
this year ' s budget includes eur 540 million for the region as a whole .
this item is closed .
vote - ( nl ) mr president , i can advise you how to vote on each of the four amendments .
according to experts and specialists in child nutrition , milk is indeed essential to the proper intellectual and physical development of children , of all children .
a proposal such as this represented a threat to the health of our children .
furthermore , it totally contradicted the conclusions of the agriculture council of 14 and 15 june 1999 .
it was only after long , intense discussions that the commission proposed to increase the budget line by eur 31 million , with the total amount committed to aid for providing schools with milk then rising to eur 84 million .
this is the only way to ensure that this system survives .
we therefore view the commission ' s proposal concerning cofinancing as a step in the right direction .
the reason for this intervention is to clarify why this house should oppose the commission ' s proposals to cut subsidies for school milk by half .
as i have stated in my report , what is particularly disconcerting is the fact that seven out of a total of fourteen essen specific projects have still not secured adequate funding , nor has a definitive timetable been drawn up for their implementation .
the main aim of community funding is to finance feasibility and technical studies , as well as interest subsidies and loan guarantees .
the fifth proposal is that the commission should accord greater importance to the forthcoming revision of the ten guidelines in order to improve access from europe ' s island and remote regions to the central regions .
another proposal in my report is that there should be close cooperation between the commission , germany , austria and italy on the brenner base-level tunnel , a community project of the utmost importance which , of course , comes within the scope of trans-european networks .
community policy in the field of trans-european networks is of major importance because it is not possible to have a common transport policy without a convergent infrastructures policy , as is stressed in the maastricht treaty .
however , the member states must respect the pledges made , and the commission must also take into account the guidelines established for the b5-700 budget line - a major budget line established in 1998 - promoting more environmentally friendly models and , above all , taking the different factors into consideration where a trans-european link passes through densely populated areas or highly industrialised regions .
for this reason , we also consider that appropriations set aside for these projects must not exceed 50 % and that , after due analysis , the amounts still available for projects on which little progress has been made could be recouped and used for other projects with the same priorities , including environmental priorities .
the annual report shows that shortcomings exist in the way money spent on the development of trans-european networks is monitored , and insufficient details are available as to the results achieved through the use of funds .
the rapporteur has quite rightly pointed out that , of the fourteen essen specific projects , seven still require confirmation of their funding and timetables .
in the future , greater care should be taken in selecting such specific projects .
at the same time , we shall also have to give consideration to the link between regional policy and transport .
the trans-european transport networks , and the 14 specific projects in particular , have not succeeded in any of the aims they were in fact intended to achieve , even though a great deal of money has already been invested .
on the contrary , unemployment has risen : even in 1995 , in the ten poorest regions , unemployment was seven times higher than in the richest regions , while today it is eight times higher , and rising .
the commission ' s 1998 annual report on trans-european transport networks gives a clear overall picture of the progress that has been made in certain specific projects as well as containing valuable information on the contributions made to these infrastructural projects by the various sources of community funding .
i share the concern of the rapporteur over the fact that seven of the fourteen essen projects are still facing difficulties because their funding is not totally guaranteed and no timetables have been drawn up for their implementation .
it would be useful if the commission , in its future annual reports , specified what funding has been provided by national , regional and local public bodies and by the private sector , in addition to european funding , with a view to setting up the trans-european transport networks .
i hope that in these new guidelines they will accord greater importance to improving access to trans-european network funding for europe ' s island and remote regions .
a positive start has been made , but the situation looks pretty grim as regards the other projects and , in particular , for the remote regions , as mr collins has already pointed out .
so , in response to what mrs schroedter said , i feel that we must not lose sight of the fact that what these major projects are mainly concerned with is the development of railway infrastructures .
there are , however , difficult choices to be made in order to avoid the huge pollution-related problems currently in the news in austria , as well as in italy and germany .
this concerns member states , of course , and certainly italy in particular , which has not supported this project with sufficient vigour , but it also concerns the commission , as the rapporteur made very clear .
it is the commission ' s duty to come up with measures which encourage both public authorities and private companies to invest in these huge trans-european networks .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the development of an efficient infrastructure for transport in europe is essential , particularly for isolated regions and rural areas , in france as well as in many other states .
it is important that the general rules governing the granting of community financial aid to the trans-european networks are strictly complied with .
indeed , trans-european transport policy has considerable repercussions as regards the sustainable development of local economies and job creation .
we endorse paragraph 9 in the report , which states that the commission should faithfully adhere to the budgetary guidelines established for ten projects .
the commission must , as quickly as possible , put forward fundamental measures and incentives to promote these specific projects and , in coordination with the member states concerned , draw up a timetable for their implementation .
moreover , this project will have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the union as a whole .
in fact she has insulted us as well , for parliament and the council adopted the 1996 guideline by codecision on a proposal from the council .
let me just mention two projects that have been successful .
our committee proposes a four-sided agreement between the three states concerned and the union .
one can therefore quite easily understand the great interest this country and its representatives have in trans-european networks , which i wish to talk about today .
the commission has presented us in its 1998 annual report with a rough picture of the state of progress in the construction of these networks , a picture which the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism - which , in the report under discussion , is asking for greater efficiency in the whole network construction operation - would like to be more detailed and informative .
the trans-european networks policy is not , however , being implemented in such a way as to resolve this crucial issue , despite the fact that it was introduced with the specific aim of establishing direct links between remote countries and the union ' s central regions .
the debate on the report by mr hatzidakis , whom i congratulate , provides us with a good opportunity to get to grips with the political dimension of the current situation and to try to find a solution to it , in line with the decisive reform of the trans-european networks policy which is due to be implemented in the 2000-2006 period .
i hope that we will be able to bring about the changes that the european union needs in order to achieve the regional balance and social cohesion that we are advocating .
mr president , this annual report clearly shows that europe is not providing itself with the means to implement its trans-european transport networks policy .
it therefore proposes to have recourse to private funds , in the form of partnerships , and this , moreover , is an essential element of the project .
this approach to rail transport raises the issue of public service .
we must make use of private companies because they profit from the infrastructures , but in the form of tax deductions and not by them having an interest in the capital of railway companies .
the european commission ' s annual report on trans-european networks once again sets out the progress made with many transport projects and emphasises the important part the tens play in protecting the environment .
i take the view that the 14 projects decided at essen play a very significant role in the extension of the european transport networks and , like many speakers before me , i want to stress the enormous importance of the brenner base-level tunnel .
now we also need a clear political resolve , and not just on the part of the member states .
trans-european networks are essential for the completion of the internal market , but also for the economic and social cohesion of the european union .
the commission ' s report on the implementation of the trans-european networks in 1998 outlines , in general terms , the results of the financial implementation of the priorities that were established , such as rail transport to exceed the 50 % minimum that had been laid down .
firstly , the need for investment in the trans-european networks that compensates for the decrease seen during the 1990s , not just by increasing appropriations , but also through the participation of the private sector and through the use of eurobonds .
secondly , the adoption of fundamental measures which will stimulate progress in the seven specific projects still experiencing difficulties , so that their completion can be scheduled and the necessary work accomplished .
thirdly , that in future reviews of the trans-european networks , greater importance is attached to the access of the remote regions to the central regions and to island regions .
to conclude , i should like to stress the fact that economic and social cohesion is not compatible with the commission ' s working proposals on this matter for 2000 , because by seeking to concentrate investment in existing bottlenecks , we would be favouring the central regions , to the detriment of remote regions , such as portugal , which are obviously the regions with the greatest need for transport networks that bring them closer to more highly-developed areas .
the participation of private capital will necessarily result in a quest for profit , to the detriment both of users and of those who work in the sector .
as stipulated in the explanatory statement of the report , public investment is continually decreasing and in less than twenty years , has fallen from 1.5 % of the european union ' s gnp to 0.9 % .
if the member states of the european union do not adopt a new policy , or , in other words , if they do not prioritise investment in public services rather than endless subsidies to the bosses , any decision on a genuine public transport service operating on a european scale under the best safety conditions will remain nothing but empty rhetoric .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the commission ' s report states that 1998 saw the consolidation of the trans-european networks and outlines the progress made with various projects in the area of transport , energy and tele- and data communications .
unless there is an increase in the financial contribution made by national , regional and local public bodies and by the private sector , we will not see any significant progress in this area in the foreseeable future .
i should nevertheless like to stress the fact that recourse to private finance should never be an obstacle to the development of communications in regions which currently have a per capita income well below the community average .
with regard to the future review of the guidelines for trans-european transport networks , i feel i must once again draw the commission ' s attention to the need to attach greater importance to improving access to europe ' s remote and isolated regions , and to focus particularly on establishing sustainable transport networks .
the commission ' s work programme for the year 2000 lays down that the review of the guidelines for trans-european transport networks must concentrate on reducing bottlenecks in order to rationalise traffic in europe and to make it flow more freely .
mr president , growth and employment in europe depend to a large degree upon exploiting european infrastructure effectively .
it is no secret that i am very much in favour of a permanent link between denmark and germany , and i am glad that the new danish minister for transport is also a supporter of the project .
building a permanent link between germany and denmark will create many new and much-needed jobs in the area .
mr president , i would firstly like to express my sincere gratitude for the work accomplished by mr hatzidakis , chairman of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , on the review of the trans-european networks which , in the coming months , i will have to present to this house .
accordingly , i will take this opportunity to make some observations on behalf of the commission .
firstly , i fully agree with mr hatzidakis on the importance given to community policy on trans-european networks and i also share parliament ' s concern , expressed not only by mr hatzidakis , but also by the draftsperson of the opinion of the committee on budgets and by other meps , on the need for this policy to be provided with adequate financial resources .
in this respect , i would like to thank parliament for its support for the provision of a total of eur 4.6 billion for the period 2000-2006 for this chapter .
in this respect , i share the european parliament ' s concern with regard to the adequate funding of transport networks , but i believe that we can jointly assume some of these responsibilities .
i would like to remind you that we know that community support for projects carried out during 1996 , 1997 and 1998 has accounted for 30 % of the total , which is a very significant figure .
it is true that these include projects in objective 1 areas and cohesion countries , which has allowed the percentage of cofinancing to be greater .
however , i must tell you that we cannot provide you with overall information , because we are not only talking about community finance but also about finance provided by individual countries and private sectors in some cases , as well as regions and local authorities .
furthermore , some of the projects present great technical difficulties .
we are talking about 54 kilometres of tunnel in one of our most mountainous areas , with a series of unknown factors and uncertainties which require that the project be guaranteed as far as possible before we make such a huge investment as the one required for the brenner tunnel .
it is perhaps better to begin something late , but to begin with all the guarantees in place , than to find half way through that the studies have not warned us of some difficulty or other , meaning that we have to go into reverse , which would cause even greater delays .
furthermore , i would like to point out that the level of funding in terms of the total appropriations for the 14 principal ten projects has been 60 % .
i will be presenting this review report and an initial proposal shortly .
so when we clear a bottleneck in bordeaux , we are in fact benefiting the development of an area of the iberian peninsula .
what i mean to say is that acting in a central area does not always harm the interests of the remote areas , but , on the contrary , in many cases it is perfectly interrelated .
mr president , lastly , i would like to refer to the question of the intelligent management of traffic .
this aspect will also be included as a key element in the review of the trans-european networks .
thank you , commissioner de palacio .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
i will now move on to the key point in your communication , namely the fact that there is no external policy for european aviation , in other words that the rights with regard to third countries have been negotiated bilaterally .
the opportunities for business and job creation during the last decade have played a major part in the economies of countries in europe and worldwide .
the report covers a number of areas and outlines fairly accurately the way the aviation industry has developed over the last ten years .
i fully accept that there are challenges which need to be addressed such as problems with congestion , in particular air traffic control .
however , i believe that the commission has a responsibility to put forward more balanced views which do not undermine the value and success of an industry which has made an enormous contribution , not only to the countries of the european union but worldwide .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats supported mr sterckx ' s report in the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism as it will support it in plenary .
it would be better still if the amendment on passengers ' right to information tabled by the group of the party of european socialists were to be adopted in addition .
as rapporteur for a very good commission communication on aviation and environment i know that the issue of environment and competitiveness is a very live one with strong feelings on both sides of the debate .
it makes the case that the world ' s 16 000 commercial jet aircraft produce more than 600 million tonnes of co2 every year - nearly as much as all the countries of africa put together .
it makes the case that the number of people flying will almost double in the next fifteen years .
mr sterckx has included environment in this own report .
i very much welcome that but i would also like to see environment automatically mainstreamed through all commission reports and communications .
the enormous competition within the industry has led to a price war in certain sectors .
the number of passengers and , alongside this , the number of flights , is growing at an alarming rate .
the pressure on personnel in the sector is increasing both socially and financially .
mr president , madam vice-president , ladies and gentlemen , i just want to shed more light on one aspect of the sterckx report , the question of airspace control , air traffic control .
if we follow the example of the european economic area with norway and iceland , then there will no problem with including switzerland in the same system .
let us hope that if the member states really provide the vice-president with what she wants , she can then present us with a good proposal that also includes short-term measures which can enter into force this summer .
another result of liberalisation has been the practice of co-sharing , of airline alliances , and in some instances even takeovers .
it is very easy to say that liberalisation in aviation has been a glowing success , without ever recognising that there is also a negative side .
my group accepts that gradual liberalisation is a way forward but only if safety , working conditions and passenger rights are safe-guarded and strengthened .
my group welcomes the latest decision by the commission to launch a campaign to inform passengers of their rights - something which the airlines in particular have failed to do over many years .
finally , my group looks forward to receiving from the commission its new proposals regarding slot-allocation , even though they have been a long time in coming .
mr president , the report we are discussing today deals with the results of the liberalisation of the air transport sector in the european union , which was concluded in 1993 .
we have supported this liberalisation process so that bilateral barriers may be lifted , ownership restrictions changed , technical standards harmonised , and suitable safety standards established and so that the conditions of liberalisation may promote greater transparency with regard to how air transport development policy is framed and allow , above all , the inclusion of environmental considerations in production within the aeronautical industry , in tariff policy and in the management of air traffic .
a key point raised by the rapporteur is the current situation in which , while the aviation industry is liberalised and operates in an open european market , the authorities which control the air space , the airports and the regulating bodies , as well as the companies providing services to the air transport sector , still operate from an excessively local point of view .
we must not forget that european airspace is a mosaic made up of 15 sovereign member states , which , for a variety of reasons , mainly military , find it difficult to relinquish part of their sovereignty in this area .
this proposal , aside from abrogating the sovereign right of each country over its own air space , will give rise to confusion and will have particularly negative and dangerous repercussions on air safety as , objectively speaking , the competition which is being vaunted here as the trump card will be competition for maximum profit and not for maximum air safety .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we have seen that the aim of mr sterckx ' s report was to guarantee security , safety , consumer protection , fair competition and environmental protection .
furthermore , paragraph 8 calls for , and i quote , " the operational bodies responsible for atc to be privatised " .
we are totally opposed to any kind of further privatisation , which could exacerbate the already deteriorating working conditions , in this area which is so closely linked to passenger safety .
to conclude , in order to guarantee the primacy of safety regulations over all other considerations , air traffic control must remain a public and national service .
it has come , i believe , at a time when the aviation industry is very much in the limelight , what with the takeover agreement between swiss air and sabena , the breakdown of the marriage between klm and alitalia , as well as the vicissitudes surrounding malpensa .
it is estimated that air traffic will double in the next fifteen years .
what is actually preventing us from taking a number of additional measures , except for a powerful lobby of airline companies and a misconceived concept of sovereignty in some countries which refuse to let go of the management of their own national airspace ?
mr president , first of all i would like to thank our colleague , dirk sterckx , who has put an enormous amount of work into a report which is extremely important as it is a policy document that will lead to a great deal of further discussion .
i live in bordeaux , but it is more expensive for me to fly from there to lisbon than to fly to new york via paris , and if i wish to fly to any other french city , i have to change aeroplanes at an airport in paris .
mr president , the resolution submitted for parliament ' s consideration on air transport contains serious dangers which i should like to highlight .
the resolution gives the green light to the deregulation of air transport and sees the privatisation of the main body of airlines and the development of unbridled competition as something positive .
instead of establishing a joint transport development plan , the european union , using an intermodal approach between air and rail , has , quite to the contrary , moved towards privatisation and deregulation .
the result of this is traffic saturation and pollution and , at the same time , a deterioration in working conditions and in the status of those employed in air transport , as companies subcontract as many of their activities as possible in order to minimise social costs .
the atm 2000 report summarises the financial aims of this approach and it is pretty bad .
this is why we are opposed to this resolution , which in fact seeks to place air traffic control in the clutches of the financial interests of large companies , to the detriment of passenger safety .
the importance of this is clearly illustrated by the increase in the number of airlines or the increase , much less spectacular perhaps , but significant nevertheless , in the number of routes where there are more than two competitors .
airlines have developed innovative strategies in order to adapt to the growth of the market and the challenges of competition , but despite their restructuring efforts they still suffer a large degree of fragmentation and financial fragility in comparison with their principal international competitors , and i am referring specifically to the us airlines .
it has appealed against them at the court of justice and i hope that the judgement of the court will allow us to put an end to this situation and do what we have to do : enter into a bilateral agreement with the united states as the european union as a whole , as a single internal market , and not divided up into different countries .
one of the objectives of the negotiation of a common transatlantic air space is precisely to resolve , by common agreement with the united states , the current situation caused by the unilateral actions of the different countries which have signed up to these agreements .
it is true that the commission authorised the injection of public capital - only once , as a one-off and subject to strict conditions - with the aim of helping companies to effectively carry out the transition from a regulated market to an open market .
companies have been able to confront the situation and liberalisation has significantly benefited consumers , although it is true that it has not benefited all consumers in the same way ; for example , it has provided less benefit in relation to short-haul business trips where undoubtedly the lowest fares are not usually adequate and cannot be used .
i would like to end by referring to some of the questions that have been raised .
the issue of gibraltar and the agreements reached recently by the two countries involved do not affect transport .
in this regard , therefore , the situation remains as it was before that bilateral agreement between these two countries of the union .
on the other hand , the question of slot allocation must be the subject of a commission proposal since we cannot accept the current situation , in which many slots are lost , not all of them are properly used and , furthermore , let us be honest , there is a black market in them .
we will make a proposal to the effect that slot allocation should be an administrative right granted under licence .
the environment is a key issue in the development of aviation and , of course , efficiency in the consumption of fuel per passenger is improving every day , although it is true that the growth in air transport is exceeding the improvements achieved in efficiency .
lastly , i would like to make it clear that our primary concern , despite the fact that i have left it to the end , is safety .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
i would remind you that the vote on this matter will take place on 17 may 2000 .
at the moment , therefore , while parliament has still not taken a position on administrative reform - which we are observing with great attention and which we all hope will , this time , truly be a great success - i wish to say that it is appropriate at this stage to watch how the commission is putting these good intentions , these projects to reform the appointments policy , into practice .
to give another example , it cannot be put down to merit that there are 22 a1 or a2 spaniards and 16 belgian ones .
it is important that in a procedure which needs to be transparent , merit is easily explicable and comprehensible .
nobody would say - i certainly would not - that the fact that there are so few a1 or a2 women is due to an assessment of merit .
i must tell my friends that behind every great woman there is a great man , because everybody knows that my wife is worth much more than i am .
it is important that we fulfil the commitment to double the number of female appointments .
the honourable member is , i know , very clear about the fact that responsibility for employment policies and patterns in the commission , as a separate institution , lies with the commission itself .
however , in order to provide useful information to this house and to the wider public , i am glad to respond to the two questions which the honourable member has put down .
to provide comprehensive detail , that paper also sets out the total number of senior officials from each nationality in the commission and of the total numbers of all a grade staff of each nationality in the commission .
a copy of that paper has also been provided to the secretariat-general of this parliament for information and , naturally , it will be generally available to honourable members .
in this oral answer , therefore , i will summarise the situation relating to senior appointments as at last thursday , 27 april .
since the present commission took office , six appointments have been made involving promotions to grade a1 .
there have been fourteen other transfers at director-general or deputy director-general level , which did not involve promotion in grade , although in four cases relating to spanish , french , german and british officials , the changes meant advances in responsibility to full director-general posts .
in summary therefore , a total of 25 promotions to senior appointments have been made since this commission took office .
these figures are accurate as of 27 april 2000 .
as the house will know , in an international and multinational institution like the commission , it is essential , as the honourable member said , that the allocation of jobs broadly reflects the diversity of the union that we serve and uses abilities effectively .
in response to the honourable member ' s second question relating to the rules and criteria applied to senior appointments , i draw the attention of the house to the decisions on the subject which the commission adopted and published last september and last december .
against this background the following information may be useful to the house : the guiding principle of the system which the commission uses is that appointments to all senior posts will be determined on evidence of the merit of candidates , including managerial capacity and other relevant abilities .
candidates for a1 and a2 jobs are interviewed by a panel of senior officials which has been assisted in the lifetime of this commission by an advisory external expert with relevant experience in executive selection .
the commissioner responsible for personnel then formally proposes to the college the candidate who has been agreed upon with the portfolio commissioner and with the president of the commission .
i can confirm that all appointments made by this commission have been in accordance with these rules which are themselves based on article 29 of the staff regulations and that will continue to be the course followed .
to achieve your objectives of moving the commission towards a world-leading international public service , it is clear that the appointments and capabilities of your team are going to be critical .
you say in your white paper that there is a real need to raise management skills and create a common management culture across the commission .
if you ask me , you would be shooting the commission in the foot and , in my opinion , you would be shooting yourself in the foot more so than the commission and this is not helpful .
one can enter into a large-scale discussion on the decisions taken today with regard to the nationalities of the people who have been moved , appointed or who have left .
mr president , in september the commission adopted some excellent principles which were to be applied with regard to its staffing policy , and particularly in the appointment of senior officials , but let us now examine today ' s appointments in the light of those fine principles .
commissioner kinnock faithfully made a list of the commission ' s senior appointments and promotions , but , commissioner , you did not say how many women were nominated for , or promoted to , these posts .
it may be that the decisions you adopted this morning have in some way assuaged the group ' s thirst for knowledge , but this chamber appears to be unusually empty for a debate on such a major issue .
the new commission has been in office for only seven months .
the question we really have to ask here is not to the commission but to the ppe group as to the motivation behind the question .
i believe that this commission is very open to taking on board some - i hope all - of parliament ' s concerns and criticisms , because we have criticisms too .
the pse group want to engage in a constructive debate because we are interested in the outcome of reform , not in scoring short-term political points that do nothing but damage the european union .
turning very quickly to the substance of the questions : in the commission hearings the european parliament asked for rotation of a1 and a2 posts and to end national flags on senior jobs .
the commission has taken positive steps since they came into power , ensuring that appointments are made on the basis of merit .
finally , i would like to ask the ppe group to refrain from such politically motivated and unconstructive questions as we have here .
thank you very much , mrs morgan .
since the commission delved into the details on 27 april , perhaps we can be told how many men and women there are in category a posts , not in category a posts generally , but broken down by grade , i.e .
mr president , could i thank the honourable members in all parts of the house for the constructive contributions they have made in the course of this debate .
perhaps i could risk some superficiality , because of the time , by trying to answer the specific questions raised .
but to do that comprehensively will require amendments to the staff regulations and i am looking forward to the cooperation of parliament and the council in gaining the changes in community legislation which are necessary to facilitate that further development .
i can only say that i welcome the opportunity to provide comprehensive information .
having such rules would obviously be the best means of ensuring transparency , consistency and practical guidance which would be in the interests of all parties , especially when , as members have reminded us in the course of the debate , member states and institutions are increasingly keen to encourage more exchange between national and eu administrations and between the public and private sectors .
naturally , when i have a proposal to make for new and improved arrangements , i will put them to my colleagues in the commission and subsequently report them to this house and the other institutions for consideration .
so in legal , procedural and employment policy terms , the use of the panel system for promotion and appointment purposes was not required by the existing law in the case of appointments of that kind .
of the 25 very senior appointments that have been made by this commission since last september , 4 have been of women officials .
i would only say that since that is nearly 20 % of the total number of appointments , we are on target for this year ' s commitment to ensure that we achieve at least a 20 % advance in the number of women who are appointed .
it is significant that the island country , the larger island country , secured in the course of these months under this commission no additional appointments at a1 level by promotion .
the boot-shaped country obtained two such appointments - the boot-shaped country obtained 4 a2 promotions in this period and the big island obtained 5 , of which , to the best of my knowledge , none came from wales .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday 17 may 2000 .
i have to say that this attitude has also been adopted by the various political groups .
mr president , i would like to stress that , by approving the council ' s common position on electronic commerce tomorrow , this house will be showing a very great degree of political responsibility of great institutional significance .
furthermore , by approving this directive , parliament will be taking a decisive step in favour of the competitiveness of european businesses in the ' on line ' economy and will be setting a milestone so that both consumers and companies will be able to operate in the internal market with the same guarantees and the same ease with which they operate in their domestic markets .
the directive ensures that companies and citizens are able to provide and receive information society services throughout the european union , which will thereby become a genuinely border-free area .
european companies will be able to offer goods , services and information within the union in accordance with the regulations of the member state in which they are established and , therefore , in normalised circumstances , without being bound by 14 different sets of legislation .
mr president , the directive includes - and this is important - all information society services , both business to business and business to user services , such as those which allow electronic operations to take place - interactive telesales of goods and services , on-line ' shops ' , for example ; services which are offered free , such as those financed through advertising or sponsorship , the on-line press , on-line databases , on-line financial services , on-line professional services - lawyers , doctors or other professionals - leisure services such as video on demand , direct marketing and all services accessed via the internet .
the common position , therefore , maintains the balance between the various general objectives and the various interests , and we have not therefore tabled any amendments .
lastly , the development of new technologies and market-related innovations make it essential that we establish a legal framework for the development of commerce , while , as this directive ensures , areas are set aside which are suitable for self-regulation and for the development of specific codes of conduct .
lastly , several member states are already legislating in this area and , without this directive , we could see a genuine fragmentation of the internal market .
the legal framework established by this directive will facilitate the adoption of other community directives , such as the one on copyright , the distance marketing of financial services or the controversial brussels convention on jurisdiction , and will clearly help to remove the risk of incompatibility between these initiatives and the principles of the internal market .
parliament intends to monitor closely the transposition and application of the directive in national legislations , and i have therefore included two recommendations , two reminders to the commission , which i hope will be approved tomorrow , not within the framework of the directive , but within the framework of the legislative resolution ; one on the procedures for the detection and withdrawal of illicit material , and another on the drafting of codes of conduct .
lastly , mr president - and with this i will end - it is symbolic that parliament is approving this directive on the eve of the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the declaration by robert schuman , in which he stated that europe would not be created in an instant but through achieving specific objectives which would create genuine solidarity between citizens and businesses .
fifty years ago , ' specific objectives ' referred to the european coal and steel community ; today , as this directive points out , they refer to the information society .
mr president , commissioner , first let me thank the rapporteur , on behalf also of my political group , for this report and for the strategy she proposes , namely to accept this common position as it stands .
we have to aspire to the establishment of the highest quality of e-businesses in europe .
e-commerce is in its early stages .
i have some sympathy with commissioner bolkestein here today .
we are dealing with the creation of a new medium and therefore one which creates an urgent and acute need for regulation and for common regulation on a grand scale .
in these circumstances we should welcome the chance to bring in an effective regulation on e-commerce .
we have a system that is going to be operated by the users and the point i want to make this evening in now thinking ahead , because we are confident we are going to get this directive through , is to say to the commission that we need to have a very comprehensive and a very fast feedback from the users about the problems and issues that they are encountering in using this directive .
we want to know where consumers have had problems and feel that their rights are not protected .
i say to both of them , and in particular to representatives of the council here , we have risen to that challenge and we now expect member governments to behave with the same speed to get this legislation transposed .
we encourage the commission and the council to get the remaining bits of that legislation to us as quickly as possible because that is what europe needs .
commission , parliament and council have had ample time to discuss and debate at both first and second reading and , as the rapporteur said , most of parliament ' s views now feature in the council common position .
this therefore means we need to create a clear and simple , predictable and consistent legal framework for electronic commerce .
concerns still exist but i believe that council , commission and parliament have struck the right balance between the need to protect public policy and consumers and at the same time promote and support the growth of e-business .
we have in this directive an article which allows us to do that .
article 21 of the common position provides for a review and we should use the time until then to deepen and further our knowledge on this critical sector of the european economy .
mr president , commissioner , e-commerce offers the european union a unique chance to stimulate economic growth , strengthen the industry ' s competitiveness and create new jobs .
the legal framework of the internal market plays a crucial role in this .
the country of origin principle is one of the internal market ' s cornerstones .
i would like a reply to this question .
some of the concerns that have been expressed here tonight , particularly about dealing with illegal content and consumer acceptance , need to be being already pursued by the commission before we adopt this fully as a european directive .
the european economic and social model , which is based on the social market economy , is quite capable of dealing with world-wide competition , provided that it succeeds in evolving , eliminating all the unnecessary rigid constraints which are responsible for its continuing weakness in some areas .
this potential for growth is our challenge for the future !
however , we are not alone in the world ; e-commerce means competition , not only for companies but also for politicians .
the development of information technology provides new opportunities to communicate and to disseminate information simply and cheaply .
at european level , the creation of the european single market and the introduction of the euro are certainly decisive factors in the promotion of electronic business .
however , it also creates a new situation , to which industry and national legislators will have to adjust .
as has been mentioned this evening , e-commerce and online business are developing very rapidly and it is very important that we put in place a legislative framework in europe within which it can develop and flourish .
professor maccormick said that there seems to be a very great deal of agreement about the need to go forward without amending this proposal .
on this occasion i do not believe we are wrong to approach this matter in that way and i hope this parliament will agree with me with a big majority .
i therefore believe it is fundamental that we bear in mind that the bulk of this success stems from the creation of new companies , the creation of small- and medium-sized enterprises .
therefore , in the review which is carried out , it is essential that we remember not only the consumers - who in any event must make their own decisions and must use mechanisms for encrypting and protecting their data in accordance with laws and with technology - but also the smes , because otherwise there will soon be little electronic commerce in europe .
it therefore seems essential to make a genuine effort to homogenise the rules of the internal market and , at the same time , work energetically to unify the principles applied on a global level with regard to electronic commerce .
mr president , commissioner , mrs palacio vallelersundi , ladies and gentlemen , i say ' yes ' to the directive and ' yes ' to the rapporteur ' s strategy , for it is thanks to that consistent approach that i too have withdrawn my amendment .
the electronic market is a prime market in terms of growth , employment and future prospects , and not just in europe .
let me pick up on two points of detail that are very close to my heart and where i would have liked to see the common position worded more clearly .
as far as i am concerned , the question of e-commerce in medicines and the protection of cultural diversity will be an important issue in the review scheduled in three years ' time , which i welcome .
the directive in hand is immensely important as regards the competitiveness of the eu .
wisdom is not always a characteristic of politicians , be they in the commission , the council , or in this chamber .
parliament ' s approach to this directive and the effect parliament has had on bringing about the common position could well serve as a model for future cooperation between the institutions .
i would like to thank those members of this house who , in turn , have thanked the commission for the work it has done .
i probably do not need to stress the urgency with which clear and flexible legislation is needed for e-commerce within the european union .
many in this house , especially the rapporteur , mrs palacio , have emphasised this aspect for the benefit of small- and medium-sized businesses .
it will also have a favourable effect on the european industry ' s competitive position within the global market and this aspect too has been stressed by a number of members in this house .
furthermore , the directive strikes a very precise balance between all private and public interests involved .
parliament has not tabled any amendments and has thus paved the way for a swift approval .
parliament tabled a number of amendments at first reading which proved to make a positive contribution to the common position and which elucidated and reinforced the commission ' s original proposal .
those amendments have been incorporated in the commission ' s amended proposal and subsequently in the common position .
it should also be stressed that parliament ' s rapid approval of this directive without any further amendments was made possible thanks to the excellent cooperation between the rapporteur , the finnish presidency and the european commission .
the commission will be setting up a website with this goal in mind , thus enabling interactive exchange with all parties , with the intention of taking these remarks on board when this directive is up for review in three years ' time .
needless to say , this point is very closely linked to the provisions of the e-commerce directive which we are debating this evening , provisions which concern the liability of service providers .
the risk is there .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m .
food aid consignments should gradually be replaced by measures to improve food security in these countries .
i welcome the restrictions in the new convention , for our long-term aim must be to abolish the credit system completely .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mrs schierhuber , you have already mentioned the resolution on ethiopia .
these rules are now also incorporated in this international food aid agreement .
i am particularly pleased to read in the new convention that least-developed countries and low-income countries will be given priority when food aid is being allocated .
i am also pleased to see stronger provisions for promoting local agricultural development and local purchases as this also assists local economies and encourages local agriculture .
the institutional treaty-based arrangements for food aid are , in my view , still somewhat outdated and created with a world in mind where food aid was assumed to be a major feature of development and of humanitarian assistance and relief .
this will mean , and many of us said this in seattle in the debates , that we would require inter alia a food security clause in any future wto agreements on agriculture .
the fiori amendment is preoccupied with europe ' s own interests and is therefore wide of the mark .
one euro a day is enough for survival and offers a chance for the future .
mr president , i am , of course , in favour of food aid for starving people , despite the commercial operations that are hidden behind this aid and despite the conflicts of interest which divide rich countries on this issue .
work it out for yourself : european aid comes to around 7 kilos of wheat equivalent per person per year , which is less than twenty grammes per day , and the report is cynical enough to stress the fact that food aid must not discourage local production .
it would require an end to capital ' s dictatorship of europe as well as of africa , and the only reason why i have voted in favour of this report is in order not to stand in the way of this aid .
the endeavours of our predecessors in the community institutions succeeded in reducing the total number of undernourished people by over 20 % in the space of 30 years .
we must therefore congratulate ourselves on the fact that this issue is still on the agenda of the european parliament and the countries of the european union .
the purpose of the new 1999 food aid convention is to contribute to creating food security in the world and to enhance the international community ' s ability to respond more effectively to acute food crises and the food requirements of the developing countries .
my seventh point is that the new food aid convention is intended to improve the monitoring of the effectiveness and impact of food aid transactions and cooperation between food aid donors , recipients and others concerned .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
aid to uprooted people in asia and latin america the next item is the debate on the report ( a5-0065 / 2000 ) by mr deva , on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation , on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation ( ec ) extending regulation ( ec ) no 443 / 97 on operations to aid uprooted people in asian and latin american developing countries [ com ( 1999 ) 443 - c5-0146 / 1999 - 1999 / 0194 ( cod ) ] mr president , i am indeed privileged today to present this report to parliament .
all are waiting with bated breadth to hear my speech .
the extension we propose is for one year until 31 december 2000 .
the extension of the regulation will enable a further eur 40 million to be spent until the end of this year .
this regulation came to an end on 31 december 1999 .
by extending this regulation today for a further period of one year , we are also giving the commission time to prepare a new regulation which i hope will be a multiannual one to replace the existing regulation .
this new regulation , to be brought in at a later date , should build on , and take into account , the existing regulation as well the annual report and the evaluation which the commission has undertaken to present to parliament and council in the very near future , and no later than september .
the european parliament ' s original report on the current regulation , the howitt report , was exemplary in how it was constructed by parliament .
it had considerable success in improving the existing draft and thus played an important part in supporting and improving the text which was finally adopted .
notably , the parliament contributed to a strengthening of the regulation in its reference to environmental concerns , complementary support and cooperation and assisting local host populations , a strong approach for targeting support programmes towards women refugees , particularly those who have been the victims of rape , and a clear provision for the upholding of the " non-refoulement " principle , i.e .
mr howitt engaged then in a very positive dialogue with the irish presidency as well as with the commission in order to improve on the existing draft .
therefore the parliament played a major role in producing this regulation with its report .
support to uprooted people , refugees , returnees and internally displaced people in latin america and asian developing countries has been a feature of the community budget since 1984 .
the unhcr estimates that there are 4.8 million in asia and some 88 000 in latin america .
of these , the current regulation and the one year extension that our report today is calling for , will continue to help 2.9 million afghani refugees of whom about 40 % are in pakistan and iran and the 60 % balance in afghanistan itself .
a total of eur 24.3 million was given to afghani refugees with a further eur 960 000 to thailand , eur 6 million to sri lanka , eur 11.8 million to burma and eur 1.8 million to nepal .
we are now presented with a solution by this parliament , by our institutions in europe , where we want to and can help people where the problem is .
mr president , may i begin by stating how bizarre it is that we are debating the extension of a regulation tonight in may 2000 that already expired last december and which , under the commission ' s proposal , would again expire in seven months ' time .
as the rapporteur for this parliament on the original resolution four years ago , i cannot but comment that this represents a failure of political commitment in europe to aiding five million refugees , some of the poorest of the poor , in asia and in latin america .
nevertheless we are here now , and the socialist group supports the rapporteur ' s recommendation for adoption of this regulation with the minimum of amendments , already agreed in principle with the council , in order to allow a fast-track , one-reading approval of the extension , and in reality to allow refugee support projects this year to go ahead rather than be cancelled .
it is no good us debating conflict resolution in the parliament and then finding that the sole support to assist people when the guns are put down or when the period of immediate humanitarian assistance is at an end is then forgotten altogether .
for example in afghanistan , which has today broken all world records for refugees with six million people having left the country since 1992 , leaving the single largest and longest staying refugee population in the world .
the sort of forced displacement that we have seen in colombia i have seen too in chiapas in southern mexico where the presence of international aid workers is essential for the protection of human rights .
commissioner , of the eur 240 million , 40 % has been allocated to latin america which has less than 1 % of refugees in the world , while 60 % has been granted to asia which has 40 % of the displaced persons .
the most important prerequisite to a long-term solution for the problems outlined is sound coordination of member state efforts .
it is essential that annual reports are submitted by the commission to this parliament and to the council , as is specified .
the financial framework needs to be introduced in keeping with provisions already agreed to .
these provisions must be strictly adhered to and this change is absolutely necessary .
without this amendment , the commission could get away with not having submitted a single evaluation report since the regulation came into force in 1997 .
it is common to all the speakers in the chamber and to others outside that it is an excellent report but , speaking for myself , i would not have expected any less from my honourable friend .
it supports projects implemented by international organisations like the un and the unhcr and ngos and these measures are designed to improve living conditions , not only for returnees but also for the communities into which they will integrate .
the final evaluation report will be submitted to the parliament by september of this year .
however , concerning the first amendment i would like to stress again that the draft of the activity report has already been made available to the committee on development and cooperation and that official submission will take place next june at the latest .
the commission agrees with amendments two and three since they reflect the existing framework of interinstitutional cooperation with regard to budgetary discipline and comitology .
we believe however , that given the late contracting of the 1999 programme , which means that some activities are only now getting under way , it would be better to finalise the report , which must be a thorough and comprehensive document , a month or two later , say by september .
however , as you know , the evaluation is already under way and i will make any interim reports available as soon as they are produced .
i hope that parliament would be willing to agree this approach .
there have been references to the new regulation .
too often , in my experience of just seven months , we undertake to do things without having first made sure that we have got the resources to carry them through and it is important for us to be honest about what we want to do and how we can achieve it .
i can assure honourable members that i have taken account of the criticisms and of the aspirations that have been expressed during the course of this debate .
i am old enough and experienced enough in political life to recognise the difference between a standing ovation and a raspberry , or a bronx cheer as the americans would call it , and i do not wish to sit through another debate about a subject as important as this and hear it dominated by well-meant criticisms .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 11a.m .
on the free movement of persons ( 9748 / 1999 - c5 0197 / 2000 1999 / 0103 ( avc ) ) ; 2 .
on air transport ( 9749 / 1999 - c5 0198 / 2000 - 1999 / 0104 ( avc ) ) ; 3 .
on the carriage of goods and passengers by rail and road ( 9750 / 1999 - c5 0199 / 2000 - 1999 / 0105 ( avc ) ) ; 4 .
on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the european atomic energy community , of the one part , and the swiss confederation , of the other part ( 9751 / 1999 - c5 0200 / 2000 - 1999 / 0106 ( avc ) ) ; 5 .
on certain aspects relating to public procurement ( 9752 / 1999 - c5 0201 / 2000 - 1999 / 0107 ( avc ) ) ; 6 .
on trade in agricultural products ( 9753 / 1999 - c5 0202 / 2000 - 1999 / 0108 ( avc ) ) ; 7 .
as you are aware , this project was blocked by the swiss referendum in december 1992 , when , albeit by a very narrow majority , the swiss citizens decided to block the entry of the swiss confederation into the european community .
however , i would also like to point out to the house that the citizens of switzerland will , once again , be called upon to pronounce judgement on this package of agreements , and , therefore , also on relations with the european union , in the referendum on 21 may next .
however , i feel it is highly significant that parliament is voting on and approving the texts - if that is the decision of the house , as it was the largely unanimous decision of the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy and as it is the desire of all the parliamentary committees which have expressed their opinion - and giving its assent before the swiss referendum on 21 may .
in my opinion , it is politically significant - and , for this , all thanks go to the chairman of the committee on industry and the staff which have made it possible - that parliament is going to vote before 21 may , for this will present the swiss citizens with a sure , well-defined legal framework on which to pronounce judgement .
in this connection , i would just mention , for example , the right of entry , the right of establishment , the opportunity to enter the labour market , the coordination of social security systems , the right of establishment for non-gainfully employed people and students , together with new opportunities for cross-border workers .
we view these agreements , especially the agreement concerning the free movement of persons , as being very important in the context of cooperation between the eu and switzerland .
mr president , i too want to thank the rapporteur for his report and congratulate him .
the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism as a whole is pleased about this agreement because it was well known how very difficult it was to reach a transport agreement which established a fair balance between competition and the environment and which would also produce a satisfactory solution for both sides .
here we must note , with regard to air transport , that switzerland is , of course , already a member of numerous international conferences and organisations and has therefore incorporated in its legislation quite a few aspects of what we in the eu regard as the acquis communautaire .
the transport committee regards it as a small weakness that the duty-free agreement is not applicable to switzerland in this case .
eventually it will replace this system with a road tax , of approximately eur 200 on average .
but what the transport committee considered even more important was that this agreement points the way to a transport policy entirely in line with that of the eu : reducing the burden on the roads while supporting transport by rail .
mr president , the social democrats group and i myself most emphatically welcome this agreement between the european community , on the one hand , and the swiss confederation , on the other .
the conclusion of the bilateral negotiations with switzerland will put the union ' s relations with switzerland on a new footing , and we all hope that , in a few weeks ' time , the swiss people will give their assent to these agreements .
unfortunately , european union governments have paid too little attention to this issue until now .
i hope all this will change in the near future .
first there was the council of europe at strasbourg , which divided in two when france , germany , italy and the benelux countries formed the european coal and steel community .
the first agreement on the european economic area was offered to the efta countries .
so the only countries remaining in the eea were iceland , norway and liechtenstein .
negotiations are now under way regarding the future accession of twelve countries to the european union .
it is strange that neither switzerland nor any of the eea countries are among them , although they would be the best suited of all to join .
but perhaps these seven agreements are a preparation for that debate and i very much hope that just as parliament will be approving these seven agreements by a large majority tomorrow - or so i assume - the swiss people will also approve them by a large majority on 21 may in order to make it clear that switzerland is part of europe .
that is something the european parliament could organise .
parliament could take the initiative and invite parliamentarians from these countries , so that we can know in advance what input the swiss can contribute , what problems they may have , what proposals they may have .
mr president , the attendance in this chamber shows that there is no dispute about this agreement , that members want it , and i am sure we will vote for switzerland and for this agreement by a great majority tomorrow .
after over 50 years of a policy of peace , the german foreign minister acting as president of the council has called on the military to take a decision .
the decision with regard to austria was taken without any de facto participation by the commission , without the participation of the council and , of course , without the participation of parliament .
in fact , austria was always seen as the blue-eyed boy in matters of human rights and democracy .
but it has been a useful debate which has reflected the importance of the subject .
we are extremely satisfied that parliament has given this verbal approval to the seven agreements with switzerland .
the outcome of those negotiations has been excellent and i am delighted that parliament has reacted in the way that it has .
they unblock the stalemate in the relations with one of our closest neighbours and our second biggest trading partner .
i am glad that parliament has found the result of the negotiations to be in general so positive but we have also taken note of some more critical remarks , especially regarding cooperation in the fight against transit fraud , cigarette smuggling and other fiscal crimes , where you want to see our swiss friends doing much more .
the commission has repeatedly stated that we see a rapid solution to this problem as the prerequisite for any further agreements in other areas .
i want to assure all honourable members that we have taken account of the detailed concerns that have been expressed in this useful debate and of the other comments that we have received on these negotiations .
it would be constitutionally indelicate i am sure for me to urge them to vote in one way or the other but i do very much hope that these negotiations which have been conducted in good faith and have led to very satisfactory outcomes will be endorsed by the people of switzerland .
i am sure that the assent of the european parliament will be very helpful in this respect in encouraging people in switzerland to vote on may 21 in what we all think would be the right way .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 11a.m .
a civil war and the repercussions of the economic crisis in russia have been paralysing the country for a long time now .
the commission deserves praise for having proposed a considerable increase in financial aid to moldova at the suggestion of the world bank and the international monetary fund .
for example , moldova relies totally on russian imports of energy , and is consequently tied by a leash to russian energy companies .
the eu must do all it can to make it clear to the duma that withdrawing russian troops from moldova would enhance the country ' s stability .
that is a maximum annual figure of eur 200 million from the guarantee fund .
this causes problems for possible new loans from the european union , because this ceiling is inflexible .
the aim should be that parliament and the council agree on priorities concerning the use of left-over margins , and that a procedure should be agreed in order to make any changes to these principles .
in the case of macro-financial aid , the commission appears to have considerable faith in the ability of the international institutions - the imf and the world bank - to evaluate the economic situation in whatever countries are concerned .
the role of these institutions is perhaps too important , and the commission often automatically accepts conditions imposed by others on these loans .
the russian energy company gazprom suspended gas supplies because moldova could not pay its bills in german marks and us dollars .
the russian crisis on 17 august 1998 had an enormous effect on moldova .
our group supports the rapporteur ' s views .
as has been said here several times , the situation in moldova is extremely difficult .
these achievements , however , cannot begin to conceal moldova ' s extremely difficult transformation process from ex-soviet republic to democratic constitutional state based on a social market economy .
also , amendment no 1 tabled by the competent committee seems to clash with the objective of this specific long-term loan .
the european union is prepared to invest eur 15 million , equivalent to sek 120 million , in a long-term loan .
the desire is for this to be given to europe ' s poorest country , which has a gross national product as low as that of the poorest countries in africa .
according to the swedish professor , per ronnas , moldova has seen a more devastating peacetime fall in its standard of living than any other country in modern times .
it is true that today , we are talking about macro-financial assistance , therefore , with clearly defined objectives , which will undoubtedly improve the financial room for manoeuvre so that we can tackle the other difficulties such as those which you have raised during tonight ' s debate .
of the amendments presented in the report , the commission has no difficulty in accepting amendments nos 1 to 4 referring to the final objective of the aid , the need for a coherent approach in our various instruments for community assistance and the need for social balance in that assistance .
therefore , the commission will support these amendments in the council and i hope they can be taken forward .
amendments nos 5 , 6 and 8 advocate the establishment of a new committee to control this type of aid .
the creation of specific ad hoc committees would achieve less and would not be as effective as the current model .
the commission ' s concern , as i see it , that it should be provided with figures for the budgetary debate should not cause any difficulty , since every six months , a report is sent to the budgetary authority on the guarantees covered by the general budget along with an annual report on the management of the guarantee fund .
that concludes the debate .
i shall add that we should try , in our plenary sitting , to preserve the consensus which emerged in committee when voting on this report , in order to ensure that the european parliament thereby gives a strong political message as to its commitment in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy .
mr president , i am sure that we are all aware that piracy and counterfeiting constitute a very serious problem .
it may be premature for the european parliament to enunciate its position on certain points , the precise content of which will emerge from the debate which is now beginning , but in some cases , it may be appropriate to establish this content .
it is this : there are those who would say that this debate embraces the debate about copyright and trademarks .
mr president , this report is extremely late in coming , given that the commission ' s green paper was adopted on 15 october 1998 .
after all , piracy is commonly thought to be a trivial offence : people might think of calvin klein t-shirts or rayban sunglasses that one can buy for next to nothing on some far-flung beach , or they might think of cds that one can easily get hold of on the quiet .
they are two different things .
mr president , dismayed as i am at the prejudice displayed towards austria by 14 member states , but also at the stance adopted by the president of the european parliament as regards this matter , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report and endorse the majority of her findings .
this tends to emphasise the need to harmonise more than is appropriate or necessary in the circumstances .
what is more , criminal organisations seem to be becoming increasingly involved in the trade in counterfeit products and those obtained through piracy , and this is causing the business community to lose confidence in the single market , leading , in turn , to a decline in investment .
the economic and social committee , which also has a role to play here of course , produced a positive opinion on the green paper in february 1999 and various proposals from the green paper were incorporated in this opinion .
afterwards , and in the light of our experiences , let us see to what extent it is necessary to uphold and strengthen these measures .
the debate is closed .
the european union established the high representative for bosnia-herzegovina and the un set up an interim administration in kosovo - that now coordinate and manage all civilian activities and all the work done out there .
the 2000 budget has made a total of eur 28 million available for these projects in bosnia-herzegovina , and has made eur 12.5 million available for unmik , which is the un transitional administration in kosovo .
it is to be welcomed that we are to transfer this part of the interim civilian administration within the scope of the union ' s foreign policy to the first pillar , thereby involving parliament more extensively in the common foreign and security policy .
as a parliament , we will have the opportunity in future to put funds in this political field in reserve and to influence and play a part in the enforcement of particular measures .
if we were to go along with this , then we would forfeit all hope of being able , firstly , to emphasise the special significance of the civil aspect and , secondly , to communitarise the common foreign and security policy in the long term , in the context of the interplay between civil and military crisis management , because we would then be committing ourselves to going in an entirely different direction , as is very much the trend in many national capitals these days .
the proposal under discussion today is intended to provide a legal basis at community level to cover the financing of the united nations ' interim mission in kosovo and of the office of the high representative in bosnia-herzegovina .
we are talking very large amounts : eur 28 million for the office of the high representative , 53 % of which is actually to be funded by the european union , and eur 12 million to be funded by unmik ( united nations interim administration mission in kosovo ) .
mr president , this specific proposal concerns support for those bodies which the international community must unfortunately establish now and again , either to take care of interim civilian administration in regions affected by conflict or to implement peace agreements .
we are already involved in two cases , through the high representative for bosnia-herzegovina and through the eu ' s participation in the un ' s transitional administration in kosovo .
the major part of the eu ' s operations in kosovo , for example , will , of course , be concerned with actual reconstruction , but the eu must , naturally , also assume responsibility for those bodies which are required if there is to be a return to a society with a functioning civilian administration , able , in the long run , to become a democratic society cooperating closely with both the eu and the other balkan countries .
we therefore demand a rethink , firstly of the legal basis for the aid provided by the union and , secondly , of the way in which we are actually to use those resources which have traditionally been allocated within the sphere of foreign policy but which belong , rather , under the first pillar and category 4 .
if the commission ' s proposal and the council ' s wishes are to be complied with and a new budget item created , and if this is , moreover , to be provided with additional net financing , it will be necessary to consult parliament and carry out a proper budget procedure .
i think that the sum of 27 million we are talking about here emphasises the need to review the budget .
i believe that most people judging the issue , possibly with the exception of the council , would consider it impossible to use this aid in its entirety within the framework of the budget ' s current category 4 .
against this background , we support the laschet report .
the intention is to transfer these appropriations from the common foreign and security policy in the second pillar to the first pillar , to be financed from the commission ' s budget .
category 4 is already overloaded .
kosovo is a ravaged country .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i do not intend to use up all the time between now and the votes at 11 a.m .
that is what the debate on whether it should be established in the first or third pillars is all about .
the commission will also endeavour to fulfil the new task with existing personnel .
the commission is of the opinion that the financial and procedural regulations emanating from the high representative ' s office were improved during the course of 1999 .
as soon as the supplementary budget , which i am hoping the commission will approve on 10 may - i will present it in any case - has been adopted , it will be possible to rearrange the financing in the desired manner .
the debate is closed .
carraro recommendation ( a5-0118 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the eu-swiss confederation agreements not only because i feel that it is extremely important for switzerland , which will undoubtedly become part of the european union in what we hope will be the near future , to have agreements established with the member states of the union , but also because , when i think of switzerland , i feel a sense of relief .
following these requests , negotiations between switzerland and the european union resulted in a package of sectoral agreements .
this is all the more important since a referendum on the agreement on the free movement of persons is due to be held in switzerland on 21 may .
schierhuber report ( a5-0105 / 2000 ) madam president , the pensioners ' party voted in favour of the schierhuber report on the convention on european community food aid to the world .
laschet report ( a5-0111 / 2000 ) madam president , this report is chiefly concerned with providing the current situation in kosovo with the semblance of a legal basis and pseudo-democratic backing .
hatzidakis report ( a5-0076 / 2000 ) madam president , the pensioners ' party , which is part of the group of the european people ' s party , and i , myself , as its representative , voted for the hatzidakis report on the granting of community financial assistance in the field of trans-european networks , mainly because communications within our union are the single most important factor in the creation of europe and the most important issue where the principle of subsidiarity is applied in practice .
fourtou report ( a5-0096 / 2000 ) - ( nl ) protecting intellectual property rights is an important issue and so i applaud mrs fourtou for her report .
the harm suffered by the luxury goods industry is just the visible tip of the iceberg , probably also the least dangerous part .
according to the international chamber of commerce , the cost of counterfeiting represents between 5 and 7 % of world trade .
i do not share the opinion expressed in amendment no 8 , since i think that confiscating illegally copied goods , even if it is only a simple compact disc , may well serve as an example and be of instructional value , particularly with regard to young people , who must learn that copying is damaging to the artist whose works they like .
this consumer must be protected , so much is clear .
we thought it useful to adopt , in the form of amendments , other conclusions which were not adopted by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , particularly regarding the need for fast , effective civil law protection for intellectual property rights , and the need for realistic , appropriate and effective legislation on patents .
there was an explosion in a fireworks warehouse which has already caused at least sixteen deaths and has injured over six hundred people , six of whom are in a critical condition , with many more people reported missing .
i have contacted the dutch authorities to express our deepest sympathy , both in a personal capacity and on behalf of the european parliament .
i find this an example of european solidarity which is what we stand for in this parliament .
on behalf of the 31 delegates , i would also like to thank the commission which immediately expressed sympathy in the form of a letter from mr prodi to the municipality of enschede .
i also notified the spanish government of our utmost support in the fight against terrorism .
a request from the gue / ngl , the greens and the tdi to add a new sub-item entitled " tunisia " ; one from the ppe group to add an item on " spectator safety and the prevention of hooliganism at the forthcoming european football championship " ; and an item from the union for a europe of nations group to add a new sub-item entitled the " situation of bhutan refugees in nepal " .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the association agreement between the european union and tunisia has been in force since 1 march 1998 .
our group is therefore asking everyone to stop listening to the leaders of the two main parties , and instead to act like independently-minded adults and resolve at long last to have a debate on the situation in tunisia .
it would have been a good thing if , in the past , when the socialist group proposed an urgent debate on the situation in tunisia , we could have counted on the votes of those people who are protesting today , because we have not managed to have that urgency approved .
however , i would like to remind you - i was the first speaker at the last brussels part-session and i asked you , madam president , on behalf of all of us , to write to president ben ali of tunisia - that what we have to do now is wait for the president of tunisia to reply to you in your capacity as leader of this parliament .
i believe that if mr cohn-bendit , for example , wishes for a full debate on this question , he should support our proposal so that we can include it in the next agenda .
thank you , mr baron crespo .
a number of problems have already been raised by people such as the belgian police federation , and there have been many documentaries in various countries about various games and the security arrangements for euro 2000 .
however , that does mean that we have a problem in the short term , namely what we will be doing this coming friday .
thank you , mrs van der laan .
thank you , mr blak .
ladies and gentlemen , as you are well aware , we are not going to start a debate on this sensitive issue .
according to mrs van der laan , it is not the intention that we now pass judgement on an action regarding the use of the rules of procedure .
the first possibility is to scrap friday sittings altogether .
clearly , this last possibility will lead to situations in which other members can request that the quorum be checked , meaning that we will once again be unable to hold votes this coming friday .
thank you , mrs ahern , we shall take steps to ensure that this does not happen again .
madam president , i should like to respond to what my fellow member has just said .
there are members in the chamber who attend from monday to friday , and remain until the end of the sitting on friday .
the dutch group which made fridays a subject for discussion in this way did not do this because they are against strasbourg or anything like that .
this has also given rise to quite a major debate in my own country , sweden .
no , mrs van der laan , you ought to know that according to the rules of procedure , this is a request that should have been presented in due form and at the due time , and this was not the case .
it only remains for me to express the hope that there will be a good attendance this friday , votes or not .
it is in this spirit of optimism that we can begin this debate on our report on the prices for agricultural products in 2000 / 2001 .
in the past , this report was always the subject of fierce debates on farm incomes .
the commission is proposing to further reduce the additional charges on the intervention prices for cereals in two stages and then to fix them .
if we start to discuss the budget for 2001 in structural terms in september or october of this year , then it is essential to know what the commission has in mind for the sugar sector .
the proposals on setting institutional prices and monthly increments cover the products already mentioned .
in our group ' s view , the reduction in the monthly increments for cereals cannot be supported , not least because the commission ' s proposal undermines the berlin decisions on agenda 2000 .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , there is no longer much point in discussing the package of agricultural prices since the 1992 cap stipulated the gradual transition from a production price support system to a direct aid system , increasingly required to be dissociated from the production volumes .
and as agenda 2000 adopted and extended this approach , the establishment of agricultural prices is henceforth multiannual .
the same applies to moisture content in cereals .
the berlin agreement must continue to be our benchmark .
this is the principled position that the european union adopted in seattle with regard to its trading partners and competitors within the world trade organisation .
in particular , the european union must fulfil its commitments in order to enable european farmers to have a clear idea of the policy as it affects them , in order to be able to manage their farms as wisely as possible .
in this connection , then , i would urge the commission to provide us very quickly with its proposed reform of the com in sugar .
all these points which i mentioned are also backed by the liberal group .
if i am not mistaken , the agricultural budget only comprises one item of approximately eur 100 million for the control of animal diseases .
in anticipation of the budgetary discussions in september , we would like the commission to provide us with the necessary data so that we can take this into consideration in the discussions of the budgets for the year 2001 .
up until 2006 the commission should work on the basis of the realistic targets set and should deduce its financial needs from them .
to achieve its objectives , the commission should , in my view , be invited to present a report showing how costs have changed in the agricultural sector .
further developments will show whether the reform of the eu ' s agricultural policy by means of agenda 2000 is capable of achieving its overall aims or not .
mr president , notwithstanding the fact that agenda 2000 has set the parameters governing agriculture for the period up to 2006 , the annual price package is still very important .
to farmers the price received in the marketplace should represent the real value of their professional endeavours , rather than what they often perceive as social support for the products of their labour .
in this context the support for agriculture - it is substantial and i acknowledge that because it represents almost 50 % of the entire budget - must be seen also as a subsidy to consumers .
in recent weeks we have heard much talk about a review of the agricultural budget which was agreed in berlin only a few months ago .
i would also like to congratulate the commission on having included a multiannual element in the proposals .
nevertheless , although this is a little repetitive , i would like you to bear in mind and reconsider , with regard to cereals , both moisture content and the monthly price reviews , since they are issues which could cause us considerable harm .
there is also another question , and i feel that harsh words are required : every time a problem arises in this european union or in its political positions - positions which i do not question - we consider taking funds away from the agricultural budget .
with regard to table grapes , on 31 july aid expires for the production of juice , which is included in the com in wine .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , agenda 2000 has created a certain kind of stability for the european agricultural policy .
it is necessary for this parliament to make decisions on a new and ongoing agricultural policy after 2006 .
the question therefore is : what are the farmers doing about this ?
a blatant example is that of oil , which also concerns my country , and in particular my native island of lesbos .
the same applies to cotton where , although the minimum price is eur 101 per 100 kilos , greek producers will be paid less than eur 65 because of the co-responsibility levy .
i therefore think that this policy calls for caution , commissioner .
the impression they get is that we intend to make the farming sector increasingly less productive in economic terms .
there is one particular situation that i would like to highlight , which concerns the issue of fruit and vegetables and which is of particular importance to my country .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i should like to thank you , mrs jeggle , very much for your report .
unfortunately , i also have a problem with including mustard seed in the support system , as you propose in amendments nos 1 and 3 , because that would be contrary to the marrakech agreement .
this is a much more complex problem because here the commission had originally intended to make it possible precisely to transfer funds between the two sub-headings .
at the moment , however , we are , of course , still in the discussion phase ; the actual budget debate on the 2001 budget is yet to take place .
the rejection does not primarily or exclusively concern this issue of the 300 million ; the proposals as a whole were given a negative reception by ecofin .
mrs redondo asked a number of questions about the organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables , about nuts and about ornamental plants , and mr cunha asked about processed tomatoes .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
all the same , in my opinion , the commission proposals overshoot the mark a little .
the committee on agriculture and rural development adopted this report by a large majority .
mr president , according to mrs schierhuber ' s present report , if something goes wrong with a certain regulation in europe , in this case flax , it is quite possible to ensure that that regulation can remain intact by means of new proposals .
mr president , we agree with the objectives pursued in the commission ' s proposal on the new regulation on flax and hemp : to regulate and balance the markets , simplify the common agricultural policy and prevent fraud .
the inclusion of flax and hemp within the general regulations on herbaceous plants requires the establishment of a single yield for all areas of the european union .
with regard to aid for processing , we feel that it is completely inappropriate that there should be transitional aid for the processing of short-fibre flax , as the commission proposes , which would end in 2006 .
we believe that it should be long-term aid and that it should be brought into line with the aid for the processing of long-fibre flax , which is the only way of guaranteeing the commercial production of short-fibre flax in an industrial sector which provides a genuine alternative to synthetic products .
commissioner , we are in complete agreement on the need for stabilisers with regard to this crop , but we completely disagree with the national guaranteed quantities established in the commission ' s proposal , since we feel that they are absolutely inadequate and represent quite the opposite of the actual situation in each of the countries .
we are therefore voting against the report with regard to the disappearance of these contracts .
in an unstable agricultural industry , the opportunities offered by flax and hemp in a developing market for natural fibres should not be lost .
in my own nation , wales , flax processing plants are already being established using european union aid .
for example , 80 % of the land mass of my nation , wales , is non-arable .
the importance of flax production being subsidised in such areas of the european union cannot be overemphasised .
i would like to thank the rapporteur for accepting our amendments in this regard .
i congratulate the rapporteur and call on the european parliament to support the agriculture committee 's report .
the elimination of aid for short-fibre flax would hinder the innovative non-food use of agricultural products , fundamentally affecting regions with low rainfall and more difficult conditions .
the production costs for long-fibre flax are higher than those for short-fibre flax and for hemp .
but the cereal support level is too low for long-fibre flax and therefore acts as a disincentive to producers to grow this flax variant .
firstly , the commission is explaining the need for the reform in terms of an increase in budgetary cost .
the commission proposal offers a good , coherent and precise analysis of the sector in the european union .
it explains the importance of flax and hemp production from both an economic and an ecological point of view .
however , it seems to me that the commission ' s considerations with regard to hemp fibre and short-fibre flax are not very realistic , either as regards its future viability or its range of uses .
if we were to follow that route , the european union , which already falls short in terms of using this type of fibre , would cease to use it altogether , at least in some countries .
with regard to payment for processing , i cannot agree with the commission ' s proposal , either in terms of the distinction between short- and long-fibre flax or its proposals for hemp .
it has been suggested that the land eligibility rules should be disregarded for flax and hemp so that any land could be used for those crops , but without an increase in the base area .
this would allow expansion , should market conditions encourage growth , and allow new growers to enter the market .
encouraging initiatives have been taken in this field and large investments have been made in various countries .
the only problem is that if you cut the flax premium to the level of the cereals premium and the set-aside premium , then no more flax or hemp will be cultivated in the eu and that will be that .
mr fischler , i am curious to hear whether you are going to accept the proposals made by the rapporteur - and i should like to thank her for her report .
if you say that you cannot accept them , we will react tomorrow and then we will have to negotiate this sound proposal from the committee on agriculture and rural development at another level .
the commission proposes that aid for hemp should be reduced in three phases to the level of aid that has been set for cereals .
i now turn to the first proposal on including flax and hemp grown for fibre in the arable crops regulation .
the same goes for amendment no 37 which is along the same lines .
i can accept amendment no 6 on hemp .
however , irregular plots cannot simply stop being subject to checks altogether , as is recommended , at least implicitly , in amendments nos 5 and 16 and i cannot therefore agree to these amendments .
however , at the present time , i do not wish to agree to amendments nos 11 , 13 and 32 .
i now come to the second proposal , on the regulation on the common organisation of the market in flax and hemp grown for fibre .
that is why i cannot agree to amendments nos 18 and 34 , even though they definitely contain further food for thought .
i do agree , however , with the ideas underlying amendments nos 23 , 25 and 26 , that is to bring the aid payable for long and short fibres more closely into line and to make the granting of aid dependent on the result of checks .
i can accept amendments nos 24 and 33 for those instances when the farmer and the primary processor are one and the same person .
however , i cannot agree to amendments nos 22 and 31 in their current form because they implicitly say that no further controls need to be carried out .
turning , in conclusion , to the timetable , i am also prepared to accept amendments nos 17 and 36 , in accordance with which the new rules would only enter into force on 1 july 2001 .
commissioner , you mentioned the controls which will need to be carried out in connection with the processing premium , and these must indeed take place .
that is why i should like to ask you this specific question , commissioner : can you envisage - and i am referring here to amendments nos 27 and 28 and to my previous comments - that the commission might , after all , consider rethinking its proposal on quotas and restructuring it ?
in this regard , i have said that we are prepared to accept a quota of this kind .
thank you very much , commissioner fischler .
the debate is closed .
this week we are able , for the first time , to adopt a european union legislative act which has been drawn up on the initiative of the european parliament and on which , thank god , the commission and the council have cooperated positively .
it is about improved protection for accident victims in the european union .
obviously , we cannot in any way change either the law which has to be applied or the legal jurisdiction , but by now proposing a system whereby each insurer has a claims representative in every other country , we will probably be able , as far as the accident victim is concerned , satisfactorily to settle the claims arising from 90 % of all traffic accidents which take place in another country .
nevertheless , although i will vote for the motion , i have to say that i am very perplexed by the response i have received from the commission to my question on an issue which is not completely related to the question of accidents which take place abroad but which nevertheless concerns the insurance sector , a sector in which , as far as i am concerned , in italy , truly unimaginable events occur , which leads me to suspect that parliament ' s inspection system is , indeed , defunct .
although it is true that in certain areas a decidedly larger number of accidents is recorded , it is also true that , when people belong to the same state and the same community , events are shared by citizens who live in the same district , the same area , the same country and the same community .
with regard to the payment of premiums , absolutely incredible , unbelievable things happen : in a town such as alexandria , for example , premiums are less than half the level of those in a town such as naples or catania .
in this regard , i would like to repeat the question i tabled , to which the commission replied that the european parliament has no competence in this sector .
the commission has perhaps been constructive in the formulation of this fourth motor insurance directive .
the new directive will provide for improved information , easier procedures and quicker settlement of claims , and these are things which concern the citizens of all our member states most directly .
as i have just said , the commission 's proposal was a response to a parliamentary resolution in which parliament made use of its new powers under article 192 of the treaty on european union .
lastly , mr bigliardo draws attention to the fact that the premia for motor vehicle insurance in italy vary from region to region , according to the number of accidents .
you cannot ask french or german citizens living in italy to pay a different premium from italian citizens .
thank you very much , commissioner bolkestein .
the debate is closed .
it was important because south africa is one of the countries which receives the most funding from the european union for its development process .
it was urgent because the regulation which forms the basis of this cooperation and which has been in force for five years expired on 31 december 1999 , from which date the different procedures in operation were left without a proper legal basis .
in fact , in the first six months of 1999 , our parliament considered the first text proposed by the commission , adopting six amendments and forwarding them to the council for their consideration .
the council wanted the committee of experts to control all cooperation projects relating to south africa with a budget of over eur 3 million .
having considered all the main issues , the amendment we are presenting today finally raises the council ' s proposal from 3 to 5 million , and this committee , whose members represent the various member states , will therefore have fewer projects to deal with and will therefore be able to concentrate more on a global view of such an important field of action .
the second proposal concerns the budgetary framework for development cooperation between the european union and south africa for the 7-year period , including 2000 , which is referred to in the regulation under discussion .
during the previous five years the budgetary framework had been eur 125 million per year .
finally , the proposal approved by the committee on development and cooperation , on whose behalf i am speaking , was extremely reasonable : the eur 123.5 million already allocated for 2000 and the eur 127 million for each of the subsequent six years , amounting to a budgetary framework of eur 885.5 million for the seven years laid down in the regulation .
the aim is to avoid a third reading , put an end to the current intolerable legal vacuum and provide significant political impetus to our development cooperation with south africa .
we also hope that these proposals are acceptable to the commission , despite the fact that theirs - 25 million for the commitology question and 850.5 million for the budgetary framework - are somewhat different to the ones that we are presenting .
if we are not understood , it will be entirely down to the council or the commission that we become involved in a third reading , with the consequences which the lack of a proper legal basis may have on the projects in operation in our development cooperation with south africa .
the figure for the budgetary framework suggested by the commission , which is very close to our own proposal , should in any event have arrived at the committee on development and cooperation on time , so that parliament could have approved it and above all with the certainty that , in the event that we had adopted it , the council would also have accepted it .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the report under discussion here on the union 's development cooperation with south africa , on which i particularly congratulate the rapporteur , is , leaving aside its content , a striking example of the council 's delaying tactics towards the european parliament .
our former fellow-mep , mr fassa , presented the report for its first reading in parliament in may of last year .
the council accepted nearly all of the amendments .
secondly , the threshold of eur 5 million , which has now been settled on , constitutes a good compromise in my view .
the limit of eur 5 million gives sufficient room for manoeuvre .
in making these efforts , the rapporteur has , for his part , done everything within his power to present a proper report on the regulation .
the union continues to attach great importance to stable development in south africa , not only for the sake of the people there , but also because this is in the interests of the development of its neighbours north of the limpopo .
by adopting this regulation , the union is showing that it still backs the economic , political and societal reform process in south africa .
mr president , i also warmly congratulate the rapporteur who has shown enormous commitment to this report .
the regulation for south africa expired on 31 december 1999 .
it is clear , as the rapporteur has suggested , that we need to proceed with some urgency in order to provide a legal base for our essential work in south africa .
this budget line is the work of the european parliament .
i was the budget rapporteur in 1994 when the development committee established the line .
indeed , it is my view that the council has rather cynically orchestrated the eight-month delay in response to the first reading in order that it could better manage its negotiations on the south africa trade and development agreements .
this has put life-saving programmes at risk and any delay now would exacerbate the existing impression in south africa of a european union which seeks only to serve its own interests first .
we risk jeopardising economic developments in the eastern cape and work in the eastern cape with the ministry of education .
we risk jeopardising support for social housing programmes in south africa .
in this parliament we have to make every effort now , as the rapporteur has said , to make it possible for this money to move as speedily and as efficiently as it can to the people of south africa .
the european parliament position is , and always has been , realistic and morally right .
as usual we should make it very clear that we in the development committee regard the budget figure that we have here before us , as purely indicative .
a maximum of 5 million seems very reasonable to me .
the apartheid regime has been abolished , all that is left to tackle now is apartheid itself .
i strongly support his aim of getting this regulation brought into force as quickly as possible with no third reading .
the rapporteur has been very generous in his interpretation of the council 's inexplicable 8-month delay in responding to parliament 's six amendments during the first reading .
to come to the substance of the issue , on the budget it is completely unacceptable that the eu should be offering a budget cut in comparison to former years , particularly at this moment in our relationship with south africa .
perhaps there is an image abroad that south africa is an increasingly developed country and does not really need these funds .
let us not forget either that the commission and council turned down the idea of a separate new financial instrument to give support to neighbouring countries which need to adjust themselves to the new framework resulting from the trade and cooperation agreement .
i am not as reassured on this point as the rapporteur and i would have preferred to see a separate budget line which could have been seen and monitored more easily .
for example , in its agreement to a highly asymmetrical liberalisation agreement with the other sadc countries which will benefit those countries .
mr president , it has taken a year , but we have finally reached the point where we can discuss the regulation on development cooperation with south africa at second reading .
i can imagine that he is intent on keeping the eur 910 million budget for development cooperation with south africa .
this is why south africa ' s neighbouring countries can also benefit from european development projects .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur not only for the work he has put in to produce this report but also for the rather unique way he has had to handle the situation that the development committee and parliament found itself in .
we are doing much for south africa and i hope , in return , president mbeki will work for peace in the region , with particular reference to zimbabwe .
the implication in the rapporteur 's report that this regulation may have been delayed because it was being used as a bargaining chip is very worrying .
in the last session in strasbourg we had another regulation that had also run out last december and this should not happen .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , in recent years south africa has made a historic leap forward by abolishing the apartheid system and establishing a new political order based on the rule of law , respect for human rights and democracy .
if the people of south africa have regained their freedom , this is , of course , for the most part thanks to their persistence and courage , as well as to that of their leaders , but also , it must be said , to the political and financial support provided by european union member states for the reform process in south africa .
quite clearly , the cooperation agreement signed on 10 october 1994 was a strong message that we sent this people treated so badly by history .
with regard to the regional cooperation aspect of this regulation , i should like , in turn , to draw the council and the commission ' s attention to the risks of economic destabilisation which may be engendered by the regulation , and even more so by the trade agreement with south africa .
i feel that the european union must , as a matter of urgency , take steps to arrive at an agreement with the authorities of these countries in order to compensate for any losses .
finally , in conclusion , acknowledging our rapporteur for his clear-sightedness and for his talents as a negotiator , i should like to express my complete agreement with him on the need to remedy the existing legal vacuum to enable these agreements to come into force .
in 1995 , it became our key partner in development cooperation .
in his eminent report , the rapporteur emphatically referred to the expiry date of 31 december 1999 .
the european parliament cannot possibly support cutting development aid to south africa by ten per cent .
it can show that it is freedom , together with democratic and strong ethical and moral values , through which africa can advance furthest . - ( pt ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , parliament is due to state its position at second reading on the regulation that forms the legal base for the general framework of cooperation between the european union and south africa .
following a few incredibly intricate episodes , successive adjournments and time-wasting manoeuvres by the south african negotiators in accepting a regulatory text for this agreement , both parties finally agreed that a new draft of the regulations for this agreement on wines , which is due to enter into force by 1 september , is to be laid down by the end of june .
in view of these issues , i cannot agree with the rapporteur when he asks parliament , as proof of good faith , to approve this framework regulation as a matter of urgency , without linking it to the trade aspect of the general agreement on trade , development and cooperation .
but in the south africa case , we are ready to accept the eur 5m threshold simply in order not to delay a decision .
the eur 5m level gives us enough room to proceed quickly with some small projects , for instance preparatory actions or pilot operations .
regarding amendment no 2 , article 10 ( 1 ) on the financial framework : the commission has been aware on the one hand of the need to respect the political commitment in the trade and development cooperation agreement to maintain assistance to south africa but , on the other hand , we have to take into account the very difficult budgetary situation caused by the new commitments made for assistance in the balkans .
but we envisage stabilisation for south africa at the average level of around eur 122m per annum , with a global figure of some eur 850.5m in the period 2000-2006 .
this situation is indeed very critical and not a normal , routine situation - but unfortunately it is what we are facing - and i feel an obligation to do my utmost to secure agreement between the council , parliament and the commission on the proposed approach .
i am therefore anxious both to discuss the matter again with the committee on development and cooperation in parliament and before that to seek a response from the member states .
this is the safest way to reduce the risk of a much more serious and longer delay threatening the credibility of our cooperation with south africa .
i must say that this situation disturbs me , because we are all working very quickly and the commission seems to be saying that , since we are in a hurry , we must drive the car very slowly .
firstly , i must thank the spokespeople of the different groups for their support , although i believe that they are lending their support to a very modest position by the committee , almost a critical type of support , because the committee on development and cooperation should have gone much further than it decided .
i repeat : in principle , i would not be opposed , but i do not believe that parliament is in favour of delaying the vote .
that would mean inviting the commissioner to the committee on development next week and postponing our decision until june .
the commissioner can speak for himself but the commission was not requesting postponement of the vote .
it is simply in order to minimise that risk that i am expressing my views as i have here .
decision on urgent procedure mr president , the committee on industry considers that this is an extremely important issue and should be dealt with as a matter of great urgency .
i therefore propose producing a simplified report so that we can vote on urgent procedure .
mr wynn , chairman of the committee on budgets , asked for an opinion , has the floor .
it has done so in the past and will do so in the future .
on this occasion there is no urgency for this to go through now .
thank you mr wynn .
mr president , we have not discussed it in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , but my personal view is that we should not accept urgency now .
mr president , in my opinion , this proposal has been submitted under rather strange procedural circumstances .
montenegro is in great danger , especially from belgrade , and i think we should send out this signal .
it cannot take it away from kosovo .
mr president , firstly , i am against the urgency for the reasons expounded by the chairman of the committee on budgets .
i therefore propose that we examine the next item on the agenda .
secondly , we must also exercise extreme restraint in the area of staff policy in the coming year .
and we must also solve the problem of promotion in the autumn in a way which is acceptable to all institutions .
my fifth point is that this increased responsibility must also find expression with regard to groups in the european parliament .
we need to be a bit more realistic in our approach to the important question of enlargement .
we moved into a new building in brussels three years ago , we moved into a new building here in strasbourg a year ago and if we tap the taxpayer on the shoulder again so soon after and say we need more buildings , more office space , he is only likely to agree to so much .
a budget with eur 987 million is not very much in comparison to the budget of over eur 90 billion which the commissioner will propose shortly , but this is the taxpayers ' money and we must take our decision as the trustees of that money .
we shall have to discuss this again in september during the first reading of this budget , once all the documents from the budget discharge procedure have been submitted .
i should like today to thank the bureau of the european parliament , especially the vice-president responsible for budgetary questions , gerhard schmid , for their constructive cooperation , especially during the conciliation procedure between the bureau and the committee on budgets .
mr president , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work that he is doing for our house in terms of getting value for money out of our budget .
it is not right that we should be expecting the commission to do a whole range of things in putting their house and their budget in order unless we also take the same kinds of rigorous steps .
the approach which has been taken is absolutely correct , not only in making sure that we do not simply give money away if we have a little spare in the budget , but also where we have asked the secretary-general of parliament to come forward with a number of reports : for example , in paragraph 6 of the resolution where we have asked the secretary-general to look at and identify job needs in the same way as the commission so that we can match job needs to the staff which we have available in the longer term .
that quite clearly is a way of long-term planning which is very sensible at this stage of parliament 's life .
there are three things which i would like to emphasise in particular in this parliament budget 2001 .
it is a matter of frustration for many of us that our staff can access the net with their computers , of course , parliament 's computers , but if we as parliamentarians bring in our own computers , we do not have a place to plug them in and work effectively .
it is important to have a date when this facility will be available to us .
we never saw it as a report on suggesting how the hub and spoke system should work - the relay system for interpretation - nor , indeed , did we really have any thinking about the freelancing possibilities with modern communications where we can dispatch a large amount of our translation material to people who are in the member states , rather than recruiting a whole range of people to come and work in luxembourg as fixed and permanent employees of parliament .
therefore , i strongly support the compromise which has been put forward by our rapporteur asking , by first reading , for the secretary-general to come up with a strategy of how to handle the whole question of languages in parliament and enlargement .
i suspect the commission might wish to do that as well , because it is a problem which rightly , in this amendment , relates to interinstitutional matters .
our main priority has to be to explain to european citizens what we are doing , why we are doing it and how we are doing it .
we must win the confidence of the european taxpayer and we can only do this by improving accountability through simplifying - not mystifying - the work of parliament , by reducing jargon , by improving the process of approving legislation and improving the legislative machinery and by making a clear connection between what we do here and how it benefits the individual .
we are going a long way towards achieving this transparency through the introduction of activity-based budgeting and the proposal we have in this report to put appropriations for political parties in separate budget lines will contribute significantly to achieving this .
we in the socialist group strongly believe that the european parliament should be giving every encouragement to candidate countries in their preparation to joint the eu .
i have the impression that there are those in this house who appear to be frustrating this process of enlargement by placing unnecessary obstacles in the way and often using spurious arguments to limit the preparation for enlargement : for example , the rejection of the proposal to fill the 35 vacant posts in the language reserve between 2001 and 2002 .
i strongly favour planning properly for enlargement because experience has shown that there is a long lead-in time for the training of interpreters and translators .
we need to plan and to be imaginative and to be creative as to how we prepare for enlargement because nothing will be more damaging to the eu if we make a bad job of enlargement .
the average time that it takes for a case to be heard has risen from 17 months in 1988 to 23 months last year .
what we need to do is to have reforms , not just in the areas of staffing and procedures , but we also need to have a new approach in terms of buildings policy .
i am a relatively new member of parliament and while i see a lot of good work going on in the committees , i am acutely aware that as a result of the new responsibilities in the treaty of amsterdam there is a need not just for individual support for members but also scientific support for committees .
the commission 's work programme now incorporates a very large number of codecision procedures and these procedures have significantly increased our workload .
if we are to convince the people of the eu of the importance of the european parliament 's work and persuade them to take it more seriously , we need to improve our systems of working .
i have been disappointed by some aspects of the report 's focus .
rather than reducing the budget we should be looking at how we improve security services , and the question we should be asking is : should we have our own security services or should we be retendering it rather than just reducing the budget ?
already , at this early stage , the intention is to spend this increase on the creation of 33 new posts and , apparently , 12 more will be created as a result of the amendment by the bureau .
for example , we have been asked to pass judgement on the fact that the directorate for committees and delegations must comprise five a posts , two b posts and one c post , and that one a post and two b posts must be added to the directorate-general for personnel .
moreover , generally speaking , the objective is to reduce the budget .
on behalf of the radicals in this house , i must inform you that i shall be voting against mr ferber ' s report .
we are in agreement and we are very happy .
i believe that the rapporteur , in drawing up this draft budget for 2001 , has been rigorous , has made optimum use of resources and has , at the same time , been imaginative and looked to the future .
these three challenges faced by the european parliament should be set in a context of great budgetary rigour and complete transparency in the use of public funds .
i believe - and i agree with him on this - that the rapporteur wants a parliament that treats the meps ' political work , both in strasbourg and in brussels , as well as in their individual political constituencies , as a priority .
six new countries - with at least five new languages - in 2004 means that we will have to make a great effort to adapt .
in order to fill these vacancies , we will need to know the exact order in which the candidate countries will join the union , and that is something that cannot happen now or in this budget .
we must ensure that we can achieve equality in arms with the other legislative authority , namely the council , both in respect of the scientific service and scientific research .
allow me to comment now on the question of enlargement , because that is the only point on which we disagree with mr ferber and , above all , with our colleagues in the ppe group .
as far as preparing for new languages is concerned , if you read the cot report , called for by the honourable member of your group , mr elles , you will see that we shall have an additional 460 language combinations in the future .
according to one estimate , this will mean another 500 translators and interpreters .
mr president , allow me to begin by thanking the rapporteur , mr ferber , for the good work he has done .
a good deal in the report under discussion is based on the assumption that the eu will be enlarged by six new member states in 2004 .
a few days ago , the commission said it was its own objective to be able to welcome ten new member states by the year 2005 .
my only criticism is that amendments nos 4 and 5 should have been tabled in someone else 's name for the ppe group .
parliament demands that the commission and the other institutions are prudent with taxpayers ' money , and we think the same should apply to the european parliament .
i also have a loyalty to my political group which has given me this speaking time .
one only has to look at paragraphs 15 to 18 to see how serious we are about the buildings policy .
the policy of ramassage has been a great success for this parliament .
what we have done with the belliard building may not be ideal but at least it is a step in the right direction , and it is now off our backs .
it seems that we expect everything and , at the same time , we expect nothing at all from the european union ' s priorities , as we can see from the level of budgetary transposition - or lack thereof .
mr president , as other colleagues have said , dealing with amsterdam and preparing for enlargement are major challenges for this institution .
the decision will be taken for us .
as members will notice , the finnish interpreters do a good job speaking english and other languages because we could not recruit finnish-speaking english interpreters .
so i want parliament to rethink the 35 language posts .
the second area where we still have much to do as an institution is informatics .
the new amsterdam situation means that when we pass amendments and resolutions in this chamber we have to be more aware of the legal consequences as well as the political consequences of what we are deciding .
however , to spend one or two per cent more in order to ensure that we remain effective is worth it , and we should look at prudence in the context of the wider demands of this parliament .
above all , however , what is important is that you have paid a great deal of attention in your report to the question of enlargement and staff policy in the translating and interpreting sector and , of course , the question of what measures are taken here is a highly political one .
in this respect , congratulations once again on your report , especially on the fact that the report on the budget 2001 looks beyond the budget 2001 .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
presentation by commission of preliminary draft budget for 2001 the next item is the presentation by the commission of the preliminary draft budget for 2001 .
commission . ( de ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in february , the commission debated the priorities for the european budget for next year and had the opportunity to discuss these priorities in detail with the european parliament both here in plenary and , more importantly , in the committee on budgets and in the various trialogues between the commission , the european parliament and the council which have taken place since .
now to the budget proper : as with every national budget , most of the figures in the european budget for a given year are determined by contracts , by previous decisions in past years and by legal bases in past years .
this is particularly true of agricultural expenditure in the area of the organisation of the markets , the largest item in the budget , including in the budget 2001 , and of the structural funds and multiannual programmes , be they in research , youth measures or foreign policy .
despite the fact that figures are determined by previous years , the budget 2001 also sets clear political priorities and , following discussions over recent months , i think i can say that the priorities in the commission ' s preliminary draft budget tally to a large extent with parliament ' s priorities .
take , for example , the priority under the second pillar of agricultural policy ; the highest rate of increase in the commission ' s preliminary draft budget is for promoting the development of rural areas and i think that this in fact highlights that the commission considers that we need to focus on the second pillar of agricultural policy .
we have already had the opportunity to debate this in great detail , especially assistance in the balkans .
i think that this figure clearly illustrates that the preliminary draft budget is in keeping with the overall policy of budgetary rigour , and that the rate of increase in payments as a whole , without agricultural expenditure , is 3 % .
i stress this because it will certainly play an important part during the debate with the council .
however , we have included a considerable increase in agricultural expenditure in the preliminary draft budget , namely 7.6 % or , in absolute terms , a total of eur 3.12 billion .
this is mainly as a result of the resolutions passed by the heads of state and government at the berlin summit last year and these agreed financial perspectives form part of the interinstitutional agreement concluded last year between the parliament , the council and the commission .
i should point out that this figure for agricultural policy actually makes provision for the draft budget for agricultural policy to remain under the ceiling decided in berlin because the commission proposal includes shifting eur 300 million from the agricultural budget to foreign policy , yet still there is such a high rate of growth for agricultural policy .
i highlight this - we also have extremely intensive debates in the member states on state quotas , which are between 40 and 50 % - in order to illustrate the fact that the european budget accounts for 1.07 % of the total gross national product .
this clearly illustrates that the budget of the european union is worth its weight in gold .
it does not , for example , include expenditure by member states for kfor troops .
i should point out that the proposal for serbia for the year 2001 makes provision for a fixed sum of 40 million .
the commission has proposed that , if the political situation changes in serbia , additional funds will be provided from the flexibility reserve .
you , yourself , said just now that the budget 2001 is only 1 % higher than the budget 2000 without agricultural expenditure and we all know that agricultural expenditure accounts for a huge part of our budget .
it is through category 3 , which encompasses all our priorities - not only category 3 , category 4 also of course - but it is mainly through internal policies that all citizens perceive the european union .
but what about social dialogue and employment - down 4.7 % .
to my mind , the preliminary draft budget , as it now stands , takes no account of parliament ' s priorities .
i have just this to say about category 4 : i think it is asking for trouble to support serbia with such a small amount in 2001 and , at the same time , to say that once serbia has democratised we can again use our flexibility instrument .
thank you , mrs haug .
i know we should not do so , but there is that link between the two which makes me want to comment on both .
the second factor will be parliament 's attitude to redeployment , especially in category iv , not just for 2001 but for the whole of the financial perspective .
the proposal to take eur 2 million per year away from south africa for six years may not seem much .
i would not be happy with that and i am sure other people in other areas of interest in category iv would adopt a similar attitude .
then we have parliament 's attitude towards redeployment in category i .
similarly , we have to consider our approach to the use of the flexibility instrument if it was invoked for serbia , as you suggest .
the third factor , and probably the most important one , is the attitude of the council .
mrs schreyer , you are something of a juggler and an illusionist at the same time , with the proposals that have been made .
you have to keep several balls in the air and , at the same time , because of what is proposed after 2003 , you have to make more appear .
in this specific instance , i move that this report be deemed inadmissible and that we move on to the report which is the next item on the agenda .
such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately . " according to the rules of procedure , one person may speak for and one person against the motion , after which it is put to the vote immediately without further debate .
mrs theato , are you speaking against mr dell 'alba ' s motion ?
secondly , i would be obliged if mr dell 'alba could tell me what he means by saying that i have blocked documents for weeks .
i have therefore taken recourse to rule 181 of the rules of procedure and proposed an amendment to the rules of procedure .
the text which i have proposed is in line with the original proposal of the committee on budgetary control .
i urge you to support this initiative to amend the rules of procedure .
this is why i fail to comprehend why a number of proposed amendments to my report claim that the court ' s judgement has strengthened the position of the european investment bank and the european central bank in their opposition to the regulation .
the european court of justice and the court of auditors have duly implemented the provisions of the olaf regulation in corresponding internal decisions .
three points on the content of my report .
point number 2 concerns the european financial public prosecutor who , in the initial stage , has the right to support the national courts in prosecuting criminal offences committed by officials or employees of the union .
the report also includes a number of points from the white paper on the reform of the commission in connection with olaf .
and yet i have just heard from some quarters that we should postpone a decision on these points and not take a stand on them just yet .
except that the commission wants to implement all the points addressed here before the summer recess .
in our community , there is hardly anything worse than fraud to undermine public confidence in the activities of the union , and so the views of the rapporteur deserve our full support .
it is important that the work being undertaken by the commission should be expanded because , in a situation in which 20 % of irregularity amounts to fraud , the fact of the matter is that by referring to it as fraud and irregularity , european citizens can often be left with an impression that all of the claims are fraudulent ones .
the second point that i want to make is about the commitment of member states to deal with fraud .
they are responsible for administering some 80 % of the eu 's budget and they must recognise that they are , at the very least , partners if not prime movers in attempting to address this important issue , and the report indicates that the performance of member states has been mixed to say the least .
my final point concerns the accession countries .
mr president , commissioner , when deciding here in parliament whether or not to grant discharge to the commission , we check that there is no irregularity in expenditure by the administration .
nevertheless , deeper causes for error rates clearly lie in the different handling systems in the member states .
i would remind you at this point that parliament called for an external chamber for budgetary discipline in its resolution of 19 january .
with an increase in staff , with a new structure and independence , all the conditions are now in place for olaf to concentrate on fighting fraud in an area where the objective and verifiable figures point to a more serious situation .
special report no 9 of the court of auditors on the protection of the european union ' s financial interests in the area of vat on intra-community trade points to an even more serious situation .
according to the court of auditors , the gap between actual receipts and their theoretical amount is eur 70 thousand million .
unlike the main areas of expenditure , which the commission monitors and on which it imposes a system of sanctions , there is nothing comparable in these two vital areas of the community ' s own resources .
despite the fact that there is widespread agreement on the need to overcome the problems of fighting fraud which result from restrictions imposed by national legislation , or to the lack of a legal basis in community legislation , the commission ' s proposals have not , until today , met with any response and the anti-fraud sub-committee in the area of indirect taxation has found it impossible , in the words of the commission " to achieve meaningful progress and cannot take the necessary decisions to improve the fight against fraud " .
what is more serious than this is the fact that the commission ' s reports on vat collection have been scandalously disregarded by the other institutions and have not been followed up to any degree by the member states .
compliance with article 280 of the treaty , specifically where it requires the effective and equivalent protection of the community ' s financial interests will be dead letter unless we overcome the situation of there being a loophole in the law in the area of traditional own resources and vat .
everyone has a right to a defence , including those who need to be investigated by olaf .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i wish to emphasise the point i raised to the effect that , out of the 19 recitals and the 30 paragraphs of the bosch report , there were only 11 recitals and 6 paragraphs to do with the subjects that mr bosch was supposed to be discussing .
important matters , i do not deny , but matters which have already been dealt with in the van hulten report and the theato report , or matters which will be dealt with when we come to discuss the white paper , the reform and olaf , with the judgement and the ruling of the court of first instance .
probably in your own country too , and these were not exactly models of democracy .
i think this report is a waste of a lot of paper .
mr president , mr bosch has prepared a good report on protection against fraud .
with reference to 1998 , i believe that we should recognise that , after having intensified the task of control , which should be initiated by parliament and which olaf carries out , the number of cases of fraud and irregularities has stabilised .
without relaxing our efforts to control expenditure - of which we have shown signs in the past - we can see that this stabilisation has been the result of an increase in control .
however , i think it is very important that , in this first stage - precisely because we are interested in control - we do not increase olaf ' s scope of activity so soon after it has begun its work .
it is essential that we allow olaf to continue to pursue its scope of activity little by little and that we expand its role at a later date .
as usual - and as has already been mentioned - the annual report shows that in 1998 too , an excessive proportion of the european resources was not spent according to the rules .
mr president , my last point concerns the european parliament itself .
as you know , the court recently decided in an initial ruling that olaf only has limited access to the european parliament .
ladies and gentlemen , this report is an excellent illustration of what should be done and what should not be done .
in fact , the proposal to create a european public prosecutor ' s department is unacceptable since this requires us to be effective immediately .
in the same spirit , we shall support amendment no 13 from the group of the party of european socialists , which will prevent us creating a budgetary discipline body just for show .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , a few days ago , the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung published a survey which showed that an overwhelming majority of my fellow countrymen were in favour of a more common approach to judicial matters .
other surveys in the past have always confirmed that this applies both to germans and to the citizens in most other member states of the union .
we are therefore responding to the expectations of the people in tabling proposals on how to strengthen effectively the protection of the european union against fraud .
allow me to congratulate you on this report .
i am delighted that both the commission and parliament have included this question in the intergovernmental conference .
the committee on budgetary control has gone one step further in this report .
mrs theato , you know perfectly well what i am talking about .
i contend , together with the group chairmen , who have , moreover , disclaimed you , that on the 13 april you informed the conference of presidents that on the whole you were in agreement with the spirit of annex iii on the exchange of information with the commission .
one group chairman even left the room on an occasion when the matter came up on the agenda one day .
we must address the lack of moral responsibility on the part of bureaucracies , which was condemned in such a masterly way by kafka .
the creation of an effective and transparent office to fight fraud is a task with which all members of this parliament agree , and i hope that all the institutions agree .
the socialist group , which is interested in combating fraud as well as protecting the rights of citizens , including officials , and the construction of a europe based on the principles of fair play , democracy , proximity to the citizens , transparency , efficiency and solidarity , has presented an amendment to paragraph 29 of this report , which lays down the principle that combating fraud should not take precedence over the basic rights of officials .
i would like to remind you that claims have been made that no action has been taken against this type of action and that olaf ' s monitoring committee , in relation to these appeals , is aware that certain aspects are not functioning properly within this body .
while accepting that , with the dynamic of european construction , the increase in the budget and the growth of the administration , there may be more fraud and errors , we must not fall into a kind of policing paranoia , or at least this parliament must not .
there are a number of paragraphs i have doubts about - 14 , 15 and 16 for example , regarding the legal basis and whether it is necessary to involve both national and european responsibility to resolve problems of fraud that affect national states more than they do the european union .
i have run out of time without saying what i wanted to say but i wanted to respond to some of the points already made .
even though there was a slight decline in fraud and irregularities between 1997 and 1998 , there is nonetheless still a need for more effective supervisory mechanisms .
if such a body were to be established , this would mean that disciplinary matters would be taken away from the commission .
at present , officials who have had actions brought against them by the disciplinary council have colleagues of theirs sitting in judgement over them .
both the echo and med cases are all too well-known examples of this state of affairs .
i cannot , however , vote in favour of setting up a european public prosecutor ' s office .
it is , for all that , only the most serious cases which will have penal consequences .
we need changes to staff regulations and to the disciplinary procedure , as also proposed in the report .
mr blak , allow me to apologise officially .
you are quite right , you had three minutes .
at the same time , however , both the court of auditors and the council of ministers grant this refusal to issue a declaration of assurance the status of a mere water-level report , while we here in parliament and the media see it as an indication of the poor state of the union ' s finances .
one thing that is certain to create a stir in terms of the eu is big stories about fraud .
let us not forget that 80 % of the fraud takes place within member states .
finally , i want to read out a list of shame - member states which have not yet ratified the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the eu : belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , italy , spain , portugal , greece , ireland and france .
they have had five years to do it .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the fight against fraud and protecting the financial interests of the community are among the top priorities of the new commission .
the fight against fraud includes activities such as preventing , uncovering and prosecuting customs and subsidy fraud or tax evasion , as well , of course , as uncovering and prosecuting irregularities within the institutions of the european union .
although uclaf only had 120 employees at the time , this annual report illustrates the considerable success of their work , in my view .
there were 5,318 cases of suspicion of irregularity or fraud investigated by uclaf in 1998 , in cooperation with the member states , and around 20 % of these cases were classed as fraud following the investigation .
the commission explained in its statements on parliament ' s demands in connection with the 1998 discharge procedure that it did not think that the right way forward was to call in a chamber of the court of auditors or the court of justice to issue orders in disciplinary proceedings against employees on the grounds of irregularities in connection with the budget , because the european treaties had granted each of these bodies its own specific remit .
it explained this in its white paper tabled on 1 march and will also make detailed proposals on reforming disciplinary law in the paper on the overall future disciplinary procedure to be published by the commission in october .
it was rightly pointed out in numerous debates and in the report that good cooperation and the involvement of the member states are essential if the fight against fraud to the detriment of the financial interests of the european community is to be efficient .
the commission welcomes the fact that some enlargement countries are already taking steps to set up and activate structures similar to those set up by the european anti-fraud office .
the member states have indicated that they will not amend the treaty in this area .
i should like to comment briefly on the complaints filed by the commission against the european central bank and the european investment bank .
the aim is to implement precisely what was introduced into the olaf regulation by the european parliament , namely that olaf is responsible for fighting fraud in all the institutions of the european community .
we shall have the opportunity of debating other reports on the subject of fighting fraud this year .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon . ( the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m .
however , i regret to have to inform you that the commission cannot agree to amendment no 2 .
mr graefe zu baringdorf , indeed , i checked the situation : it was only this morning that we received the request for split voting , which was therefore not within the time limits set by our own rules .
mrs schierhuber , let us be clear on this .
we must prevent this and parliament and the commission must join in the discussion to find a compromise . ( parliament decided to refer the first part of the report to committee ) - following the vote on legislative proposal no 2 and adoption of the commission proposal as amended madam president , exactly the same applies to this second decision as what you said for the first decision .
two proposed amendments in this second file are of fundamental importance to the committee on agriculture , namely amendments nos 28 and 29 .
madam president , my colleague mr fischler made a statement on this yesterday .
the objective of this directive is to ensure that the injured party has a right of action against the insurer of the person who caused the accident .
this directive which streamlines the issue of civil liability in respect of accidents involving motor vehicles is a logical extension to directives which have been put in place over the last 13 years to complete the european single market .
the directive will apply to accidents involving nationals of a member state of the union on union territory or in any third country operating the green card system .
the conciliation committee has also agreed to enable member states to retain and implement more favourable arrangements in respect of the victim than the provisions required so as to ensure compliance with this directive .
this legislation governing the issue of civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and accidents in europe will ensure that the rights of the 370 million consumers in europe will be enhanced in the case of accidents taking place within any of the territories of the european union . - i welcome my socialist colleague , willi rothley 's recommendation on protecting motorists abroad .
the proposal extends current eu directives on the handling of motor insurance claims to cover cases where a person visiting another member state is the victim of an accident caused by a resident of that country .
every insurance company will , therefore , need to appoint a representative in each member state .
under the compromise , the directive will apply to such accidents in a certain number of countries outside the european union .
thousands of british holidaymakers travel by car or hire cars every year in france , spain , portugal and many other countries in europe .
surely we owe all of our citizens the right to ensure that things are made as easy as possible for those involved in car accidents abroad and for their families .
madam president , the situation in south africa is difficult - and it is by no means an easy country to run .
that is why i regret that the council proposes only eur 787.5 million for south africa , which is effectively a 10 % cut on the amounts we agreed five years ago .
in terms of the european budget it is not something we would struggle to find .
i would urge that we be generous to south africa , that the council finds this eur 98 million , does not go to conciliation but accepts parliament 's amendments and gets on with implementing this new regulation with south africa .
thank you , mr martin .
the most scandalous aspect of what they are daring to call an agreement on " development cooperation with south africa " is that this cooperation is subject to the trade agreement with south africa and that the council is using it as a means of blackmail in order to foist its own terms on pretoria .
such cynicism borders on candour : the european union grants aid to south africa on condition that it is able thereby to make a commercial profit .
thank you , mrs cauquil .
i welcome our action to support farmers , but i feel that we need to change direction , in some cases completely and in others only in part .
the income of people working in farming has fallen by a total of nearly 10 % in real terms since 1996 .
a reduction in the monthly increments would further exacerbate the economic situation of farmers . - ( sv ) a transformation of agricultural policy is a prerequisite for enlargement of the european union .
we swedish social democrats ( pierre schori , anneli hulthen , jan andersson , maj britt theorin , goran farm and eva hedkvist-petersen ) therefore believe that the eu ' s agricultural subsidies should be considerably reduced and we welcome the commission ' s proposal for a progressive reduction in the monthly increases in the intervention price of cereal .
it is problematic , however , that there is not the courage to engage in a full and candid discussion of how our agricultural sector is , in the longer term , to cope under quite different conditions and with a quite different aid scheme than that which is in place at present .
schierhuber report ( a5-0124 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted against this measure on the european policy on flax and hemp .
this is because i feel that we should change the way we support and provide aid to agricultural products in the european union .
basically , we must start to change the way we provide aid to agriculture in europe .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i voted in favour of mrs schierhuber ' s report .
the 50 tonne per annum limitation would exclude many member states from cultivation in advance .
the aim must be to develop a flexible system which also takes account of regional sales potential , thereby allowing all member states to cultivate on an equal footing . . ( sv ) we swedish social democrats ( pierre schori , anneli hulthen , jan andersson , maj britt theorin , goran farm and ewa hedkvist petersen ) believe that the eu ' s agricultural aid ought to be considerably reduced and we are therefore also opposed to aid for hemp production .
bosch report ( a5-0116 / 2000 ) mr president , i have taken the floor for the last time to declare , once again , that it was with no reservations that i voted against the bosch report on the 1998 report on the fight against fraud .
the same report states that these eur 1 019 million which have disappeared as a result of fraud are only the tip of the iceberg .
it is absolutely essential that we change the way we spend our money .
madam president , you have just congratulated the rapporteur on his work .
even though there was a slight decline in fraud and irregularities between 1997 and 1998 , there is still a great need for more effective supervisory mechanisms .
parliament has already proposed , in the van hulten report , that an external court should be established under the aegis of the court of auditors , part of whose task would be to deal with disciplinary matters and which would help recover money which had been paid out wrongly .
if such a body were to be established , this would mean that disciplinary procedures would be taken away from the commission .
at present , officials who have had actions brought against them by the disciplinary council have colleagues of theirs sitting in judgement over them .
both the echo and med cases are all too well-known examples of this state of affairs .
it is , for all that , only the most serious cases which will have penal consequences .
mr president , our discussion today on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies , transmissible diseases which include bse or scrapie , is one of the many follow-up reports or one of the follow-up discussions to the final bse report and i think that it is also of great interest to the visitors in the gallery .
we have a report here before us which the commission promised together with its final report on the 1997 bse report at parliament ' s request .
we have drafted a report on it , although not as quickly as we would otherwise have done , due to the break last year .
in other words , we have been able to keep the bse team going well .
we must ensure that the european parliament can act in the codecision procedure as the real guarantor of consumer and health protection in the european union .
what we also need , and we have tried to achieve this in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy and in the committee on agriculture and rural development , is to strengthen the member states ' obligation to inform the commission and to give the commission information and data on incidents in their countries , on bse problems or on suspicious circumstances .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the committee on agriculture and rural development also welcomes in principle the commission proposal , which is in line with the promise made by the commission to parliament .
however , i will not conceal the fact , commissioner , that the problem of third countries in general will continue to remain an issue for us , as will the question of including pharmaceuticals and cosmetics .
consequently , these tests , which produce results within a relatively short period of time , will most certainly help us to take immediate and appropriate action .
safety must be a priority and we all understand that if we are to have equal precautions throughout the member states , we need a variety of measures in place which have not so far been instituted .
commissioner byrne is to be congratulated on moving that closer .
these proposals take us a good deal further down the line in the field of diagnostic testing , in a more sceptical attitude to animals which ought to have been under suspicion but in some member states were not , and in terms of the general prospect of fallen stock being tested for the possibility of bse .
i want to say something , however , coming from the member state which first suffered the full rigours of bse and which has also , as a result of that , been in the vanguard of cleaning up this problem .
we have now had for a considerable period of time in the united kingdom an over-30-month cull of all animals which have been taken out of the food chain .
from our position , given the measures we take , we do not see any reason at all why we would need to introduce , additionally , whole-herd slaughter of the kind done in some other countries .
i should be very glad to hear whether the commissioner feels he can accept that in some circumstances - particularly in view of the over-30-month cull in the united kingdom - for those countries which are admittedly very high risk but also with a very high level of precaution now in place a certain number of derogations are necessary and would be satisfactory to him .
the bse crisis is an example of such a phenomenon .
if the commission really wanted to protect public health from spongiform encephalopathies , it would have proposed rules to prevent such risks a long time ago , but it did not .
that is the direction in which things are heading with the classification of countries , which , rather than taking into account the most basic factor , which is the existence or non-existence of cases of encephalopathy in their raised cattle , takes account of other factors when allocating countries to a particular category .
the worst thing about this is that , theoretically , if a member state in which cases of encephalopathy have been reported can prove that it has established systems for monitoring production , it could be placed in the same category as a country in which no cases have ever been reported .
mr president , i welcome the opportunity of making a brief contribution to this debate and i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work .
parliament has certainly devoted considerable time on behalf of its citizens to addressing the important agenda of food safety , while at the same time ensuring that our farmers can operate within a production framework of traceability which is the only way to fully restore consumer confidence in the wide range of quality food products produced by european farmers .
i would urge commissioner byrne to prioritise introduction of that level of consistency which is the only way that we can convince our consumers that we have a common policy in relation to ensuring public health .
i welcome the availability of rapid diagnostic testing for improved detection of tses in cattle and believe , commissioner , that further consideration should be given to its use as a means of establishing the health status of animals in member states .
for my country , ireland , food exports and in particular beef are of paramount importance to our economy and the income of farmers .
may i say in conclusion that farmers have always responded in a positive way to the introduction of regulations governing public health and the health status of animals raised for food production .
their task as guarantors of food security and quality is , as everyone in this house knows , becoming increasingly difficult .
mr president , mrs roth-behrendt , mr boge , commissioner , we have before us a proposal for a regulation on the prevention of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies , which is to say degeneration of the brain in bovine animals , sheep , primates , antelope , cats and even humans , since there have been 53 cases of atypical creutzfeldt-jakob in great britain , all fatal .
so i think it would be useful for the more recent members , in the end , if i gave a sort of debriefing on the subject , quite apart from the problems with the legal basis under article 100 a or bse monitoring problems .
the starting point for this business was the 1984 milk quotas .
secondly , the precautionary principle means safeguarding nations .
the action taken in 1997 is now proving even more inadequate as scientists are today talking about a third transmission route .
the development of common guidelines should allow firmer , more balanced and , therefore , more effective responses .
for example , we consider that setting up mandatory disposal consortia according to the model already laid down by the legislation of some member states could be a practical response to the need to limit the economic impact of disposal operations on breeders and , at the same time , thanks to the increase in the degree of social control over the proper use of the service , to the need to consolidate consumer and environmental guarantees .
it is therefore essential that the withdrawal period relating to the transfer of animals from one farm to another be increased from two years to six years .
for example , the scientific steering committee has recently established that it is necessary to regard the vertebral column and dorsal root ganglion as specified risk material in the uk only for bovines over 30 months and in portugal only for those over 6 months .
that is why some of us seek an amendment no 56 to allow adjustments in this area on the advice of the scientific steering committee rather than requiring fresh legislation to implement them .
similarly , certain measures in combating tses have already proved effective .
i refer to the exclusion of animals over 30 months from the food chain , the slaughter and disposal of suspects and offspring of bse cases , a fully effective feed ban and the removal of a wide range of specified risk materials .
in these circumstances , the precautionary principle must be adopted to the full .
no public health policy should ignore these factors .
they are , however , discussed only on rare occasions and in little detail by the european institutions , including parliament .
you might therefore expect me to be enthusiastic about these new controls on bse , but i am not .
of course , i have no objections to other countries adopting measures which match ours .
in fact , it would be helpful if measures already in place in the uk were implemented throughout the eu and elsewhere .
thus it is not new laws we need - we need more compliance .
the british bse inquiry which was commissioned by the uk government at a cost of  20 million is due to report in november .
this regulation is not a major revolution , but it does attempt nonetheless to afford a higher level of protection , based , moreover , on the most stringent practices adopted in specific european union countries , such as in france .
i think it essential in this case to define suspect animals quite apart from the age criterion .
the age criterion ceases to be justified as soon as we are practically assured that this third transmission route does in fact exist .
we know that this is not the practice in great britain , and that this is a solution which is vigorously opposed by our fellow members from the united kingdom .
once again , in france , a number of measures have been implemented , which have been more or less understood , but i am convinced that it is essential to be extremely vigilant and to apply the precautionary principle .
allow me therefore to say a few words on some of the points raised .
nonetheless , i must ensure that this level of safety also applies to italy , germany and all the other countries in the european union .
for some time parliament , the commission and member states have sought the introduction of common eu-wide rules to deal with the problems of tses such as bse in cattle and scrapie in sheep .
the basis of this proposal is that the discovery of any tse or the first incidence of bse in a member state would be covered by common rules which would take effect automatically .
these rules will form a blueprint that can be followed in the event of any new scientific information being made available or if more radical action is required .
this view was made plain in council working groups and was reflected in the final draft presidency proposal , a draft that is supported by the vast majority of member states .
for the purpose of agreement and the speedy implementation of this regulation and hopefully to avoid a lengthy conciliation process , the use of common oie criteria would be appropriate .
however , this proposal may have negative consequences for countries trading in sheep and this is an important point as it currently stands .
i would reiterate in conclusion my support for the use of oie provisions to have an internationally recognised basis for classification , a basis supported by 150 countries in resolving world trade disputes and recognised by the wto .
the uk would be in class 4 , ireland would be in class 3 under either classification system , the ssc or the oie .
the oie meets next week in paris to consider amendments to their classification system and consequently i hope to bring further amendments to this regulation for second reading .
mr president , legislation which seeks to protect the public from a terrible brain disease such as new variant cjd should be drafted to complement measures already in place in member states , to recognise the stage of the epidemic that we are at and have due regard to the body of scientific knowledge we have built up .
the united kingdom already has comprehensive and effective measures in place to protect human health and eradicate bse in our herd .
incidentally - and mrs grossetete referred to this - there has been recent press speculation about a third possible infection route through grass contaminated by faecal material .
amendment no 26 seeks universally to impose the whole-herd slaughter policy which some member states with low levels of incidence have introduced in an attempt to reassure the public .
the majority of herds that have experienced bse in the uk have had only one or two isolated cases .
most herds in britain are not closed herds and therefore animals come in from all over the place .
whole-herd slaughter is not an effective way of reducing cases of bse .
i hope parliament , in amending this directive , will do so in the light of sound scientific advice , not as a knee-jerk reaction to tabloid newspaper scare stories .
it is my pleasure to give the floor to a member of parliament who received the title of great chief of rangatira , when he led our delegation to new zealand .
i think both of them not only take credit for themselves but indeed bring credit to this parliament for the way in which they have carried out that duty .
we have to try to find ways by which we can control the disease of bse and tse and at the same time create the consumer confidence that is needed because consumer confidence has been lost .
everybody has problems in the european union of one type or the other and no-one should try to make or take advantage of the other 's problem .
however , whatever we do , we should not overburden the producer because he has already been considerably overburdened .
once we get to the stage where we have a vaccine or some way of identifying or testing if an animal has bse , then there is an argument for testing the rest of the herd and if there is a trigger level whereby it goes beyond that , then the whole herd should be taken out .
but it would be wilful carnage to simply go in and slaughter good animals in the thought or the notion that bse may possibly be in the whole herd .
one other point : where i come from , in recent years there has been a continuing downward trend .
that is an important thing to recognise because in my area farmers feel very secure because of the very low instances we have of bse and because of the strict controls that we have monitored and made sure worked over recent years .
that is perhaps why our situation is much better than the rest of the united kingdom .
mr president , i would like to join in the congratulations to the rapporteur on her excellent report .
i wish to begin by thanking you for the excellent cooperation between your assistants and my services .
due to this thorough preparation i am in a position today to agree in full or in part to almost three-quarters of your proposed amendments .
furthermore , most of the amendments , which i am not in a position to accept , relate to two issues : the so-called " whereas " clauses - that is the recitals - and whether or not changes to certain provisions of the regulation should be by commitology or codecision .
i can think of no other individuals who have made such a positive contribution to tackling bse .
i might also add that this piece of legislation is an excellent example of the good work and cooperation which has taken place between our two institutions and could provide a precedent for the future .
with regard to the recitals , i also accept amendments nos 3 , 4 and 5 .
however , i cannot accept amendments nos 1 and 2 because it is inappropriate to introduce recitals in a piece of legislation which are not matched by substantive provisions in the text .
with regard to the articles themselves , firstly , the scope : i accept amendments nos 7 and 8 .
with regard to definitions : i can partly accept amendments no 9 to article 13 on the definition of tse suspected animals .
the commission will , however , be monitoring the situation closely both through the recently agreed measures on random testing for bse and in the forthcoming proposal on animal waste .
however , i accept amendment no 52 .
i also accept amendments nos 10 and 49 to article 3 , with a slight reformulation to create the possibility of delegating the evaluation , not the approval , of tests to an external body .
with regard to classification , bse status : i accept amendments nos 13 , 14 , 51 and 58 .
with regard to epidemiological surveillance : i accept amendment no 15 to article 7 , introducing the mandatory use of the rapid diagnostic tests in the annual monitoring programme .
on specified risk material : unfortunately i cannot accept amendments nos 16 , 17 , 18 , 40 and 41 to article 8 , bringing under codecision the approval and conditions for use of rapid diagnostic tests .
nor can i accept that tests should be capable of detecting infectivity in all products and at all stages of the disease .
i partly accept amendment no 19 to article 8 , requesting a review of the age limits for srm removal under a commitology procedure .
i cannot , however , accept the restraint of annual reviews and , in particular , the proposed deadline for the first review which is foreseen for 1 january next , which is too soon .
i also accept amendment no 20 to article 8 , which brings under codecision the principle of granting derogations from the provisions on srm removal in high-risk areas or for taking account of an effective feed ban .
i also welcome amendments nos 38 , 39 and 56 to annex iv .
i can partly accept amendments nos 21 and 57 on condition that the possibility of extending the feed ban is allowed , irrespective of risk status .
i also partly accept amendment no 54 to annex v , laying down the detailed rules on the extended feed ban .
i can partly accept amendment no 50 to annex v where it exempts gelatine from hides from the ban .
i also cannot accept amendment no 23 to article 9 , ensuring immediate application of the feed prohibitions , as this amendment does not fully make sense legally .
on disease eradication : i accept amendments nos 25 and 28 .
i also welcome amendment no 24 to article 11 , but propose to reformulate , providing for " regular " rather than " immediate " notification .
i can also partly accept amendment no 26 to article 13 and amendment no 43 to annex vii , introducing whole-herd slaughter for bse in cattle , sheep and goats and , secondly , excluding research animals from these provisions .
i can partly accept amendment no 44 on condition that the equivalent measures are approved on a case-by-case basis under commitology .
i do not accept amendment no 27 to article 13 , requiring a complete standstill on a holding with a confirmed tse case , as i consider the extremely strict conditions of our proposals are already sufficient , as they require measures to be taken under strict , official veterinary supervision , duly certified .
i also cannot accept amendment no 37 to annex ii , as the proposed definition is not used elsewhere in the text and is , in addition , inadequate for tse control purposes .
i should add that adns regions are too small and too difficult to control .
on the conditions for marketing animals : we welcome the intention of amendment no 53 to article 16 .
i also welcome the intention of amendment no 45 to annex viii , but would ask for flexibility to determine the exact duration of the scrapie-free period .
i cannot accept amendment no 55 to annex viii , reducing the protection measures against scrapie .
furthermore , i cannot accept amendment no 46 to annex viii , extending the ban on placing on the market offspring of tse cases , for lack of scientific support .
finally , on laboratory techniques , i accept amendments nos 47 and 48 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
mr president , as you say , this is a new procedure and i hope that it helps to establish in parliament the importance of the conciliation procedure in achieving legislation to which parliament has aspired .
the delegation also had a great responsibility in this negotiation because we had many difficult decisions to take .
we did not achieve everything that we wanted to achieve as a parliament , but i think we went a long way towards helping all those people who are now going to be included within the working time directive to see some progress so that they can eventually get to the goal that we were all trying to achieve .
if we take , for instance , the junior doctors , we discover that parliament originally wanted a six-year period in which to achieve the 48 hours .
that was never likely to be negotiated with the council , but we were able to make substantial progress from the council 's original proposal of 13 years .
only in extreme circumstances will governments be able to go through a procedure to justify an extension of that period of nine years .
we also were able to clarify the position regarding the classification of mobile workers .
in all honour to everybody concerned in the negotiation , the council and all members of the delegation , they have made real progress and i recommend the outcome of the conciliation process to the house and hope they support it .
thank you , mr provan .
for the sea-fishing sector , the european parliament managed to secure a maximum working week of 48 hours , over a twelve-month reference period .
the main thing is that those countries that want a transitional period in excess of nine years will need to follow a very demanding procedure in order to achieve this .
the idea that politicians in brussels or strasbourg should determine how many hours different people work across europe is , we believe , fundamentally daft .
however , because of the special issue of over-worked junior doctors in the uk , as conservative meps we voted last november to extend the directive to them .
i believe in the circumstances we could not have done any better , but those three played a major role in that .
i should briefly like to mention a point made by some of my colleagues from that delegation .
the fact that i could say that on this issue we were speaking as one and it was a cross-party alliance hopefully helped to reinforce the overall message and the will of parliament .
but it is , as you know , nine years , plus two years , plus one year .
the uk government will add that up to twelve years as against the 13 years which the uk government was asking for initially .
we still support a better deal for junior doctors ; we will still continue to pressure our own government to provide it , but a directive from the european parliament is clearly not the right way to secure it .
i would like to begin by echoing previous speakers and adding my words of thanks to the rapporteur and to our chairman and to you for the magnificent work you did in that conciliation .
the progress we achieved is in large part thanks to the formidable effort and attention to detail the rapporteur put in to this .
there are three main issues which i would like to concentrate on in the brief time available to me .
in the original working time directive we had agreed way back in 1993 that it would be possible to introduce annualisation of working time for categories of workers , but only where collective agreements allowed that to happen .
as far as offshore workers and mobile workers in the transport sector are concerned - there was an attempt in the common position to allow annualisation of working time for those workers without collective agreement .
there we have now built in to the directive the principle that a 48-hour average working week over a period of one year will be the rule .
looking at this part of the agreement without detailed knowledge of the negotiations that went into it , it must seem like a very strange animal .
a four-year transposition period - five years transition and then the possibility of extra time beyond that .
i think that in fact we will see all member states complying with that section of the directive relating to junior doctors within that nine-year time frame .
i am confident , speaking today , that will be the case .
the provisions relating to nine years for junior doctors only relate to the average working week .
those parts of the directive can , of course , be subject to derogation but only by collective agreement so those elements will apply to junior doctors .
i would like to talk specifically about junior doctors .
there are 270 000 junior doctors across the eu who will be affected by this . 50.1 % in my constituency work over 72 hours a week as do 10 000 in the uk as a whole .
you can see from those figures that it is extremely important that all member states actually meet those objectives and i mean the nine-year objective .
the present situation is not good for patients or doctors alike - they have our life in their hands .
as i have said before , our life is in their hands and it is important that we get this right .
i believe that they are wrong and that is why we have the extension for two years and also the extension after that for one year .
it is not twelve years - it is nine years and we must state that very , very clearly .
i have been deeply concerned at some of the arguments put forward by certain governments which have said that other aspects of health provision could be threatened if the reduction of working time for this group was brought in more quickly .
i cannot understand why it is less important for these workers to have reasonable working conditions and hours than any other group of health workers .
i want to know whether junior doctors in some countries are some sort of superhuman who can do without adequate rest and who will not harm their own health or that of their patients in the process .
i would like to congratulate in advance those member states that will meet their obligations under this directive for all sectors .
the idea was that seven million people should be brought within the scope of the directive .
if the decision is interpreted as it already has been by some people in this debate , namely as saying that the transposition and transitional periods for doctors should add up to nine years and that there should , above and beyond that , be the possibility of an additional three years ' extra time , then we arrive at a total period of twelve years .
i thought it was appropriate for at least someone in this parliament to use his voting right for the purpose of indicating this dissatisfaction .
the intention expressed by this chamber has , of course , been that , where junior doctors are concerned , the period for implementing the present directive should be nine years and that the three extra years should only apply in extreme and exceptional cases .
i want to conclude by saying that , on more than one occasion , the european parliament has shown itself to be a significant force where working time legislation in europe is concerned .
young and old have different needs and different abilities .
it is incumbent on us to send out a clear message that we would expect every government in the european union to comply fully with the nine years .
i shall just deal very briefly with two other points concerning the whole working time directive .
however , it is a notoriously difficult area to enforce because of outside conditions , such as bad weather , that will affect the way fishermen operate .
secondly , transport workers : when we already have tachograph legislation in place , why do we need to bring in a separate and new directive on transport workers , in particular lorry drivers and so on ?
i would like also to extend warm thanks to the commission , particularly for their declaration on working on sundays .
if you vote against this compromise - and i would understand if you did , because i myself find nine years for junior doctors far too long - you will then be against everything , in effect .
the working time directive will not be complete until these issues have been resolved .
i will be truly happy to see these sectors , which were excluded from the 1993 directive , provided with a recognised european regulation on working time , even if it does involve long and protracted timescales .
mr president , in previous debates here last november and in april of this year i supported the general principles behind the idea of directives on working time and i still do so .
i note the compromise concerning sea-fishermen - a maximum of 48 hours of weekly work in a reference period of 12 months and the possibility of derogation after consultation and by agreement .
this may be an improvement but i still have some questions to put to the commission .
the directive says that work at sea comprises sea fishing and other offshore work .
the most contentious part of the directive was bound to relate to doctors in training who would benefit from this piece of legislation .
one should recall that the council had originally proposed an exemption for a period of some 13 years before doctors in training would secure the benefits of the directive .
naturally , parliament put forward its own proposals to support the right of doctors in training to be covered by this directive after a period of 4 years .
according to the conclusions of the conciliation committee , junior doctors will secure benefits after a transitional period of five years and a four-year transposition period .
i fully support the right of junior doctors and doctors in training to secure the benefits of this directive , but the conciliation committee conclusions will have reluctantly to be accepted .
i would like in conclusion to refer to one small but very important matter , namely that under exceptional circumstances there may be a further extension of two years and indeed up to three years if governments argue that the reduction would cause real administrative difficulties .
seven million workers were affected and specific sectors , such as the mobile worker sector , have been subject to ruinous competition over recent years , especially in germany .
it is therefore also a social problem and it is not enough , mr crowley , to use tachographs or other technical aids .
i think , mrs smet , you have proven that we can also fight .
the results are acceptable .
directive 93 / 104 was already very restrictive as far as worker production is concerned .
what is more , a number of categories were excluded from its field of competence .
it will permit further exemptions to the already excessive legislation of 48 hours per week .
finally , it will take nine years , in the best possible case , for the working week of doctors in training to be reduced from 58 hours to 48 .
in fact , the proposed working time organisation institutes social deregulation at the very time when , in france , doctors in training are campaigning for decent working conditions and genuine safety for service-users .
proper organisation of working time would entail , we reiterate , a real reduction in working hours accompanied by moves to create a sufficient number of jobs .
we cannot support this report as it stands .
mr president , this proposal will bring an additional seven million workers in europe under the protection of the working time directive , allowing them to have reasonable working conditions and proper rest periods .
it has been obvious since 1993 that those excluded from the directive at that time would eventually come under its protection .
one has to ask , therefore , why over that seven-year period virtually nothing was done in ireland or in britain to bring the number of doctors forward that would be needed to implement it .
in ireland some junior doctors work over 100 hours per week , the average being 70 to 80 .
i would appeal to all national governments , including ireland , not to utilise the additional provisions for extending the implementation of this directive beyond the nine-year period and would remind them that it is intended only as an exceptional measure if all other genuine steps have been taken to implement the measures here .
mr president , the proposed working time directive for specific categories of worker such as doctors in training , offshore workers or mobile workers , is typical of the slow and derisory nature of social europe .
the recitals of the proposal , nonetheless , stress the specific importance of this file , the first major file on social issues , adding , even , that it is a matter of the health and safety of 7 million workers .
in france , for example , a number of strikes by junior doctors recently drew the attention of public opinion to the intolerable length of the working day for this category of worker , harmful to the doctors in training themselves , but also to the quality of the care they are providing their patients with .
what we should have had was a quick decision and an appropriate reduction in working hours .
for the first three years , 58-hour working weeks are permitted .
we shall not vote against this text , but we shall conclude from this experience that workers can have no expectations of social europe and that , decidedly , nothing can replace the collective strength of the workers when it comes to amending legislation in favour of the workers .
mr president , the chairman of the european parliament ' s committee on employment and social affairs could not remain silent in this debate .
i feel that the most interesting point - and this is my third comment - is the number of workers affected by this directive , who are at present excluded from the working time directive and who will enjoy these rights once this directive is applied .
the upshot is that the provisions of the working directive will apply to doctors in training , workers at sea , rail workers and all non-mobile workers in excluded sectors .
i would also like to give special thanks to the portuguese presidency and the member states , particularly those which , for reasons we cannot go into right now , have experienced major problems with their national health services , such as great britain , spain and ireland .
secondly , as for road transport , the commission tabled a proposal in 1996 , but it was blocked by the council in 1998 .
the commission intends , with the cooperation of the french presidency , to re-table the issue .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
people occasionally get a little bored when one talks about internal procedures but what they should recognise is what we are discussing in these particular proposals : ways in which , first of all , we can get assistance to people more rapidly and effectively and , secondly , ways in which we can change the image of the european union around the world .
it is worth noting that our assistance programmes in the mediterranean have increased four and a half times since 1990 .
then there is the balkans crisis where the attempts to put in place a common foreign and security policy are being particularly tested .
while our external assistance programmes themselves have grown very rapidly , staff resources have failed to keep pace .
the commission has 2.9 staff for every eur 10 million that we manage .
that compares with an average figure about twice that for member states - the figure is 5.7 but it goes as high as 9 for some member states and 4.2 for the world bank .
it is worth noting that we have spent about eur 170 million a year on the 80 technical assistance offices which is equivalent to the cost of 800 staff working for the commission .
a consequence of all this is that the scr today has over eur 21 billion in outstanding commitments awaiting payments .
we have brought forward in the document , which has now been made public , our proposals for dealing with this problem .
what we have to do - whatever the long term objective may be is - to find better ways of managing our external assistance straightaway .
what we propose to do is to create a new implementation body replacing the scr which we think should be called europe aid .
the budgetary authority will ultimately have to judge the right scale of european union external aid programmes .
however , my only aim is to put the commission in a position where it can run these programmes competently .
i have to say very bluntly to parliament that there are two possibilities : either the budgetary authority agrees with our ideas and will then try to implement them from 2001 , or else , in order to manage what our programmes amount to more competently , we will be obliged to propose very large cuts .
we cannot go on in a situation in which we are not prepared to provide the resources to manage effectively the money that is voted by the budgetary authority for our external assistance programmes .
i am sure that parliament will have a considerable contribution to make to the discussion over the next few months .
however , my impression after a few months in this job is that parliament wants as badly as the commission to deliver a more competently run assistance programme all around the world .
mr president , this is refreshing - the fact that the european union is acknowledging that there are problems but that we have solutions .
the solution we have reached is to create a board of directors which will oversee and politically be the managerial part of running the new office or europeaid or whatever scr is going to be called .
my role on that board will be that of the chief executive officer .
we are in a sense structuring the political roles that have been defined and we are doing it in such a way that i think it really does have a chance of functioning .
the other one is the quality-support group which will have its secretariat in dg development .
this will also concentrate a lot of attention among all relex commissioners on the problem of whether or not we actually are delivering .
the reality , because of the way we are organised in the commission , is that ownership on our side is extremely vague and problematic .
this is going to change as a consequence of the reform we are putting forward now .
finally , i will address the issue of the risk of what happens if we do not get the staff and the resources to do the job .
we have commitments , we have an agreement with 71 acp states , we have the member states backing that and accepting the next ninth european development fund .
mr president , i am very happy to hear that , in order to fulfil commitments , more resources and personnel are required .
as parliament is aware of this , we will offer our full support .
within this ' continuum ' i would like to know whether , as has been the case until now , echo will be an office dependent on the commission , but whose action will be based on development policies aimed at what we want to see , and that is the eradication of poverty .
the only issue is to create a better link or bridge between the phase of humanitarian assistance and the more forward-oriented , long-term development assistance .
we have to say it a tous azimuts .
we will be making a positive effort to get a solution that makes it possible to continue at least at the level of activity that we have now .
i warn against giving the impression our development cooperation activities have all but stopped .
mr deva , we will , as part of the new suva agreement - the successor to the lome convention - be including in our activities a eur 2.2 billion private investment facility which will be administered by the european investment bank at arm 's length .
micro-credit is a big thing but it is not the only answer to all problems .
thank you very much , mr nielson , for your optimistic view of the future .
question time ( commission ) the next item is question time ( b5-0220 / 2000 ) .
xu wenli , one of the founders of the cdp , was sentenced to 13 years in jail in december 1998 , along with two other prominent democracy campaigners .
as the honourable member will know , the longstanding policy of the union is to raise the individual cases of chinese citizens who have been in prison for political offences with the chinese authorities , particularly in the context of the human rights dialogue , the last meeting of which took place on 25 february this year .
bearing in mind , commissioner , what you said about your willingness to raise individual cases , could i also ask you to make enquiries about the fate of rebiya kadeer .
she was arrested on 11 august 1999 in urumqui , the capital of the xuar , while on her way to meet representatives of the us congressional research service .
i will gladly provide more detailed information on that , mr commissioner .
as the author is not present , question no 33 lapses .
question no 34 by ( h-0357 / 00 ) : subject : the commission 's reform programme and enlargement on 1 march 2000 , the commission adopted the white paper on the reform of the commission .
delay in designing a practical strategy and in pursuing necessary modernisation would not have been acceptable to the commission , to the council , to this parliament or to the public , as i am sure the honourable member understands .
as the college of commissioners made clear in our introduction to the white paper , and elsewhere in that document , and i quote what we said : " the challenges of globalisation and future enlargement require better governance at all levels including the european union . "
all political institutions must rise to this challenge and so must the commission .
the current administrative reform is not a limited exercise - it is an evolutionary process as we have made very clear - it will be continuously monitored and the results achieved will be assessed in order to provide for any relevant adjustments .
what i know on the basis of precedent , and also the commission 's assessment of the scope and the depth of the challenges that arise from the forthcoming enlargement , is that appropriate measures will be taken at the right time not only in terms of the recruitment and integration of properly skilled staff from the new member states but also to assist with the preparation of other areas of expertise - presumably including the scientific and other committees .
in addition to relying upon those casual professional relationships , i am sure that the commission will want to ensure that there is continuity and access provided for those new incoming member states not only in areas like those that he has mentioned - veterinary and plant health - but in many other areas where the smoothest possible integration of efforts is a matter of crucial and mutual importance .
question no 35 by ( h-0411 / 00 ) : subject : boarding of community vessels by canadian inspectors in international waters five years after the seizure of the estai , the community fleet fishing in nafo international waters has expressed deep concern at the boarding of a portuguese vessel , the santa mafalda , supposedly by canadian inspectors .
the santa mafalda , a vessel used to catch halibut , was boarded on 24 april last .
nafo inspectors are obliged to carry out their duties in accordance with rules set out in the nafo scheme and they are also obliged to remain under the operational control of the authorities of their contracting parties and be responsible to them .
against that background , on 23 april two canadian nafo inspectors accompanied by a trainee carried out an inspection of the community fishing vessel santa mafalda which was operating at that time in the nafo regulatory area .
the santa mafalda arrived in aveiro on 10 may 2000 and two commission inspectors participated in a thorough inspection of the vessel .
the commission has drawn the attention of the canadian authorities to the procedures followed by the canadian inspectors in relation to their seizure of documentation and their continued stay on board the santa mafalda .
the commission takes the view that the canadian nafo inspectors in question acted in breach of the nafo scheme by taking away documents from the vessel without the permission of the master and by continuing to stay on board the vessel .
the commissioner knows , as i do , that the current situation in the nafo is not , fortunately , what it was five years ago after the seizure of the estai .
however , there are still outstanding questions , such as the extraterritorial clauses , which allow the canadian government to carry out inspections , controls and seizures beyond their national waters , in open sea , which is incompatible with international provisions and which , all too frequently , involves the arbitrary application of controls within the framework of the nafo .
it would not be proper publicly to pursue the matter further , but when the report of that inspection and the assessment by the portuguese authorities are available , i am certain that they will be communicated to interested members including , of course , the chairman of parliament 's committee on fisheries and i am certain the honourable lady whose interest is manifest .
question no 36 by ( h-0415 / 00 ) : subject : need to support and strengthen the olive oil sector the implementation of the new olive oil regulation is having severe consequences for greek producers who are poor farmers in infertile and island regions .
second part questions to mr solbes one of the greatest benefits of the question time arrangement is the way in which it endows me with instant expertise on issues as far apart as fishing , olive oil and human rights in china !
in june 1998 , the commission undertook to present a proposal on the future of the common organisation of the market in olive oil to the council and parliament in 2000 .
the new regime would apply from the 2001 / 2002 marketing year which , as the honourable member will know , begins on 1 november 2001 .
the commission is currently studying new data on the structure of olive oil production in the various producer member states , as well as developments in the world market where the community is the leading producer by a considerable margin .
the study will also take into account the need to draw up an olive oil quality strategy in order to add more value to the product .
as far as product promotion is concerned , the community is already financing promotion campaigns through the international olive oil council .
in response to a specific issue raised by the honourable member 's question , i have to point out that the produce of new plantings would not give entitlement to aid .
finally , the commission wishes to point out that rather than simply abolishing the intervention system , what has actually happened is that it has been replaced by a system of private storage which is more flexible than the intervention system because it applies throughout the marketing year if the market situation calls for such support .
all i can say to him at this juncture , because i know this is a matter of continuing concern and activity by him , is that the cmo for olive oil is due to be reformed , as i indicated earlier , by 1 november 2001 , following agreement in the council and in this parliament in adopting regulation 1638 / 98 .
i cannot assume that if the situation were precisely as the honourable member describes , and smaller producers were in a dangerously disadvantaged position by comparison with the big producers , there would have been such agreement in the council and in this house .
that is how we sustain our considerable lead in world markets .
thank you very much , mr kinnock , for your cooperation during this question time .
question no 37 by ( h-0409 / 00 ) : subject : further integration entailed by emu in the commission 's estimation , to what extent do the requirements imposed by emu on economic policy - which include permanently fixed exchange rates - create the need for further economic integration in the form of a more extensive common budget ( a common fiscal policy ) , cyclical transfers between member states , increased labour mobility between the participating states and / or a more flexible labour market ?
at the same time , as the common monetary policy will mean the same interest rate for all member states of the monetary union , it will not only have an effect in terms of developing demand , but it will also mean greater integration of the financial markets .
for this to have the greatest positive effect , it is essential that we carry out a policy of rationalised public finances , which will not generate tensions in monetary policy itself , and at the same time , a decisive policy of structural reforms and a competition policy , which will allow the maximum benefit to be drawn from the process .
the basic framework which we have introduced is a framework of mutual supervision of national fiscal policies and of coordination of economic policies by means of processes to improve our structural situations and the coordination or creation of a positive macroeconomic environment which will favour growth and employment , and at the same time reduce the possibility of asymmetric clashes caused by economic policies .
budgetary consolidation itself , which is , of course , the reduction of the public deficit , gives each member state room to act in adverse situations .
greater labour mobility may certainly help to confront the problems which may arise in the event of asymmetric clashes .
both an increase in the available work force and an improvement in productivity would improve the situation in terms of creating jobs and helping to reduce unemployment .
the commission has therefore insisted on its various strategies regarding the specific point of labour mobility , while remaining aware that this is a difficult issue .
it is difficult within member states and it is difficult between one member state and another , due not only to historical and cultural incompatibilities in terms of education , but also to a series of other aspects related to this type of situation .
we believe that it is a much better idea to establish a general framework of economic health , of good economic behaviour , which will allow us to confront the difficulties in the case in question .
this is an agreement adopted by the council of ministers as a result of initiatives by certain member states and which i also support , since i believe that a good budgetary policy provides greater room for manoeuvre in the event of difficulties .
in this year ' s recommendations we have taken particular account of the commission ' s own analyses regarding what the margins are , and which benchmarks we are setting in each of the member states to tackle the crisis without exceeding the 3 % public deficit , which is the figure we have established as a reference .
we can see that that situation is different in each of the countries and , therefore , our recommendations and our comments will always be different in each of the countries , although this is not the only aspect that we take into consideration .
the euro has been a great success , in terms of its introduction , in terms of issuing it as a currency , in terms of the consolidation of an excellent economic situation in europe and in terms of the forecasts for the future .
we also believe that the development of growth in europe will be strong throughout 2000 and , as a result , we will match us growth by the end of this year .
in these circumstances , we believe that the value of the euro will be rising in the coming months .
therefore , despite a certain degree of concern - because that concern exists within public opinion - about the evolution of the euro , we believe that this situation will be corrected and that it should be considered to be temporary rather than permanent .
firstly , with regard to increasing cooperation in terms of coordinating economic policies , i believe that it is necessary and positive and is one of the elements which is emerging from this current crisis .
transfers of capital may generate additional activity in the united states , but the positive increase in exports is generating activity in europe .
in any event , what i do believe - as i said earlier - is that the euro , at the moment , has an exchange rate which , if we analyse it in relation to its components and its historical situation , is not that different from situations which have existed at other times .
i am convinced that this is a transitional situation which will improve during this year .
question no 38 by ( h-0419 / 00 ) : subject : precarious employment and the industrial-accident rate in spain and in the murcia region at the lisbon summit , a commitment was made to achieving full employment in proper jobs throughout the eu .
in response to the french government ' s proposal involving a reduction in working hours in order to create more proper , stable jobs , the approach agreed between the spanish and uk governments , which calls for further deregulation of employment conditions in order to increase the number of jobs , has been adopted .
questions to mr verheugen mr president , despite the fact that i was born next to the murcia region , it is difficult for me to analyse , in community terms , the problems of the precarious employment there .
the assessment of the labour market reforms which have resulted from the processes we have established in the union - the luxembourg process and the broad guidelines for economic policy - demonstrates that the reforms of the regulations on the labour market in the different countries are making a positive and significant contribution to greater economic growth and to promoting the creation of employment and the greater participation of men and women in the labour market .
the broad guidelines of economic policy and the recommendations for employment have never advocated a simple deregulation of the labour market , as the question states .
together with the reform of certain labour market regulations , they also include , for example , the need to adopt measures which will promote entrepreneurial spirit or active labour market policies - and we state this quite deliberately - to improve employment opportunities .
it is also quite normal for the commission to insist on the need to hold debates and make agreements with social partners so that they may actively participate in the changes to the labour market in each country .
the recent lisbon summit gave a new impulse to the union ' s economic and social agenda and we have also insisted on this point by talking of more and better employment .
i would also like to highlight , as a fundamental contribution to the consolidation of the progress made until now , the promotion and maintenance of rigorous regulations on health and safety at work , which has been one of the most prominent issues in the debate held in the commission , which advocates better jobs in europe .
labour market reforms directed at improving employment opportunities and workers ' ability to adapt to these new opportunities in no way seek to undermine working conditions or health and safety at work .
in accordance with its legal competence as laid down in the treaty , the commission has kept up the necessary efforts to implement and propose various legal instruments and monitor the incorporation of the acquis communautaire in this area .
the commission must guarantee that those directives are transposed into national law correctly and , clearly , to monitor all the issues relating to its application , which is the responsibility of the national authorities .
our concern has always been not only greater employment but also greater quality of employment .
nevertheless , you introduced a second element in your supplementary question which , in my opinion , is of great interest : why do we not establish the objective of full employment in the same way that we established the objectives of the treaty of maastricht at the time ?
in the case of full employment , the figure is the consequence of measures which are intended to achieve an objective , but which do not have a causal relationship which guarantees its objective .
what we can consider is what is being done in the various employment programmes , and that is the implementation of certain elements which will allow us to move towards full employment .
when we spoke of full employment in the commission document which served as a basis for the debate in lisbon , we expressly said that if we add the development of the economy in accordance with currently available figures to the various determining factors and policies proposed by the commission , full employment will be achieved .
however , this cannot be a political objective , as in maastricht , because it does not depend on the will of the different governments or on a specific decision by each one of them .
in the countries of the southern mediterranean , and specifically in the region of murcia , they have , in recent years , stopped managing unemployment and started to manage employment .
however , it is clear that accidents in the workplace - which i am now talking about - are a problem of education and mutual responsibility on the part of businessmen , the state , public administration and , of course , trade unions .
in spain , back in 1995 , a law was adopted in this respect , and they are trying to comply with it , but this cannot be achieved in a day .
therefore , commissioner , firstly , what active policies and which economic sectors do you intend to bring into play in order to achieve better education in this particular area , so that a sense of responsibility may be developed ?
consequently , both the funding of these immigrant education programmes and the active policies are decisions which logically depend on which social policy the spanish government accepts or decides on .
the legal acts which we are talking about here are legal acts passed by the council , by parliament , by the commission and by all the community institutions .
you , as a member of the most important legislative institution of the european union know full well that these legal acts have not been numbered consecutively .
if you think that commission officials are well employed if i sit them down and tell them to spend a week counting the legal acts issued since 1955 , then let me tell you that i do not .
i am curious to know how it helps if i tell you that this figure is 21334 or 21425 .
screening is used merely to identify the acquis of the european union and how much of it already forms part of the candidate country ' s legislation and how much does not .
i know that for the luxembourg group of countries , with which negotiations started in march 1998 , between 10 and 15 out of a total of 31 negotiating chapters have been provisionally completed .
with the helsinki group of countries , negotiations did not start until february of this year .
but whether or not that will be possible will only become apparent in the autumn of this year once we have the up-to-date progress reports on preparations for accession for each individual candidate country .
mr president , commissioner , my question does not concern the timetable ; instead i would like to ask a question regarding a principle of enlargement .
the process of enlargement is expected to be a truly demanding one , in which there is a danger that we either become frustrated by long waiting times or compromise over the criteria by granting overlong transition periods , which will naturally cause displeasure in the old member states .
mr president , it is certainly correct to say , mr verheugen , that the chapter has not been completed , but negotiations have started .
mr president , mrs muller , i assume that you know that accession negotiations take the form of a state conference at which the member states , not the commission , negotiate and i am not therefore entitled to divulge the content of negotiations which have not yet been completed .
the question which you actually want answered is the question of how we can prepare for the problems which will arise in certain border regions following enlargement .
but we have not yet reached that point .
i believe , in fact , that we can succeed in enlarging the union if we combine these two aspects : firstly , the free movement of services and employees and , secondly , more equal conditions when it comes to the dialogue between employers and employees .
mr president , to be honest , the underlying question was how many legal acts does the european union have .
all the acquis is taken into consideration in the progress reports on the candidate countries .
we must also report in the progress reports - as you will have noticed - as to whether a country is complying with the copenhagen criteria .
commissioner , we were in fact discussing the matter of transition periods .
thank you very much , mr commissioner , for your replies .
questions nos 41 and 42 will be replied to in writing .
also in the rules as i recall , you are only allowed to take one supplementary question per political group and these rules are being broken and as a consequence , for the second week running , i miss out on a question .
you may write the letter you mentioned and you will receive a polite and full reply , but please do not worry since my intention was to give you the floor within the time allotted .
in most cases the commission can close the examination of the notified aid project after the preliminary examination , that is without opening a formal investigation .
such decisions must be taken within two months following the receipt of a complete notification .
in practice , notifications are frequently incomplete so that the commission is forced to request additional information before it can take a decision .
when doubts are raised about the compatibility of an aid project with the common market , the commission must open a formal investigation for which the regulation provides an indicative time-limit of 18 months .
secondly , the cases for which a formal investigation is opened are usually very complex and therefore require a longer period of examination , often also involving meetings with the member state concerned and modifications to the original project .
once they are in force , member states will no longer need to notify aid projects complying with the conditions of the exemption regulations but can grant the aid immediately .
this will considerably simplify state aid procedures .
however , in some member states there is still a serious problem created by delays in decision-taking on state aids .
i am convinced that some jobs have been lost because waiting for the decision on state aid has meant that a company has gone out of business in the end because it did not have the approval in time .
does the commission therefore consider that all state aids to the nuclear industry are prohibited by the ec treaty , given that no derogation is specified , and that article 98 of the euratom treaty does not provide for a subsidised accident insurance scheme for nuclear risks ?
moreover , while articles 87 and 88 of the ec treaty do provide for a general principle prohibiting state aids , they also authorise specific categories of state aid .
the commission has not made any proposals to the uk government on the subject of the nffo system in application of article 88 of the ec treaty .
if , however , cases of incompatible aid are brought to the attention of the commission , such cases will be dealt with in compliance with the terms of the relevant articles of the ec and euratom treaties .
i very clearly understand your concern , but permit me some observations .
the proposed new framework for state aid to the environment is very flexible with regard to the granting of aid to renewable energies .
