it authorises aid of at least 40 % of eligible costs in the case of investment , and for operational aid the member states are entitled to adopt a system authorising aid up to 100 % of eligible costs .
aid to these forms of energy may , moreover , vary according to the member states .
the commission recognises that renewable energies may need support in order to be able to develop but , at the same time , it is also important for these forms of energy to adapt gradually to competitive markets in order to ensure their long-term development .
as far as the latter is concerned , community programmes for nuclear research are established by the council which , pursuant to article 7 of the euratom treaty , acts unanimously on commission proposals .
in this context , the activities of the jrcs are intended , in conformance with its mission , to increase protection and nuclear safety , and in particular , provide scientific and technical assistance to the competent directorates-general .
this is particularly true in the case of the competition rules , which do not derogate from the framework established by the euratom treaty regarding community nuclear research .
i conclude from your answers both to my question and the previous one that here we have not just a white elephant in the nuclear industry in europe but a holy cow .
commissioner , you say that neither the treaty nor the directive on the internal electricity market stipulate any exemptions regarding subsidies to the nuclear sector .
articles 87 and 88 make no reference to nuclear energy .
i can add that , on the operational level , as indeed i think i said in response to your own question , mr turmes , on existing aid to the nuclear industry , the commission is not undertaking a comprehensive investigation .
if , however , cases of incompatible aid are brought to our attention , then these cases will be dealt with in accordance with the terms of the two treaties .
i would further like to add that in the logical overall construction of the ec treaty , the articles governing state aid , i.e .
since the time allotted to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions nos 46 to 83 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , there are few of us here at this time in the evening , but it is also true that this is the third time we have debated this report in the european parliament .
on the first occasion , in december 1998 , this report on the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from new passenger cars was approved at first reading with 48 amendments .
the report therefore returned for a second reading .
it also seemed very important that we maintained something that was traditional in the positions of the committee on the environment : a certain degree of precaution in relation to voluntary agreements .
the committee on the environment had little faith in these voluntary agreements and another amendment asked for the establishment of a clear legal framework which would come into play in the event that the voluntary agreements failed .
mr president , in total , 10 amendments were approved by a substantial majority in this house and then not accepted by the council , and we therefore had to embark on this conciliation procedure , which i must point out has been neither difficult nor controversial .
it includes a study of the future inclusion of lightweight industrial vehicles , the possibility of shortly presenting a proposed legal framework and reviewing the data with a view to making them more rigorous and more or less equivalent in each of the countries .
in short , parliament ' s main concerns have been taken up , if not in an immediate and radical manner , at least to the extent that a commitment has been given to adopt decisions on this issue in the future .
mrs gonzalez alvarez , conciliation processes vary in difficulty , i can assure you .
reducing greenhouse gases by 8 % in comparison with 1990 is therefore the main objective between now and the year 2012 .
this joint monitoring scheme is the first of its kind and i think that its success or failure will decide whether or not we opt to introduce other similar schemes .
but despite all these efforts , directives and joint measuring schemes , we should not delude ourselves : we are unlikely to achieve the target objective of reducing greenhouse gases to 1990 levels .
that may well be pessimistic but if we consider that the number of cars on the road is continuing to rise in the 14 member states , oh excuse me , i meant 15 ; we austrians often have to stop and ask ourselves if there are 14 or 15 member states , but there are in fact still 15 , and if we consider enlargement to the east and if we consider that people in china and india also want to live as we do , then we should make no mistake : it will be difficult to achieve a reduction in greenhouse gases or co2 and we should therefore make every effort to stabilise them at the very least .
nonetheless , once in a while these words of wisdom fit the bill because our co2 strategy for cars is of course a new departure in that we are trusting in the willingness of car manufacturers in europe , korea and japan to take voluntary technical measures to reduce co2 emissions from their cars to 140g by 2008 , which will represent a reduction of around 25 % .
i think that all of us , especially of course the member states , need to give clear additional incentives , so that we really can achieve our objective of 120 g in 2005 .
since the rio de janeiro conference and then kyoto , the european union has always led the political side of the debate on climate change .
nevertheless , although europe continues to lead the debate in terms of rhetoric , it is beginning to lose the legitimacy to do so in a credible way .
in terms of political action , the transport sector must be our priority for the following two fundamental reasons .
secondly , because transport is the sector that is contributing most to europe ' s falling short of the levels set in kyoto .
according to a study recently published by the european environment agency , transport is responsible for almost 30 % of the european union ' s total emissions , and it predicts that the level of carbon dioxide emissions generated by this sector will increase by 39 % of the 1990 level by 2010 .
given this extremely disturbing picture , which shows that road transport is responsible for 85 % of total carbon dioxide emissions in the transport sector , and given the overwhelming need for action , the agreement reached in the conciliation committee on this system for monitoring co2 emissions from light passenger vehicles is to be welcomed .
this system is a crucial aspect in the implementation of the kyoto protocol and will ensure rigorous control of the voluntary commitment made by the car industry to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in new passenger vehicles by 25 % .
in any event , i congratulate mrs gonzalez alvarez once again on the results she has achieved .
mr president , commissioner , i intend to be as brief as our successful rapporteur in the conciliation procedure .
however , let me just offer her my hearty congratulations on her excellent report and brilliant success , as some of the previous speakers have done .
contrary to some previous speakers , i think it is most important that the report should seek not just to stabilise concentrations of greenhouse gases but to reduce them , especially given the fact that we need to achieve a demonstrable success by 2005 under the terms of the kyoto protocol .
i think it is fundamental , given the reservation which this parliament has always expressed in connection with voluntary obligations in environmental agreements , that we have managed to include the passage stating that data will be used from 2003 onwards to monitor the voluntary obligations of the car industry .
the adoption of this decision will allow the effectiveness of the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars to be monitored and , more specifically , it will provide credible data to monitor the implementation of the voluntary agreements with car manufacturers .
this strategy is one of the most concrete activities of the community on co2 emissions and reductions from the transport sector .
the debate is closed .
mr president , i hope that the two members due to speak before me were not travelling by train and have been delayed .
if you take lorries and buses from eastern europe on the a1 motorway , which is the most important east-west route , traffic increased sixfold between 1995 and the year 2000 .
the main requirements are , of course , to harmonise the gauge throughout europe , especially where more than two countries cooperate .
at the moment , we still have five different gauges .
mr president , first of all i should like to thank all the members who supported the rapporteur in his work in presenting these two reports which are , i believe , absolutely crucial to the future of the railways .
what is the subject matter ?
next , and this is the substance of the second report , we must discuss and vote on a proposed directive on the interoperability of the trans-european conventional rail system .
ladies and gentlemen , we must appreciate the full importance of this subject .
at a time when we have right here , in most of the countries of the union , a rail network and technology unparalleled in the world , with a recent study evaluating the external costs of road transport in terms of public health , infrastructure and pollution at some eur 480 billion , even though the objective of sustainable mobility and respect for quality of life are now shared by all europeans , it can be noted that rail has only an 8.6 % market share for freight , and 5.8 % for passenger transport .
there is more than one explanation for this paradox : rail ' s reduced level of competitiveness due to a social differential in relation to the road sector , but also the distortions of competition engendered by the considerable external costs of road transport , the priority which most major railway companies in recent years have given exclusively to prestigious high-speed passenger transport , but also excessive national characteristics in terms of railway traditions , techniques and protocols , thereby compromising the flow of continental rail traffic .
the issue at stake in railway interoperability is , of course , doing away with the technical frontiers that have been inherited from the national railway structures set in place gradually since the nineteenth century .
of course , the new high-speed train infrastructures offer a prime area for the introduction of interoperability , since they are new or recent networks devoted to very similar technology .
directive 96 / 48 was adopted for this purpose .
the report on its application , four years on , referred to parliament to express an opinion , delivers contrasting results , but results that are in the end more positive than they may seem .
in the first place , significant delay is observed in the transposition of laws and regulations since , to date , only two countries have transposed it and the first technical specifications for interoperability are on the point of being completed and published .
more than that , however , in anticipation of tangible results in future , the directive on the interoperability of high-speed routes has primarily made it possible to define and iron out working methods .
for the first time , the railway industry , rail companies and infrastructure managers have started up a joint project to define the technical specifications for interoperability .
finally , the committee established by article 21 , bringing together representatives of the member states and the commission , enables political and technical monitoring of interoperability projects and intervention at the discretion of states to direct such projects .
furthermore , we have to look to the future and , therefore , both the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism and the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy have proposed involving candidate country representatives in the projects at this early stage , so that they can anticipate this future acquis communautaire .
the aim of the directive - as with high-speed trains - is to harmonise technical provisions in order to ensure that conventional rail traffic within the union runs as smoothly as possible and to give candidate countries really exact specifications so that through traffic is also guaranteed after enlargement .
better services , greater comfort , less travelling time , increased safety and possibly also lower prices .
including these aspects will only result in the directive being difficult or impossible to manage .
allow me in closing to highlight the excellent cooperation once again ; i am optimistic that together we shall achieve the objective of creating as smooth a railway system as possible .
for a long time , the european parliament has been advocating a transport policy that promotes rail transport , as it is the form of transport that causes the least pollution , and in many situations it is the most comfortable for passengers and adapts most easily to long distance goods transport .
what we have seen , however , is exactly the opposite : the volume of rail transport of passengers and goods has been steadily decreasing , as has the number of people working in companies in those areas which nevertheless , still stands at around one million .
secondly , rail transport is considered to be a great deal more expensive than road transport .
as to this second aspect , some measures have already been adopted , with the construction and management of transport infrastructures themselves being separated in most countries of the european union .
the amendments that have now been tabled to establish rules for cross-border interoperability in the european union clearly show the direction we should take in this matter .
the interest demonstrated by the portuguese presidency in taking these dossiers forward as quickly as possible gives us hope that , with the contribution of the european parliament , this situation will finally change , to the benefit of rail transport .
in conclusion , i must emphasise that we socialists feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the european union ' s fundamental aims , and that , in the rail transport sector , support must be provided for europe ' s northern and southern peripheral regions and for specific and historical cases where costs of adaptation are very high but are absolutely essential , because their different track gauges have to be changed .
this is an important topic , but also an extremely complicated one .
there is one further matter which would require fine tuning ; this was outlined in amendment no 35 by my group .
it applies to finland in particular , but some of the applicant countries will be faced with the same problem in connection with enlargement of the union .
there is no certainty either that russian wagons in all instances would be regarded as special cases .
implementation of this proposal would give assurance that rail traffic in finland could continue without becoming drastically reduced .
mr president , environment commissioner , i am pleased that you are here because we can now address this matter straight away .
this gives me the opportunity to make a few comments on the environmental dimension to this proposal .
the passengers are unaware that it is two companies who are responsible for this one joint and frequent link .
my group would like to see trade-union rights , participation , working conditions and work pressure given a more prominent role .
luckily , the rapporteur is not yielding under the pressure to consider personnel as a cost factor alone .
mr president , mr savary ' s reports raise a matter of crucial importance to european railways .
given the alarming position rail finds itself in in most member states , intervention is vital .
i also hope that the council will accept our proposed amendments .
we are opening the markets but we need interoperability in order to do so .
in a few weeks ' time , we shall propose to parliament at second reading and by a large majority - there are still a few differences of opinion here and there - what framework market conditions and operating regulations are needed in order to create a european railway system .
all this , as the previous speaker has already said , will not produce a european railway system unless there is also a degree of interoperability on the technical and social side .
mr savary has also highlighted a very important point ; namely that we must ensure during the enlargement of the european union that the european railway system does not stop at the current borders of the european union but covers the whole of europe so that it can help to improve the environment and increase traffic safety throughout europe .
it is true that in a good number of european policies we put forward the need to transfer passenger transport , but most especially freight transport , from road to rail in order , on the one hand , to comply with our international commitments but , on the other hand , to reduce greenhouse gas emissions , to reduce environmental pollution in general , to relieve congestion on the roads and to reduce the social costs of road transport , which are borne indirectly by the community as a whole .
in transport policies within the european union , rail was overlooked .
only rarely was there a question of allocating aid to conventional rail systems in order to modernise them and so that they might compete , particularly with heavy goods vehicles on the roads .
moreover , we would point out that it is essential that the european parliament should incorporate staff training and health and safety conditions into this directive .
indeed , many of us still remember the conditions in which the transportation of radioactive waste between germany and france was carried out for many years .
in general , then , we consider this report to be a well-balanced one , and we also wish to congratulate the rapporteur , but we have nonetheless tabled a number of amendments in order to improve it still more .
most national railway systems in the member states have comprehensive rules governing the aforementioned social aspects and rather than lose them in the process of liberalisation at european level , we must harmonise them at the highest possible level .
secondly , in addition to agreeing to the minimum level of technical harmonisation proposed in the report , the preparation of ex ante cost-benefit analyses and the order of priorities for drawing up tsis , my group sets particular store by including the social partners , associations and organisations , passengers and users in the work of drafting and checking technical specifications for interoperability .
thirdly , we also support the proposal to allow representatives from the candidate countries of central and eastern europe to attend committee meetings from the outset .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the savary report follows the rationale of sustainable development .
as for conventional rail networks , it is time that interoperability was made compulsory , reinforced by considerable amounts of european aid which would , moreover , enable member states to safeguard their conventional local networks .
so border stops , changes in equipment and staff and , more importantly , transhipment operations should be limited to avoid putting a strain on reliability in terms of the time and service provided .
in my view , the most important points to be borne in mind are two figures , which are really quite shocking .
the first is that in 1970 , the railways had a 20 % share of the freight market , whereas today they have just 8.5 % .
and all this in the year 2000 !
we should all realise that a common market without a unified transport network is simply will-o ' -the wisp .
i would like to add two separate issues concerning my country , greece , since my capacity as chairman of the transport committee does not , i imagine , deny me the right to raise problems of this kind .
the first problem is that greece has no main cross-border rail links , especially with other member states .
mr president , i too regret the absence of the commissioner here this evening .
i begin by welcoming the commission 's proposal to integrate europe 's convention on a high-speed rail network .
as we have heard already this evening , in 1970 the railways had a 21 % share of the freight market , today just 8.5 % .
the sad fact is that the railways have lost ground even where there are well placed , for example , in long distance freight .
a key reason for this decline is that , in contrast to aviation and road haulage , a single market does not exist in this sector .
for 150 years , the railways have been organised along national lines .
more recently the railways have adopted 16 different and incompatible electronic signalling systems .
differences have also contributed to the fragmentation of the market for railway equipment .
this proposal being considered here tonight , together with other proposals from the commission , aims to create an internal market in rail services .
it would also boost the railway equipment industry in countries such as my own .
the revitalisation of the railways is crucial to the future of europe 's transport system , our environment and our economy .
it is high time that the member states forsook their national stances in favour of a european stance because it is national stances that have prevented the rail system from being vital and from retaining its passengers and freight .
the bridge will make it considerably easier to convey people and goods from sweden and finland to the rest of europe .
the only railway linking the two countries is that between haparanda and tornea .
coordination of the railway systems is especially important for those countries and regions which are not situated in the centre of europe .
the savary report is therefore very important and one step along the road .
mr president , commissioner , honourable members , literature has a few well-known words for what we are discussing in the two savary reports this evening : " you are late , but at least you are here " , was how friedrich schiller put it , words which also apply to our work here in the european parliament .
it has taken more than 100 years for us to pluck up the courage here and give the railways another chance .
but where we want to network europe in the long term , especially with the future member states of the union , things do not look any better .
in this context , a word to my austrian minister of transport .
the southern railway in austria is an old stretch of line and is of regional importance .
mr president , i believe that gilles savary has done magnificent work with these two reports .
the routes of the railway structures on our continent were set a long time before schuman made his famous speech on the quai d 'orsay .
furthermore - as others have said - almost every country has constructed its network in a radial manner , around its capital , which is a serious obstacle to all those who want to create a different kind of route , such as from spain to germany or italy to the uk without passing , for example , through paris .
paris and many other capitals and almost all intra-european borders act as barriers for through rail routes .
we have managed to harmonise the european economy , but the current rail network is not a useful instrument for the single market .
the inclusion of a social clause seems to me to be an excellent idea .
these workers have already paid the price for our forgetfulness .
their number has decreased by 500 000 in the last 15 years .
it is possible to revitalise the railway , as certain projects that have already been undertaken demonstrate .
a community which is undergoing a rapid process of integration and which is facing imminent enlargement needs to improve the efficiency and quality of the railway services it offers to customers .
this is already the case in the technical field , in the form of the european association for railway interoperability .
take , for example , the night train from amsterdam to milan which will be introduced from 28 may .
from a position , thirty years ago , when it had a more than twenty per cent share of the goods transport market in the eu , the railways are now down to having a share of less than ten per cent .
otherwise , there is an obvious risk that europe ' s railway network , at least where goods transport is concerned , will no longer exist within a few decades .
the next step is to help extend the eu ' s internal market to embrace the countries of eastern and central europe , too .
it is extremely important that we recognise the importance of a railway system .
one thing that has concerned me recently in my region is that , in europe , we talk about how important to regions it is that we should have the most environmentally friendly type of transport .
we have also recently had northern ireland railways tell us that they are going to close the link between coleraine and londonderry which is absolutely unbelievable and totally unacceptable .
there should be no more closures and we should make more finance available to improve the present railway system to have more goods moved by rail and not by road , which is totally unacceptable from an environmental point of view .
the directive must be seen , in the first place , as a technical measure , but the proposal is , of course , also of political significance in so far as it helps implement a common and open market for railway services and railway materials .
this has also emerged clearly in the course of the debate .
these differences affect not only interoperability but also the internal market for railway equipment .
the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism has adopted an amendment to the report and , in that way , backed our own proposal .
as you know , the council too has examined the proposal and , thanks to contacts between parliament ' s rapporteur , the presidency of the council and the commission ' s officials , it is entirely possible that the proposal may be adopted as early as at first reading .
those cases which are mentioned may be dealt with as special categories , as special cases or , at worst , as exceptions .
amendment 28 , article 22 ( 3 ) .
amendment 29 , article 24 ( 1 ) .
amendment 32 , annex i , together with amendment 35 on exempting passenger carriages from third countries .
amendment 39 , article 18 ( 3 ) and amendment 40 , annex vii .
the proposal therefore mentions a number of special cases ( cf .
allow me to leave the other amendments , because they all have our support .
i would conclude my intervention concerning the interoperability of the conventional rail systems by thanking parliament for its efforts .
parliament ' s proposal for carrying out an assessment of how much progress really has been made on interoperability is therefore very interesting .
at the request of a member state or of the commission , this would provide a picture of the trans-european rail system for conventional trains .
it is generally known that the railway sector is of crucial importance in terms of europe ' s future transport needs and a more sustainable european transport system .
secondly , please be so kind as to point out to your employees that the report is not from the committee on regional policy , but from the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , because we are devising a transport policy for the whole community , not just for the regions .
mr president , the report on safety at sellafield , published by the uk nuclear installations inspectorate , is a damning indictment of safety at the plant and falsification of safety checks there .
in mid-february chief inspector laurence williams said that he himself would pull the plug on the thorp reprocessing plant if his safety recommendations were not acted on .
it is time that the citizens of europe received detailed answers to the questions of the effect on safety and the environment of the falsification of data in the mox facility at the bnfl sellafield site - falsification that has been ongoing for some years - because of the seriousness of the questions it raises for the safety of mox fuel in use and for the nuclear installation 's safety generally .
it also raises questions for the transport of nuclear material such as mox fuel and , indeed , for nuclear safeguards because of the production of plutonium stockpiles .
i am also directly concerned with the effects of reprocessing on neighbouring states , such as my own , where radioactive contamination from sellafield has been found on the east coast beaches , in particular carlingford lough , where i grew up .
i believe the scandal of abuse of safety at sellafield is a european question .
in particular , the high-level waste tanks pose a serious , on-going risk to the east coast of ireland because of the risk of a release of large amounts of radiation should the cooling tanks overheat .
the nuclear inspectorate 's report stressed that the amount of high-level liquid waste continues to increase faster than bnfl can deal with it .
for more than 40 years high-level liquid waste has been stored in tanks at sellafield under constant cooling .
even then , they will still be highly radioactive for more than 50 years .
the problem for bnfl is that the amount of high-level liquid waste produced by reprocessing continues to increase faster than it can deal with it .
in committee i also queried whether a culture of corruption had spread to the independent quality assurance verification by lloyd 's quality assurance who verify that bnf procedures comply with health and safety requirements .
last september it published a report stating that bnfl has high-quality management in terms of health , safety and the environment .
i am therefore grateful that the european parliament decided to debate this important issue in plenary tonight and to adopt a resolution later this week .
let me now turn to the first specific issue which is the implications of the mox data issue for the safety of nuclear installations .
let me first remind the honourable members that under the international convention on nuclear safety the responsibility for nuclear safety rests with the state having jurisdiction over a nuclear installation .
it is also clear that our member states do not wish to give up this responsibility .
that is a quote from their report .
however , the inspectors ' report on the control and supervision of operations at the bnfl sellafield site also stated its opinion on the deterioration in safety performance at sellafield .
we are now awaiting the formal reaction of the inspector to this programme .
therefore , also for the transport of radioactive material the prime responsibility lies with the member states .
however , the commission welcomes any decision which would increase even further the safe transport of nuclear material .
the commission has as its objective to promote the harmonisation of the regulations in the field of transport of radioactive material , which would increase safety in the field .
finally , regarding the concept of proposing a euratom directive for harmonising minimum standards for nuclear safety in the european union and its value in discussions of nuclear safety with the accession states : individual eu member states ' safety requirements are more specific and demanding than those of the international atomic agency .
my concern is that any attempt to achieve a consensus on a set of common euratom safety standards might only result in a very generalised set of rules and principles .
i do not see any obstacles to future harmonisation of rules in the field of safe management of radioactive waste and decommissioning of nuclear installations .
in the context of enlargement , a directive setting out harmonised minimum safety standards might have facilitated our early discussions on the very sensitive issue of nuclear safety .
it is also difficult to prejudge if common minimum standards would give us the level of safety that we wish the accession states to aim for .
another major step forward was taken only last week with the setting up of a european nuclear installation safety group .
however , it is not clear that a directive requiring the harmonisation of safety standards at a european level at this moment in history is the best way forward .
it is very important that we retain a sense of perspective , a sense of proportion about this issue and i welcome the balanced response from commissioner wallstrom .
it is very important that we stick to facts and avoid some of the wilder claims that have been put in the green motion for a resolution on this issue .
i would like to quote also from the nii report that the fuel manufactured in mdf , the mox demonstration facility , will be safe in use in spite of incomplete quality assurance records caused by the falsification of some acceptable quality-level data by process workers in the facility .
i would also like to draw colleagues ' attention to the positive response by bnfl to the two reports made by the nii , one on the records incident and the other on the control and safety management regime at sellafield .
bnfl has responded positively to the 28 recommendations in one report and 15 recommendations in the other , the falsification report .
the offence of falsification of records must not negate or obscure the long-term case for reprocessing or mox fuel assemblies .
i welcome their launching of a project aimed at harmonising its members ' safety rules and practices .
mr president , the vast majority of united kingdom citizens or indeed eu citizens were deeply shocked and dismayed at the recent events at bnfl .
failure to comply in one aspect of an accredited quality system has led to a major loss in confidence in bnfl overall . " that is from a management which is now aware of its shortcomings , a management that foolishly engaged in staff reductions , now reversed thank goodness .
the highest standards are required of any nuclear installation .
i do not want to talk at this stage about the viability or wisdom of reprocessing nor about the economics of mox .
the main reason this is being raised in the european parliament is to point out the lack of european harmonised standards in the nuclear industry .
there are harmonised standards in almost every other aspect of european industry .
the commissioner says she does not feel it advisable to produce a communication .
i think one is needed in the near future indicating how we could achieve more harmonisation - of course not at the lowest standards in existence but at the most stringent .
the processing of spent fuel from 34 plants in 9 different countries was thrown into doubt and , indeed , japan , germany and switzerland stopped sending material - and quite rightly so - to sellafield .
a number of improvements have been made : the new chairman of bnfl has undertaken a fundamental review ; a number of people have been dismissed .
the fact is that the commissioner telling us that the rules of individual member states are more specific is simply not good enough .
we need high minimum standards and , in particular , we need those standards in the light of the accession of candidate countries , many of which are more reliant on nuclear technology than existing members of the union and have much older generating capacity .
the fact is that we need legislation to implement what is called for in the motion put forward by the three main political groups tonight : high minimum standards for the safe and reliable design , construction and operation of nuclear and nuclear-related installations , as well as for nuclear-safety management systems .
my group cannot support the green motion here tonight .
it raises the perfectly legitimate question of whether nuclear reprocessing should continue at sellafield .
but one cannot conduct this debate in the terms employed by the tabloid newspapers .
but it is an area where action at european-union level really can make a difference .
no one in this house could have been anything but appalled at the recent events linked to sellafield , with the falsification of mox fuel data and the nuclear installation inspectorate 's report on the low level of safety procedures at the plant .
bnfl was determined to press ahead with the sellafield mox plant to keep reprocessing going .
the nuclear industry has caused enormous damage already and we have to be certain that more and more communities and people 's lives are not blighted by its legacy in future .
mr president , an essential requirement in parliamentary work is rigour .
for the sake of this rigour , i would like to remind you of four facts relating to the case of the falsification of manual measurements of the diameter of mox fuel pellets at the british nuclear fuels installation at sellafield .
nevertheless , a mishap like this reminds us , despite its trivial nature , of the need to give utmost priority to the constant control and improvement of the procedures in an installation such as the sellafield reprocessing plant .
however , we should note that the response of bnfl to the nuclear inspectorate report has already resulted in very significant management changes .
we should also note that the chief inspector and the commission made very clear to the industry committee that there were no safety implications at any of the sellafield installations .
we seek to apply standards to the applicant countries in eastern europe and , i would suggest , beyond the applicant countries in eastern europe .
mr president , i have been a member of this parliament now for sixteen years .
i believe i am accurate in saying that literally in every one of those sixteen years the concerns of the irish government and the irish people about the nuclear processing plant in sellafield have been raised in this parliament .
we are aware that the germans and the japanese are sending their nuclear waste for processing to sellafield because it is politically too uncomfortable for them to do it in their own countries because of concerns about this .
i also ask her another question : are any of the non-nuclear countries on the nuclear safety committee you mentioned ?
mr president , i asked to speak in this debate not just because i am a member from the north-west region of england where the sellafield plant is situated , not just because there could be 10 000 livelihoods at risk if sellafield was closed , and not because i have any vested interest in the nuclear industry .
i asked to speak because i want to try and help to get some truth into this debate .
bnfl were the ones who told the nuclear installations inspectorate and their customers what had happened .
i quote from the independent where seven prominent danish scientists , who actually study as a professional interest the releases of radioactivity from sellafield , said on 12 may : " there is no scientific basis for the claim that the present release of radioactivity from sellafield causes an unacceptable contamination in the north atlantic and arctic regions . "
they would certainly not put their families at risk it that was the case .
mr president , as a cumbrian - born , bred and resident - and one of the representatives of north-west england , there is nobody in this parliament who has been more affected by the reverberations arising from recent events at sellafield than me .
speaking as a cumbrian i know a lot of people in my home county - which i have the privilege to represent - feel let down by british nuclear fuels .
in particular i know this is a very strongly held view in parts of ireland .
this true in ireland , denmark , the united kingdom or any other member state .
finally , just as the recent crisis at sellafield has been self-inflicted , so the solution to it lies in british nuclear fuels ' hands , as they themselves understand .
no uniform standards for safety and discharges , no community consultation procedure concerning power stations sited near frontiers , no clear community provisions for the storage and transport of nuclear fuels or nuclear waste , no adequate community system of information and monitoring in cases of nuclear malfunction .
nuclear safety in the enlargement process is a major cause for concern .
if nuclear safety and nuclear energy are so safe , why are not the majority of these installations located near the population centres of the south-east of england ?
but seen from an irish perspective , this stands logic on its head , we have counties antrim , down , louth , dublin , wicklow and wexford where the vast majority of the population of the island of ireland , about 2 million people , live on or adjacent to the irish sea where the majority of british nuclear institutions are sited .
furthermore in recent years , we have all seen how consumer concern about the integrity of the food chain can devastate a once seemingly secure market .
the reality of sellafield goes beyond the contribution to the kyoto targets on the dependence of the uk economy on nuclear energy .
it also includes a litany of unreported incidents , falsified quality control checks on mox fuel rods resulting in the loss of confidence by the japanese in safety standards at the plant and the cancellation by the germans and the swiss of mixed oxide nuclear fuel pellets .
the reality of sellafield includes incidents last september and early this year of deliberate sabotage , allegedly by members of the staff .
a director has publicly stated the future of the plant is in doubt .
it is in the interest of all of us to ensure that our citizens have confidence in our safety and security systems .
i am ready to come any time to any committee in parliament to discuss those issues .
but we must not give the impression that this would mean higher levels of safety in the european union , because with the unanimity rule on the decisions on these issues , the end-result could be that we have minimum standard rules which would not live up to the expectations of our citizens .
that is also why the commission 's responsibility in this area is restricted to control radioactivity - but no more than that .
it is not the first time that sellafield has been discussed and we need to look into the safety issues very closely because , you remember , there was an accident in japan .
so even in highly advanced societies there are serious risks with nuclear and processing techniques .
i should be pleased to come to parliament at any time to continue this discussion .
the debate is closed .
mr president , i would like to make a comment in relation to yesterday ' s minutes .
mr president , this matter is one of the utmost importance .
the lawyers - and i feel i should take the opportunity to mention this as well - michael hausfeld and martin mendelson , who represent some of the governments of eastern european countries , commented at the time that , in some respects , austria is in fact providing more generous compensation payments than germany , because in the first place , we are including the agricultural workers , and secondly , we are also paying compensation for children under the age of 12 and women who gave birth whilst in forced labour camps .
thank you for your statement , mrs stenzel . ( the minutes were approved ) broad outlines of economic policies the next item is the report ( a5-0134 / 2000 ) by mr katiforis , on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , on the commission recommendation for the 2000 broad guidelines of the economic policies of the member states and the community ( drawn up pursuant to article 99 ( 2 ) of the treaty establishing the european community ) . . ( el ) mr president , broadly speaking , the report tabled before plenary by the committee on economic and monetary affairs contains a particularly positive appraisal of the commission ' s recommendation for the broad guidelines of the economic policies of the member states .
the committee on economic and monetary affairs maintains that the requisite economic growth must be based on price stability and budgetary discipline , reasonable wage increases taking account of price stability , productivity increases and a reduction in unit labour costs , even in the case of reductions in working hours .
it also believes in greater liberalisation of competition , strengthening national competition authorities , providing special support for associations of small- and medium-sized enterprises and further developing the single market - especially in the public utilities and financial services sectors .
the committee also reiterates parliament ' s previous call for an interinstitutional agreement between the council , the commission and the european parliament on the subject of the adoption of the resolution , although it thanks the portuguese presidency for its willingness to cooperate on this matter .
this is ad hoc cooperation , however , not cooperation reflected in an interinstitutional agreement , and we consider this a shortcoming in our procedure .
ladies and gentlemen , we achieved a significant degree of consensus in our work in the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
this comment applies in particular to the target investment rate , which requires us to increase the potential rate of growth of the economy to 3 % on a permanent basis .
the european economy has a huge margin for growth ; it is true that the european economy can become more productive , but we need to be bolder in the way we go about it .
mr president , when drawing up this draft opinion for the committee on economic and monetary affairs , the committee on social affairs fully appreciated the importance of this resolution , parliament ' s first resolution on economic policy guidelines since the lisbon summit .
the subsidiarity principle needs to be steered in this direction with regard to the role both of the governments and of the decentralised institutions , without diminishing the decisive part played by greater synergy , greater coordination between the broad guidelines , and by placing greater focus on the european community dimension with a view to developing an economic policy which can enhance the potential for development in europe and allow us to effectively achieve the goals which we set ourselves with regard to full employment .
we have taken the chapters of the broad guidelines into account , in particular the aspects related to the introduction of flexibility and efficiency elements in the products market , the financial services market and the labour market , but we have also acknowledged the importance of the negotiations of the social partners and of social objectives .
a further consideration : we consider - and for the remainder we refer you to the text of the opinion - that parliament ' s role in this matter must be consolidated by formal institution of the procedure laying down a specific interinstitutional agreement on the participation of parliament in formal consultations on the economic policy guidelines and on the monitoring of their effects .
the second important cornerstone of the social market economy is the stability of the currency .
mr president , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and i am pleased that the committee on economic and monetary affairs , which is to negotiate , for the first time , with the troika of eu finance ministers on the broad outlines of economic policy , will enter into these negotiations with a report that will attract a broad consensus .
after all , the cost of unemployment in the european union is estimated to be 12 % of european gdp .
consequently , we are aware that we need a form of economic government in europe .
therefore , the fact that , in some ways , the us economy is doing better than the european economy , at least in terms of growth forecasts , should not mask the fact that the european economy is doing well at the moment .
in particular , we approve of the ambition to achieve full employment as well as its ambition in terms of sound social and , above all , salary agreements .
so if there must be structural reform in wages , then it must be in the direction of greater , and not less , stability in employment .
although i recognise the contribution made by parliament and our rapporteur in gaining acceptance once again for the concept of full employment , i think that the rapporteur himself , whom i congratulate on his efforts , would agree that we need to redefine what we mean by employment and by full employment .
as far as its general approach is concerned , the commission ' s recommendation forms part of a more general neo-liberal economic and social policy which , with the support of the majority of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , finds expression in the report under discussion .
as far as we are concerned , the basic policy objectives should be to support public investment , stable , permanent and full employment , protect and improve the social security system and the system of social protection in general and strengthen active demand by improving the purchasing power of the workers .
mr president , reading the broad guidelines for the economic policy presented by the commission for the year 2000 leaves one with a strange impression that something is missing because nowhere is there any mention of the single currency , except in a brief and fleeting reference , stating the importance of the maastricht criterion regarding the rationalisation of public finances or the need to gear monetary policy towards price stability .
there is not a word , however , on the current depreciation of the euro and its influence on the economy and economic policies .
the same is unfortunately true of the european parliament ' s report since , out of the 35 points raised in the resolution , not one relates to the single currency , and it is only briefly referred to in the recitals .
this reduction in the value of the euro is not something that mr duisenberg can do anything about , as this european central bank , whatever they say , is the brainchild of the two main states in the euro zone , and the french and german governments have given the order to do nothing .
in order to maintain the value of the euro in relation to the dollar , we should have to raise euro interest rates to a level which is slightly higher than that of the dollar , perhaps to a level in the order of 50 base points .
obviously , we cannot agree to all assets located in france being devalued if the downward slide of the euro continues beyond the short term .
it is now quite certain , however , that this state of affairs will always be best for all countries at all times .
social security arrangements must be critically examined and social expenditure reduced , but savings can also be made on social expenditure by making higher employment the top economic objective .
however , we must also reform our administrative systems .
when discussing economic policies in the context of this report , we should not forget about competition policy .
recently , the neutrality of the communities ' competition policy has been called into question - justifiably so - inter alia in the case of volvo-scania .
it is clearly a real blow to the industry and trade of small and remote countries while they are making efforts to increase their competitiveness within the union area .
i regret that the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy did not draw up an opinion on mr katiforis ' s report - it should have done .
we need scientists in order to have research and development .
commissioner busquin ' s communication on the european research area is very good .
mr president , as everyone is pointing out , the euro has just lost almost 30 % of its value in sixteen months , but the european commission , like the central bank , does not seem to be in much of a hurry to learn the lessons of this experience , as that would be liable to challenge the current monetary policy which benefits only stock exchange transactions and speculation .
the ambition to achieve full employment and a modern economy , as declared in lisbon , are indeed laudable objectives , but they are now effectively coming up against the liberal yoke .
in its document on the broad economic guidelines , the commission pursues this liberal approach , and these guidelines now represent the reference text for the coordination of economic policy in the member states .
the committee on economic and monetary affairs ' report is in line with this approach and with the continuation of the lisbon decisions .
this is why i am unable to approve of the guidelines contained in this report , especially when made exacerbated by the many amendments introduced by the right wing .
this new policy should be particularly based on support to investment that creates jobs by means of a selective policy of credit , the improvement in living and working conditions and a reduction of working hours without flexibility or increased precariousness , taxation on income and financial measures to curb speculation and to release new resources .
in fact , as recent events concerning the euro illustrate , the european union and the institutions are currently at a crossroads : we have the choice between the road to prosperity and growth , undertaking radical structural liberalisation reforms that europe must implement boldly , and the road of preservation and the perpetuation of a corporate , statist vision of the economy which is condemning many european countries to levels of unemployment which are two or three times higher than those in america and to a marginal role in the most innovative and dynamic sectors of the economy .
we italian radicals are also in favour of political control , but federalist , liberal control , with a limited number of clear laws and no state intervention in the economy , even by the european state .
on a positive note , attention is paid to the effects of an ageing population on the sustainability of government funds .
only since 1999 have both government expenditure and revenue fallen .
a further consolidation , a reduction in the debt burden , is desperately needed in many member states , so as to ensure that funds are available in future for health care and provision for old age .
mr president , i want to associate myself this morning with those people who have spoken in this debate and expressed some desire to challenge an atmosphere of complacency about the current state of the european economy .
unfortunately , spring had already started this year .
i would suggest taking into account conclusion 29 of the present report , which advocates a drastic renewal of the intellectual apparatus behind economic policy-making to bring it in line with the lisbon conclusions .
he proposes the drawing up of a single annual report on the economic and social state of the union , and one set of annual guidelines for sustainable growth , employment and social cohesion .
finally , i would like to draw the attention of the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs to the consensus-oriented cooperation which we have enjoyed in the committee on employment and social affairs in this sphere and add that we in this parliament should break though the compartmentalisation and endeavour to rise above the hobbyhorses of this or the other side and to have an input in , for example , next month ' s forum , precisely on that basis .
in my view , flexibility , liberalisation and monetarism are the one-sided aspects of this policy .
i come from a country whose people enjoy the rare privilege of being consulted in connection with such far-reaching decisions as participation in the euro system .
i only have time to mention a couple of points .
the other absolutely crucial point i would mention is directly connected with the subject of the current motion for a resolution : the political weakness of the euro system .
if we go down this path , then , for the first time in years , there is a chance that we could return to full employment in europe , and that is our goal .
mr president , the katiforis report is no more than a mundane vindication of the broad guidelines for the economic policies of the member states .
of its 29 paragraphs , 8 go in for approval and then 4 indulge in self-congratulation .
for our part , we have not been elected to offer congratulations to governments that come to the assistance of big business and major financial groups in order to enable them to accrue even greater wealth by exacerbating inequalities , leaving 18 million women and men unemployed , making flexibility at work and job instability more widespread , by making swingeing cuts in the total wage bill in order to ensure the continued growth of income from capital , including its most parasitic speculative forms .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the european union is having to compete with a series of challenges generated by globalisation and the creation of a new economy based on knowledge and new technologies .
consequently , in my opinion , broad guidelines for economic growth and a rise in employment should include measures to render the european market more competitive and increase job flexibility .
we need to introduce the reforms which will have to be implemented by the member states in order to alleviate the burden on firms , reduce labour costs , sustain actions supporting lifelong learning in the context of a knowledge-based economy and support research to close the gap between europe and the united states and japan .
we need to facilitate public administration structural reform in the countries where excessive red tape is a barrier to private investment and bring the social protection and taxation systems into line with the requirements imposed by the new economic rules and with the constraints established by the stability and growth pact .
the acclaimed macroeconomic development for job creation is so tied up in the self-regulation of the free market that it has not yet created any jobs , rather it has destroyed stable jobs , while , in the worst of cases , contributing to keeping salaries low in precarious employment sectors .
when speaking of the euro , i would point out two things : firstly , i would ask that the problem be looked at in its entirety , not simply the exchange rate problem .
nevertheless , i believe that there were elements prior to lisbon which anticipated or foresaw what was going to happen there and which have been incorporated into the broad guidelines .
many of you have referred to the idea of full employment as a fundamental element .
it is absolutely essential , in speaking of these objectives , that we know whether they are political objectives or whether they represent the possibility of achieving certain economic results , as a consequence of the policies we implement .
in any event , i would say to those who are concerned about this issue that the quantitative and qualitative assessment of full employment will become more efficient when we implement the indicators relating to the different policies .
some speakers have shown a degree of concern about the commission ' s habitual proposals on the flexibility of the labour market .
in our view , this flexibility will lead to a better balance in supply and demand in the labour market .
it will therefore lead to more employment , but also - as we have always argued - greater quality of employment .
the flexibility of the labour market involves many other things : we can talk about regulating working time , but also the removal of all the obstacles which currently stand in the way of employment , such as tax-related issues .
i would like to make an additional comment on two points .
firstly , with regard to the interinstitutional agreement , which has been of concern to the commission , and secondly , the problems of greater coordination in the face of greater subsidiarity .
it is also true that its implementation raises legal problems , as well as problems relating to the status of its participants , but i believe that , in any event , we should be satisfied with the progress made this year .
it does not take the form of an interinstitutional agreement , but the presentation of the document on the results of the broad guidelines for economic policies , which will permit a prior debate in parliament , seems to me to be a positive thing .
lastly , i would like to point out that something has been raised which may seem contradictory between those who argue for greater coordination of economic policies and those who argue for greater subsidiarity in the way these policies are applied .
i realise that for some of you this may seem like interference by the commission in the responsibilities of the member states , but that is what is laid down in the treaty , in the legislation which we have created for ourselves , and that is the commission ' s mandate : to make specific recommendations .
greater coordination and greater definition of global policies does not exclude , however , the existence of an additional margin for action on the part of the member states .
i would like to end my intervention by thanking you all for your contributions , your participation in the debate and for your majority support for the document presented .
perhaps this debate , on the 11 stability plans presented by the countries participating in the euro and the four convergence plans , is a good time to review the harmonisation between the subsidiarity and coordination required by the introduction and future of the single currency .
this , therefore , is the flip-side of the debate which we have just held on the report by mr katiforis , and we must firstly begin to think about the instrument .
i suspect that , in subsequent versions , the report will not be a single whole , but rather a detailed study will have to be made of the solutions , the weak and strong points , which this parliament detects in the economic policies proposed by the member states .
we would ask that the projections they make in the medium and long term take account of different scenarios relating to the development of interest rates , demographic development and other variables affecting the stability of our accounts in the long term .
we also ask in this regard - and i am returning to the debate on subsidiarity - for greater political commitment from the 15 national parliaments .
some member states have subjected the stability and convergence plans to internal debate in order to seek political support for this idea of jointly building economic unity , and we should ask the member states who have not done so to debate these programmes in their parliaments in order to try , firstly , to persuade those states and parliaments to participate in this common task and , secondly , to provide political support for the commitments which are agreed to regarding the necessary coordination of economic policies .
however , this cause for satisfaction is counter-balanced by the fact that , aside from the possible criticism that the objectives could perhaps have been more demanding and rigorous , we are seeing that the objectives have been achieved , not as a result of the interest and efforts of the member states , but simply to factors such as the favourable development of interest rates or greater than expected tax revenue .
we therefore believe that , although budgetary consolidation must continue to be a priority , the economic environment - which has improved a lot - must offer us the possibility of speeding up consolidation and , at the same time , undertaking structural reforms in the medium term .
it is clear that not all the states have implemented the labour reforms which we consider appropriate .
the improved performance of the labour market - which is clear - has been based on satisfactory economic growth , and not all the member states have made the rigorous reforms that they must make , more radical reforms , to resolve the unacceptable problem of the high rate of unemployment in the european countries in comparison to other countries and which is not only an economic blight but also , and above all , a personal and family blight which cannot be permitted in the modern europe of the 21st century .
it is also crucial that we liberalise the telecommunications and energy markets , and not all countries are doing so in the same way .
with regard to tax reform , we should welcome the reduction in the high level of taxes in france , germany , the netherlands and spain , and we should bear in mind that the high rate of unemployment often relates to the fact that we have high levels of tax .
in the long-term reforms , we should also include the serious problem of population .
perhaps it is time that we insisted that member states resolve the demographic problem at source , through a suitable approach to both tax revenue policies and social expenditure , in order to protect families with children .
this is the way to tackle the problem at source , and not only its effects .
that is why this report is so important , and in the light of the rapporteur ' s reference in his explanatory statement to the fact that greece ' s programme is not dealt with in detail in his document as it will form the subject of a special report , then , on behalf of my group , i am bound to say that it will be too late for the special report as far as we are concerned , because matters are not being handled as they were during the debate on the candidate countries two years ago in 1998 .
we have noted that , according to reports by the commission and the ecb , greece is currently fulfilling the convergence criteria , - when they are given a liberal interpretation , as happened in 1998 too - although one cannot help but have some doubts on the sustainability front .
mr president , the group of the party of european socialists endorses the rapporteur ' s proposals because it is quite clear from the first published report on the stability and convergence programmes that these programmes , along with the review , are not a mere exercise , rather , for the very first time within the european union , and especially within the euro zone , it is understood that economic developments , the financial perspectives , and also commitment in terms of budgetary policy , are not just the affair of an individual member state , but of all member states .
after all , monetary union is actually laid down and provided for in the treaty of maastricht as a community of stability .
it is evident from the annual exercise concerning the stability and convergence programmes that the eu member states are seasoned partners that are able to withstand criticism .
hence , the second round will be far more important than the current one , because , for the first time , actual criticism has been voiced .
i therefore believe that if these points were to be taken up , it could further enhance harmonisation , both in the context of the development of the internal market and of the euro zone .
mr president , the liberal group supports the rigorous and demanding report by mr pomes ruiz .
this would mean that we could make far-reaching tax reforms which would contribute to a more favourable environment for our economy , for business initiative , to freeing up resources and promoting them by fiscal means in an area which is one of our priority commitments : to be up-to-date and competitive at the most advanced levels of the information society and in the application of new technologies .
i would therefore like to insist once again on the need for a genuine direction for economic and monetary policy at european union level .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to begin by apologising for the fact that our austrian finance minister was unable , during the previous election period , to achieve the targets set by the council in march 1998 .
however , it is very clear from this report that other member states besides austria failed to adhere to all aspects of the council regulation in question .
the member states ' efforts to overhaul their budgets will only prove successful if there is a clear reduction in the taxation and social contribution burden within the eu .
the rapporteur complains that the objectives are more the result of higher than expected tax revenues and the favourable development of interest rates than of the member states ' own efforts .
however , we feel that , precisely in consideration of these undertakings and in the light of the current situation , the precise nature of any interventions cannot be identified in advance just for the sake of efficient budget control .
on the other hand , we are aware of the need for a more effective convergence process , for economic cohesion and , therefore , also for the approximation of the single currency , whose oscillation is no longer virtual but is in line with prices and taxes ; the need , of course , for more harmonious tax and fiscal policies , but also pricing policies ; for more harmonious investment policies as regards both research and the closing of infrastructure gaps , including within the individual states , but also for greater homogeneity in the action of public administrations .
in the debate we have just held we rather confused the three elements .
i would essentially like to refer to the one which seems essential today , that of the stability pacts , although i will mention certain other points which have been raised .
however , i would like to remind him that , within the framework of subsidiarity , it falls to the member states to define their own stability and growth programmes .
the commission must judge them , but it is not our job to give instructions on this point .
these structural reforms in fact fall within the broad guidelines for economic policies .
however , there is a point - the third which you referred to - which lies between the world of structural reform and the tax obligations relating to the deficit and , above all , the stability of public finances , in particular with regard to debt .
we will present a report in may on this specific point , in which we intend to consider not only the nature of income but also the nature of expenditure as well as how the reduction in public deficit has been achieved and what instruments have been used .
these are instruments of a permanent nature which have the same characteristics in each of the member states .
in many cases the member states have obligations which are not classed as debt , but which do , in fact , constitute debt in one form or another .
all of this will allow us to hold the debate which you have mentioned .
i said that i wanted to make a couple of additional comments on two points that have been raised concerning issues which are not strictly related to this report , but with the previous report .
i understand that concern , mentioned in the commission ' s report , about the sustainability of inflation , but i would also like to provide some information which may clarify the situation .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
adoption of single currency by greece the next item is the report ( a5-0135 / 2000 ) by mr goebbels , on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , on the proposal for a council decision for the adoption by greece of the single currency on 1 january 2001 ( com ( 2000 ) 274 - c5-0226 / 2000 - 2000 / 0110 ( cns ) ) .
it must be noted that private operators have also discovered greece .
the situation is far from perfect , of course .
the committee on economic and monetary affairs stresses the following points .
greece must continue to make efforts in order to ensure that the progress achieved in terms of disinflation has a lasting effect .
cooperation between the two sides of industry seems essential in order to maintain a situation of non-inflationary growth .
even if considerable progress has been achieved in terms of the implementation of structural reforms , greece must step up progress in the reforms which are still necessary , including the effective transposition of european legislation into national law .
parliament ' s response can therefore only be a political one , in favour or against , like any final decision in a genuine democracy .
there are probably some economic risks but these are more significant for greece than for the countries in the euro zone .
in joining the euro zone , greece will be forced to maintain the culture of stability which has been established since 1996 , and this involves pursuing a responsible economic policy .
the committee on economic and monetary affairs , by an overwhelming majority , therefore urges parliament to vote in favour of greece ' s accession to the euro zone in 2001 .
i should like to congratulate the danish and swedish governments on having decided to consult their citizens regarding accession to the single currency .
the shared objective of the fifteen member states to create a european union which is ever more closely bound , particularly comprising an area without internal borders , could not be achieved in full without a single currency .
the united kingdom , as one of the financial capitals of the world , will not be able to claim all the advantages of an ever more integrated european financial market unless it becomes part of it in its own right and takes on all the joint responsibilities and obligations required under economic and monetary union .
of course , the value of the euro has fallen in relation to the dollar and , to a lesser extent , in relation to the yen and the pound .
in the last twenty years , the deutschmark has experienced much more extreme variations in relation to the dollar .
in 1985 , the dollar stood at 3.5 dm .
in order to reach such a low level in relation to the dollar , the rate of the euro would have to fall below 0.6 to the dollar .
the fact is , the economic position of the european union is very sound , and is much more favourable than it has been over the last decade .
generally speaking , good news regarding employment makes the stock exchange nervous , as it makes them afraid of a rise in inflation .
they look for immediate returns , and currently this is a safer bet in the united states , particularly because of its higher interest rates .
this trend looks set to continue , as the federal reserve has just hiked up its interest rates .
with their sheep-like behaviour , however , the markets will ultimately come to realise , mr president , that , in the medium term , the euro will be a more secure currency than the dollar .
this clear endorsement is not diminished in any way when , so as to remain true to our firm belief in a strong euro , sustainability , price stability , and equal treatment of all countries , we inevitably make reference to the need for greece to keep up the good work , and encourage it to do so , and also point out that a great deal still remains to be done in greece before sustainable price stability and a balanced low-debt state sector are achieved .
i say this because whilst we recognise that there has been a sharp decline in the rate of inflation , this can be attributed in part to transient factors .
we are in favour of greek membership , but would call upon and encourage greece to continue to implement the necessary measures and to guarantee sustainability in the spirit of the stability pact .
it is important for the european internal market to at last be properly completed .
this will only be feasible if every last member state of the european union joins monetary union .
like any other member of the european monetary union , greece will have to continue to make efforts and to acquit itself of its responsibilities .
that is why it is so important for there to be consensus between the major political parties and the social partners .
mr president , on behalf of the liberal group i would like to welcome greece into the euro and say that we shall certainly be voting in favour of greek membership .
historically , that research found that the euro actually swooped between a high of usd 1.70 in december 1979 and a low of just usd 0.69 in february 1985 .
it plunged to dem 3.45 against the dollar at the end of february 1985 , which is a third below its current rate of dem 2.16 to the dollar .
a large part of the economy pays no taxes and the basic taxes which exist in other member states do not exist in greece .
the average greek taxpayer pays more than other europeans but total tax revenues in greece are much lower as a percentage of gdp .
this structural change is pending , while our government is confining itself mainly to privatisation .
other important structural changes are also pending , such as the need to strengthen regional authorities and their financial independence , reorganise cooperatives in all sectors from the bottom up and liberalise and strengthen the social economy and the third sector .
these are the areas which need to be strengthened immediately if sustainability is to have a future .
mr president , the european parliament report on greece ' s adoption of the single currency on 1 january 2001 is remarkable , more by virtue of the political will it expresses to enlarge the euro zone than by its concern for technical exactitude .
it is , however , true that greece has made considerable efforts in order to meet the maastricht criteria and has achieved good progress , except in a few areas , such as public debt , but on that subject there are some countries within the euro zone that are doing no better .
nonetheless , the european institutions did not feel that they should postpone greece ' s accession so as not to give the impression that they had anything to fear and , from that point of view , the position seems perfectly logical , albeit somewhat risky .
the fact is , the more the euro zone is extended , the harder it will be for the single currency to represent nations which are very different , and the more it will be recognised that it would be much simpler to make the system more flexible by having the euro develop into simply a common currency , overlapping with the national currencies with a degree of flexibility but not replacing them .
the new democracy team within the european people ' s party has always vigorously supported the policies needed so that greece , which was outside the first round of member states , could honour the obligations needed in order to join the euro zone .
in fact , economic development and convergence policies started in greece at the beginning of the 1990s , as both the commissioner and the representative of the european central bank stressed during the meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , and they concern various governments and various political powers .
emu will be a real success once it succeeds in uniting all the member states , far more member states such as sweden , where convergence is proceeding exceptionally well .
for the time being , we call on the european parliament to vote in favour of greece ' s accession to the euro zone and we assure you that , as far as we , the main opposition are concerned , we shall use our policies to support the efforts being made to apply the rules of the stability pact and to honour joint european obligations within the framework of a unified country without borders .
on 17 january last , the greek drachma was revalued by 2.5 % , mainly to push down inflationary trends .
at the moment , the short-term interest rate in greece is about 600 basic points above the european central bank ' s level .
participation from 1 january 2001 means that the short-term interest rate must come down by the end of this year at the latest .
the world has many examples of where such a slippery slope can lead ; however , there are relatively few examples of a country which has found the strength not only to stop but to reverse the decline and manage to satisfy the extremely stringent stability criteria of today ' s world .
this success is particularly significant because it was built on the basis of an economy which was not rich and not particularly strong .
and we shall make the same effort in the future , not because you are strict and we have to , but because it is in our interests to do so .
this effort is dictated by our wish to have a better standard of living , to run a modern economy and to prosper with the rest of europe .
in joining , we have shown our trust in europe , in monetary union , in the prospect of economic unification and in the success of our common economic fate .
mr president , the commission ' s and the ecb ' s convergence report deals not only with the greek , but also with the swedish , convergence programme .
even if the economies of great britain , denmark and sweden are going well , it must be clearly pointed out , as it was by commissioner solbes mira in the committee on economic and monetary affairs , that , if the spirit of the treaty is to be complied with , no member state can , in the long term , place itself outside so strategic an area of cooperation as the common currency .
the euro provides europe with economic stability and competitiveness .
as far as emu in general is concerned , we are in favour of real economic and monetary union .
this is the opinion expressed by the nobel prize-winning economists friedman , tobin and modigliani .
the goebbels report tells us that parliament ' s reply cannot but be a political one and assures us that greece ' s accession to the euro zone does not involve any political risk .
however , the report adds that there are economic risks and that they are greater in the case of greece than in the case of other countries belonging to the euro zone .
there is no danger to the economies of the other 14 member states .
the sole aim of the economic policy pursued by greece over recent years has been to satisfy the convergence criteria .
the structural changes needed have not been carried out and privatisation has been presented as the new panacea for development and prosperity .
securing budgetary discipline strengthens price stability and creates conditions which are conducive to creating much needed employment within the territories of the union .
the stability and growth pact calls for member states to reach , in the medium term , a budgetary position close to balance or in surplus .
the principle of the stability and growth pact is also a logical progression from the criteria laid down in maastricht for the member states to comply with economic conditions for participation within the new european single currency .
it is clear that greece will shortly join the existing 11 member states who are participating in the economic and monetary union , and i wish to congratulate greece on its economic recovery and wish it well in the future .
it is known that the vast majority of countries from eastern and central europe want to sign up to the process of economic and monetary union in as short a time as possible , but i believe that the european central bank has to outline a clear strategy as to how it intends to bolster the value of the new euro .
mr baron crespo , the problem is that the text is still not available in french , spanish and swedish , thus presenting a problem in terms of our rules of procedure .
that is why the bureau proposed this solution .
mr baron crespo , i quite understand your objection .
we have an agreement with all political groups in this parliament that we would accelerate proceedings for this directive .
the council will be convening before our next plenary sitting .
this means that if we do not adopt a resolution here , the council will be unable to adopt its position either , and everything will be shelved long term .
one thing i would stress , however , is that it will not be acceptable in future , to discuss reports here and , if applicable , vote on them , if a ) if the reports have only been decided on in committee that same week , and b ) the translations are not available either .
ladies and gentlemen , i appreciate the importance of this discussion , but i propose entering the debate on the agenda for tomorrow , as the bureau wished .
the first is this : since this directive was first proposed , the whole furore across the european union because of events in austria and elsewhere , where the extreme right has come forward , has caused us , as a parliament , with the widest possible across-party support , to work with the council and the commission to agree an accelerated timetable to enable this directive to go through to provide the strongest possible response to the racist and extremist threats that undermine our combined values .
that deal with the council and with the portuguese presidency said that we would agree in this parliament this week prior to the council of ministers ' meeting in june .
the debate is indeed going to take place as scheduled on the agenda and , like everyone in the house , i appreciate its importance .
nonetheless , i suggest that you accept my proposal , which is this : that the debate should take place as scheduled on the agenda and , tomorrow , the sovereign assembly , after consulting the groups , shall decide whether or not to vote on this report during the present part-session .
surely it is up to all of us here at the plenary sitting to decide whether or not the vote should take place during this part-session , not the conference of presidents ?
i suggested reconciling points of view within the groups and then tomorrow , in the house , discussing the timeliness of voting this week .
madam president , i just wish to emphasise on behalf of the liberal group the desirability of debating and voting this report this week .
after all , if it were technically impossible , the services would never have proposed that it be voted on tomorrow .
would the presidency please organise the secretariat and herself in such a way as to accord all members the same right to speak on the matters over which they wish to take the floor .
it is deplorable to talk of democracy and human rights and then not give members the right to read the texts in their own language or to speak in the chamber .
furthermore , the increase in the number of vehicles plays a major part in the increase in co2 emissions .
despite its limitations , we nonetheless voted in favour of the gonzalez alvarez report .
smet report ( a5-0129 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the report on the conciliation process concerning the organisation of working time , first and foremost in support of the article on doctors in training .
above all , however , my vote for the motion is an invitation to consider reducing not just the working time in a worker ' s day but the time he spends working over his entire lifetime .
this intolerable situation and the abuse of workers in the above specialist sectors as regards their working times is of a nature and is taking on dimensions which are such that rules must be imposed without delay , given that workers such as doctors in training in great britain work up to 72 hours a week .
under certain conditions , this period can be extended by another two or three years .
needless to say , we feel for the many member states which struggle with inadequate staffing levels in their health sector .
however , the member states have known for a long time that they will need to adapt to the working times directive in the long run .
this favourable vote is of capital importance as it concerns the health and safety of some 7 million workers in europe .
as a french member of the parliament ' s committee on employment and social affairs , at second reading , i supported parliament ' s position which , in particular , provided for a four-year transition period for doctors in training , with a maximum working week of 54 hours , over a four month reference period .
the conciliation process produced an agreement whereby doctors in training will be covered by the directive , as far as its scope of application - a maximum 48-hour working week over a four-month reference period - is concerned , after a period of nine years .
the nine-year period is to be subdivided as follows : a four-year transposition period and a five-year transition period .
in the first three years of the transition period , the number of weekly working hours shall not exceed 58 , or 56 during the last two years .
these states may therefore be permitted an additional period of two years .
the commission will make a statement on the notification of the relevant member state , after consulting employers and workers at european level , as well as representatives of the member states .
the notification , the opinion of the commission and , if this opinion is not acted upon , the member state ' s justification , shall be published in the oj and sent to the european parliament .
mrs smet ' s proposal extends the general rule of 48 hours to some of these sectors .
the position of these doctors in training is similar in many countries : working weeks of 70 and 80 hours in conditions that are occasionally disgraceful and sometimes dangerous to patients .
especially as the proposal divides this twelve year period into several distinct periods , each with their own rules for the maximum working week : until 2004 there will be no change , there will be no restrictions on working hours ; between 2004 and 2007 the maximum working week will be 58 hours ; between 2007 and 2009 it will be 56 hours ; between 2009 and 2012 it will be 52 hours .
roth-berendt report ( a5-0117 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the roth-behrendt report , although , as before , my vote in favour of the motion is also a call for improvement of european legislation in the field of the implementation of the precautionary principle .
it is all very laudable to attempt to prevent the risks of bse at community level today , but it was almost 15 years ago that our researchers clearly established that one of the causes of mad cow disease was the consumption of cattle fodder containing animal-based meal made from ingredients taken from the carcasses of sheep suffering from ovine scrapie .
above all , it would be an outrage if member states which have set up a screening programme based on tests far stricter than the community programme were to be penalised , in terms of classification with regard to bse-related risks , in comparison with states which have confined themselves to the minimum community programme .
this is not the purpose of today ' s report but , in view of debates we will have in future , i wished to state this publicly .
we must give our support to the interoperability of european railways as a means of revitalising and developing the sector at international level , in order better to meet users ' needs , and also as an instrument for protecting the environment .
we are also aware , and are therefore bound to express our concern about this , that the proposals currently being discussed are part of a package of measures designed to liberalise the sector , and that the experiments that have already been carried out in this area have certainly led to a deterioration in safety and social conditions for workers .
savary report ( a5-0112 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the second savary report , which differs from the previous report in that it refers to a trans-european high-speed rail system .
my point , this time , is that there is also room for improvement in this high-speed european transport system , in that it should be designed for use by ordinary citizens as well as businessmen who want to travel from madrid to copenhagen or somewhere even further away in as short a time as possible : businessmen can always go by plane .
the high-speed sector and the conventional rail system respond to quite different philosophies .
only half of the members of the very same committee voted for the latter .
on the high-speed rail system report the environment committee , astonishingly , did not deliver any opinion , even if the environmental aspects are not mentioned in it at all .
the objective of the directive before us today was to publish the technical specifications for interoperability ( tsis ) for six sub-systems - maintenance , infrastructure , energy , rolling stock , operation and control-command - beginning the work of standardising components in collaboration with cen , cenelec and etsi , and establishing in each member state a list of notified bodies instructed to assess the conformity of the components produced by the relevant industries .
national disparities are a considerable obstacle to the development of rail transport in europe , in spite of the many advantages of this means of transport in terms of sustainable development , pollution and safety .
the figures speak for themselves : in 1970 , the railways had a 21 % share of the goods transport market ; today they have only 8.5 % .
the second important criterion is the public deficit .
these are the conditions under which the majority of my group will vote in favour of greece joining the euro zone .
the commission has now concluded that greece fulfils all the convergence criteria .
it is quite an achievement to meet the convergence requirements and , at the same time , as greece is doing now , to achieve increases in growth and employment .
however , the swedish parliament has instituted a number of changes to the legislation concerning monetary policy in order to facilitate sweden joining the euro .
the swedish government sets an extremely bad example for the candidate countries which are , at this moment , waiting to join .
greece probably does not meet the criteria any more or less than other countries did .
this affects the large countries such as germany , france and italy as well .
greece joined the european monetary system two years ago and revalued the drachma early this year .
it could only reduce the public debt by a small amount : only by 6 percentage points over eight years , in contrast to italy and belgium , which were able to reduce their debts by a far higher amount .
mr president , i am wholly and unequivocally in favour of greece ' s adoption of the single european currency , the euro .
when , as the report maintains , we consider that all the maastricht criteria are fulfilled and that , in addition , this country is called greece - an enchanting name in itself - we cannot fail to realise that this cannot continue and be moved to remedy the situation .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the progress greece has made in its endeavours to fulfil the convergence criteria is indeed impressive .
greece has only been able to achieve the reference value for the permissible inflation rate in the last few months .
mr president , the euro was born two years ago .
we are , unfortunately , the country without an emu strategy .
for my part , i can only congratulate greece as the twelfth country to adopt the euro .
there needs to be more rationalisation of the budget , more exposure to competition , more deregulation and a more rapid phasing-out of monopolies .
if the governments of europe give priority to this work , we shall immediately find confidence in the euro increasing .
however , i would like to begin by congratulating the greek government on the outstanding results it has achieved in the course of the last year as regards public debt and inflation .
today we are studying the report on convergence , which deals with the swedish and greek problems .
with regard to sweden , the situation has hardly changed since 1998 .
with regard to greece , the situation is radically different .
greece did not fulfil the convergence criteria in 1998 but now it does .
in this respect , it is quite clear that the way we deal with greece will be crucial but i want to insist that greece has been treated in the same way as all the other countries when their situation was considered back in 1998 .
we must not forget that belgium and italy have benefited from the fall in debt resulting from the reduction in interest rates , which is due , in particular , to the approximation of the interest rates of their central banks with those of the european central bank .
the second point of concern is inflation .
i understand this concern on the basis of two arguments : firstly , it is true that the level of inflation necessary to comply with the criteria was achieved relatively recently ; secondly , there will also be a reduction in the interest rates and this will have a positive effect on speeding up the reduction in deficit and debt , but which may generate tensions in the market .
greece has been complying with the inflation criteria for some months and the situation is improving considerably .
at the moment , the harmonised cpi , in the case of greece , stands at 2.1 % , a drop of 0.7 % on the march figure ; this is a better situation , for example , than certain countries of the monetary union , such as belgium , spain , ireland , italy , luxembourg and finland .
in comparative terms , therefore , greece ' s current situation is quite sound .
therefore , in terms of figures , i believe that we should not worry about the greek situation .
however , the commission also shares the concern which certain meps have highlighted .
we have therefore insisted on two points in discussing both the broad guidelines for economic policies and the convergence report .
greece has to do two things , and the greek government is prepared to do them and has committed itself to doing them : firstly , it must continue with its liberalisation policies and structural reforms which will improve the inflation situation ; secondly , greece must continue with its policy of reducing the deficit , but in a context of combining policies , a ' policy mix ' , which will allow it , in the event that an increase in demand , resulting from a reduction in interest rates , may create tension in terms of inflation , to reconsider its tax policy so that it will not have negative effects on the process of integration into monetary union .
we must wait for its culmination with the decisions in june , but i am convinced that , by welcoming greece into the euro when the time is right , we will generate more confidence in the face of any other type of arguments against the future progress of the single currency .
thank you very much , commissioner solbes mira .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
but today ' s debate is to be welcomed with open arms because it exemplifies the new form of transparency in the commission ' s legislative work in areas where it has supervisory powers , and also bears witness to the interest commissioner monti and his offices take in the opinion of the european parliament .
the businesses which the directive covers have special or exclusive rights or provide services of general economic interest .
the majority of the committee on economic and monetary affairs has wholeheartedly endorsed this measure because there is a need for more transparency within the internal market .
it is for the member states to decide whether supplying television transmitters constitutes a public task and , as such , whether or not every single transmission is included .
however , competition rules are not an end in themselves but the means to an end of undisrupted operation of a social market economy in the internal market .
mr president , article 86 of the treaty captures the very essence of the resolution .
paragraph 1 stipulates that in the case of public undertakings and undertakings to which member states grant special or exclusive rights , member states shall neither enact nor maintain in force any measure contrary to the rules contained in this treaty .
paragraph 2 adds , in summary , that undertakings entrusted with the operation of services of general economic interest shall be subject to the rules contained in this treaty .
as a means of guaranteeing a level playing field , the commission has decided that undertakings with a net turnover in excess of eur 40 million should keep separate accounts which should illustrate the different activities , the costs and profits pertaining to each of the activities , the method according to which costs and profit are accounted for and the way in which the net profits generated by each activity are used .
in actual fact , there was only a handful of ppe-de members and the liberal group who were in favour of the planned transparency .
the commission is , in turn , responsible for observing article 86 .
in the report on the adoption of the single currency by greece , i blame the governments for not doing what needs to be done .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i should like to make three points regarding this directive , and the consultation , on which i should like to congratulate our rapporteur .
at the present time , there is no definition of services of general economic interest at european union level .
we must therefore bring subsidiarity into play , and we are well aware that in such areas , national sensibilities may be expressed in diverse ways .
my third observation , commissioner , is on public broadcasting services .
once again , i cannot ignore what we incorporated into our treaty when we amended it in amsterdam .
this shows the determination of the member states to treat this sector as a sector in its own right falling outside the rules of competition which exist in other areas .
state radio stations and tv companies now often provide services which are outside the scope of what we call services in the public interest .
both these obligations are simple means of upholding the rules governing relations between private and public undertakings .
first of all , i should like to thank commissioner monti for having had the courtesy to consult the european parliament .
my second comment concerns the actual purpose of this proposed directive .
thirdly , i should like to know the commission ' s reaction to recital no 4 of our report , in which the rapporteur and the committee on economic and monetary affairs effectively ask the commission to specify how important it considers services of general interest to be .
i should therefore like to see the commission expressing its support for amendment no 3 as proposed in plenary .
thank you very much , mr president .
i would like to join my colleagues in thanking commissioner monti for consulting parliament on this matter and in congratulating our rapporteur for her great job .
there are those who would like to see undertakings which are only in direct competition with the private sector to be subject to the terms of this directive , whilst others would propose that public undertakings which are clearly of a general interest could fall within the exceptions in this directive .
i would like to remind this house that the protocol attached to the treaty of amsterdam of the eu recognises that the system of public broadcasting within member states of the eu is directly related to the democratic , social and cultural needs of our society .
i would argue that it is more essential , now that we have a strong public service broadcasting sector , to ensure the maintenance of that democratic , social and cultural sector .
this directive has been in force since 1980 and it is certainly high time that it was revised , because it is out-of-date in many aspects on account of the liberalisation process .
these credit institutions were completely excluded hitherto .
fourthly : the definition of services of general economic interest .
i obviously agree with the rapporteur that competition rules must be applied rigorously in order to prevent cross-subsidies that go against the purpose of the aid .
however , in the sphere of public broadcasting it is essential to remember that , in accordance with the amsterdam protocol , in the system of public broadcasting in member states , it is up to each member state to specify the financial and organisational structure of public service broadcasting .
mr president , despite this discussion in parliament concerning the changes which the commission would like to make to the directive on the transparency of financial relations between member states and public undertakings , we will not have much of a say in it because it will be the commission , and the commission only , that will make decisions without further involving the european parliament or the council , much to our regret .
in our opinion , on the basis of its autonomous powers concerning competition policy , the commission approaches some sectors from a purely economic angle without taking into consideration other social aspects .
for example , in the dossier on financing public broadcasting , the commission still overlooks the cultural aspects and the aspect of media-pluralism , to our mind .
i am , therefore , of the opinion that the igc should apply the normal legislative procedure for codecision by the council and parliament to general competition policy legislation .
as it stands , the directive on transparency gives the commission the authority to carry out inquiries into financial relations between member states and their public undertakings .
in short , the draft amendment to the directive is intended to ensure the introduction of separate accounting procedures for specific types of firms .
clearly , the profits generated by the continuation of reserved activities or by compensation provided for reasons of general interest or public service are not intended to finance competitive activities , and must therefore not give rise to internal subsidies .
i would also like to stress that the obligation to keep separate accounts also benefits the member states , in that it provides them with the necessary information in order to avoid granting state aid which does not comply with the treaty and to notify the commission of the aid envisaged .
the directive requires that companies which provide general services and which , at the same time , operate outside that public service mission , keep separate accounts .
the directive lays down the principles for the introduction of greater transparency , although , in observance of the subsidiarity principle , it leaves the member states free to adopt appropriate national measures .
mrs beres , mr jonckheer , mr crowley , mr skinner and mrs maes remarked that it might be possible to exclude broadcasting .
if we were to raise this threshold we would be excluding companies where , due to their size , we cannot suppose that the aid does not affect trade between member states .
in any case , in order to give an idea of the size , only 0.2 % of all non-farming enterprises in the community are above this threshold .
as mr olle schmidt stressed , this transparency is essential not only for a proper application of competition policy but , indeed , if i may say so , it is also crucial for there to be a proper relationship between the authorities and the taxpayers , the citizens .
thank you very much , commissioner monti .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
the un secretary-general also fervently appealed , on 3 april last , to the donor countries and international financial institutions to cancel all the official debts of the highly indebted poor countries from their accounts as a millennium gesture .
therefore , i would ask whether the council is aware of all the initiatives which have hitherto been adopted by each individual country of the union to reduce or cancel the debt of highly indebted poor countries , and whether it would be possible for a resume to be produced showing the practical actions which have been undertaken by these countries and the commitments made , to prove that these initiatives are not just mere political vote-winning manoeuvres , as they all too often appear to be .
mr president , resolving the problem of the external debt of less developed countries is undoubtedly an essential factor in the stability , security and development of these countries , in eradicating poverty and in stemming the migratory flows that affect and weaken them .
a project of this kind can only succeed through debt relief , which cannot be reduced to a process that is merely full of good intentions , as recommended by the g7 countries , whose contribution represents no more than 1 % of third world debt and which is today limited in practice to partial debt relief for just three or four countries .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , initiatives in favour of cancelling all or part of the third world debt are proliferating in the year 2000 .
not only do the countries of the south not have the financial resources to pay back their debts but , on top of that , the international economic order , which has foisted a demented concept of liberalism on the world , is preventing the majority of our partners in the south - i am thinking in particular of those in northern africa and sub-saharan africa - acceding to the conditions for development that is even remotely sustainable .
political and economic balance are , on the other hand , devastating to a world which is increasingly unipolar .
mr president , hearing the other speakers , i note that we all agree on the facts .
the 50 poorest countries spend twice what they receive in aid in order to pay off their debt .
an average of 40 % of the budget of poor countries is dedicated to debt payments .
not only does that undermine their economic development , not only does that significantly reduce their ability to provide basic social services , such as health or education , but it creates a sort of slavery which benefits western societies .
the g7 countries announced amid much publicity a debt reduction programme , but conditions are such that it cannot be applied .
this initiative remains subject to macroeconomic reform programmes under the aegis of the imf or the world bank , which run counter to the objectives of eradicating poverty , due to their restrictive effect on the ability to spend on social services and job creation .
the indebted countries were expecting a strong message from the conference between the european union and africa held in cairo recently .
finally , what is the commission ' s reaction to the requests presented by some civil society organisations in the countries of the south for improvements in monitoring the macroeconomic adaptation plan , by organising conferences on national development , in order to give public opinion in these countries an opportunity to define national priorities and projects ?
nevertheless , it should be noted that the european union has not shrunk from participating in all the initiatives to provide debt relief for the poorest countries .
the community and the member states then committed themselves to take part in this initiative by providing exceptional aid to the acp countries on the basis of the commitment given by the international financial community to reduce the indebtedness of these countries to a sustainable level , on condition that the countries concerned would implement economic reform programmes .
in july 1998 , the council approved a decision on exceptional aid for the highly indebted acp countries and earmarked an initial sum of eur 40 million from the interest accumulated on european development fund funds .
in june 1999 , at the g7 summit , the heads of state and government agreed to extend the hipc initiative in order to provide more substantial and speedy debt relief .
these resources could also be used , up to a maximum of eur 680 million , as a contribution to the hipc trust fund managed by the world bank , with a view to overall financing of this initiative .
the european union has also guaranteed eur 250 million of additional constitutional funds for structural adjustment , to make it easier for eligible countries to access debt cancellation measures .
furthermore , it is worth adding that , following the resolutions i have just mentioned , and also as a result of the decisions taken at the recent cairo summit , various member states have stated that they are already willing to unilaterally add their own measures for the reduction , conversion or complete cancellation of huge amounts owed by developing countries , particularly by the highly indebted poor countries .
the european union believes that improvements to this initiative must be based on integrated programmes which link debt relief more closely to the objectives of sustainable development and the reduction of poverty .
despite these efforts by the european union , the current problem is not so much one of increasing debt cancellation , but of ensuring that the new , enhanced hipc initiative is effectively implemented by all donors .
parliament will be kept informed about these developments on a regular basis , and in particular about the progress of the decision to participate in the hipc initiative .
as to total debt cancellation , which some honourable members have also suggested , it is worth remembering that the experts in this field would come up with various arguments against this option .
this was launched in september 1996 with the aim of helping to relieve the debt burden of the poorest countries that make adjustment efforts in a concerted way .
in 1999 , on the occasion of the g7 cologne summit , ministers agreed to an expanded and more flexible initiative that will provide faster , deeper and broader debt relief .
for the record , the commission has already made a large contribution to hipc i .
the council adopted , on 6 july 1998 , a decision on the community ' s participation in the hipc initiative with regard to its claims , special loans and risk capital managed by the european investment bank for eligible acp countries .
we set aside eur 40 million of interest accumulated on edf funds which should cover the cost for the first six country cases .
community assistance for uganda and guyana was delivered in mid-1998 and early 2000 , amounting to eur 4.59 million and eur 6.44 million respectively .
the community has since decided to considerably enhance support for the hipc ii initiative .
the eur 680 million community contribution originating from the edf will be channelled to the hipc trust fund in 3 tranches taking into consideration effective financing needs as well as support from other donors .
according to the information available , needs for the first tranche this year will be in the order of the magnitude of eur 250 million .
besides these contributions to be financed from uncommitted edf funds , a eur 54 million contribution to the hipc trust fund will also be made towards non-acp hipcs drawing on resources from the budgetary lines for latin america and asia .
we want , in other words , to make sure that the eu participation in hipc is global and in accordance with the figures in hipc .
finally , it must be stressed that the acp / eu council decision to reinforce the ec structural adjustment facility by eur 250 million will partly be used to provide interim relief to eligible hipc countries belonging to the acp .
as regards other contributions to the hipc trust fund , it may be worth noting that the draft budget by the us administration suggests a us contribution of usd 600 million which follows on from pledges made earlier and which corresponds to the share of hipc calculated by the world bank for the us .
this draft budget needs to be passed in congress and this is definitely facing some difficulties .
the funds released by the commission for the hipc initiative are subject to the same principles as other funds originating from the european development fund and the commission is carefully involving the edf committee , that is member states , at all stages .
politically speaking , it would not make sense to stop edf financed projects in article 366 ( b ) countries and to provide them with ec quasi direct non-earmarked budget support , for example through hipc debt relief mechanisms .
it is the very purpose of article 366 ( b ) in its present form to make things more complicated for countries breaching elementary human rights and good governance principles .
the concept of the poverty reduction strategy papers was launched to provide a framework for mainstreaming poverty reduction in government and donor policies .
the commission has expressed its strong support for this radically new approach initiated by the world bank and the imf .
the commission attaches particular importance to an open participatory process involving civil society , parliaments and all relevant international institutions and donors .
the community is maintaining and stepping up its commitment to support macroeconomic reforms , social sectors , regional integration and sound economic management .
this is all needed in order to make sure that fighting poverty remains the central theme when we are actually improving the situation of these poor countries through the enhanced hipc initiative .
mr president , when one hears of the horrendous debt that has built up in many african states , the first reaction is one of deep sympathy .
i will be criticised by some honourable members for saying it , but conditionality must be built into not only development aid but also debt relief .
a long-term strategy is essential , and cancelling the debt is the starting point for such a strategy .
the resolution puts forward two major options : new sustainability criteria and greater flexibility for the more indebted countries , and the bilateral cancellation of the debts of the least developed acp countries .
our commitment to cancelling the debt is a precondition for the introduction of all the policies for reducing poverty .
the recent eu-acp agreements follow this rationale and provide assistance for the 31 least developed countries over a period of time which should end in 2005 .
in this context , it is essential to involve the private sector in order to boost trade exchange and , in addition to transferring resources , to create the necessary conditions for the growth of an internal market for developing countries , and provide incentives as well as laying down conditions .
this should be facilitated in a joint effort involving all creditors , the union , the states , especially the united states , international institutions and banks .
it is essential in this respect to tackle not just the social problems , but also to lay a firm foundation for sustainable economic development .
the imf and the world bank started an initiative back in 1996 to relieve the debts of the poorest countries .
we think this is a more serious solution to the problems of the third world than the outrageous recommendation which the un made on 4 january to the effect that , in order to offset its falling birth rate , europe should prepare to accept 159 million immigrants from african countries over the next 25 years .
the real solution is in africa in the form of a development policy which enables africans to live in their own countries , which raises the question of the alleged benefits of free trade .
we therefore welcome national and international initiatives to reduce debts with open arms .
however , i cannot refrain from making a number of critical remarks in respect of the proud announcements made by a number of g7 countries over the past few years .
these rich countries boast about the fact that they no longer make a fuss about the gigantic amounts which these poor countries owe them .
experiences with the hipc initiative dating back to 1996 , however , have shown that debt reduction has not always had an altogether positive effect on the development of the poor .
in the best-case scenarios , 100 % debt relief only yields an actual 40 % reduction in the debt .
the question we are left with today is : what will come of this ?
we have heard a few examples from the hipc-i and hipc-ii programmes and i understand that 1 billion is tied up in this second programme .
the total debt burden of all developing countries comes to 350 billion .
many of those countries pay 25 % to 40 % of their national budget on interest and repayment into banks in western europe , the united states and japan .
mr president , i have listened with interest to both the council and the commission .
the socialist group considers that the debt which blights the development of the world ' s poorest countries cannot be dealt with in isolation , as a purely financial problem , but it must be dealt with within the framework of a broad and coherent strategy which , through the eradication of poverty , leads to development .
to this end , firstly , the cancellation of debt must not involve the removal of other sources of finance , but cancellation must be one more measure in a coherent development policy .
secondly , the funds made available through the cancellation of debt must be used for human development funds , particularly for investment in health and education .
in order to be effective , in development terms , the cancellation of debt also requires , as we request in the resolution , a global strategy implemented in unison in and by the international financial institutions .
the european union , as a major contributor of development aid , must coordinate its action in this regard and make the elimination of poverty the common objective of its member states , one aspect of this being the cancellation of debt in the poorest countries .
the common foreign and security policy , which we too often treat as just a security policy , must address this issue as well as commercial and development policies .
by uniting the actions of debtors and creditors in a global strategy aimed at the elimination of poverty , it is possible that we will achieve objective 15 of the copenhagen summit on social development , which is an objective which we fully identify with .
we therefore strongly urge all member states and the commission to support the international financial institutions ' hipc initiative for highly indebted poor countries .
mr president , it is commendable that the international community is apparently serious about reducing debt .
it is also the case that we are still waiting for the world bank and the imf to come up with something similar to the european union .
all g7 countries have promised some form of 100 % debt cancellation , but many of them are very slow and disinclined to do it in the way that we would like .
on mozambique , for instance , it is very significant that the imf , the world bank and the paris club only postponed payments from mozambique and then actually lent more money .
of course , i agree with all my colleagues , the poorest countries who fulfil the criteria of delivering debt relief to those countries that show a commitment to social sector and human development support .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i think that it has become quite clear today that the situation referred to in the question is of great concern and has attracted the council ' s attention .
this is essentially an issue on which there is a degree of agreement , particularly within the european union .
the portuguese presidency of the european union has furthermore taken care to include this issue in its working programme and has ensured that it was a key part of the agenda of the cairo euro-african summit .
there are indeed problems of inequality and of the uneven distribution of wealth in these countries , but these problems must be overcome through political solutions .
what we must not forget is that there is a code of conduct for the internal management of resource allocation , and in particular for resources released for these countries as debt relief .
working towards good governance and working towards strengthening democratic structures and political participation are vital factors in creating free societies which provide for better management of internal resources and more appropriate management of wealth distribution and , in particular , which do not encourage corruption and the siphoning-off of funds .
it is our opinion that these issues are fundamentally linked to development .
as i said , the issue of debt is a symptom of a much more global issue , namely development .
in a way , one could say that we are witnessing a move from the washington consensus to the copenhagen consensus .
firstly , the cost of the hipc initiative would increase dramatically because the wealthier these countries are , or the less poor , the bigger the debt they have acquired .
the idea was never to cancel all debt from the third world countries because that was totally impracticable .
we are at a level of 0.22 % or 0.23 % for official development assistance , far from the 0.7 % target that in principle everybody has agreed to and which only a limited number of countries have actually reached .
the nice thing about it is that the acp countries accepted it , and this is a reallocation that moves money from the relatively better-off to the poorest countries in the acp group .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
situation in zimbabwe the next item is the statements by the commission and the council on the situation in zimbabwe .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the present pre-election campaign period in zimbabwe continues to be marked by a climate of intimidation towards the opposition and a lack of respect for the law and for citizens ' rights , sometimes with tragic consequences .
the situation has been growing worse despite considerable international efforts , particularly by the european union , to persuade president mugabe to order the so-called ' veterans ' to leave the farmers ' properties that they have invaded immediately , so as to guarantee the safety of all citizens , and in particular foreign nationals resident in zimbabwe .
as for the fundamental issue behind the current crisis - land - the european union has continued to state its willingness to help zimbabwe to implement a redistribution of farmland which is compatible with respect for property rights and , in particular , with the principles and conclusions of the donors conference on land reform and resettlement in zimbabwe , held in harare in 1998 .
with regard to the forthcoming parliamentary elections in zimbabwe , which have been set for 24 and 25 june , it is more vital than ever for them to be held in a free , fair and transparent way and within the deadline that has been set .
the troika of european union heads of mission in harare will personally convey this message to the zimbabwean authorities .
the commission representatives will travel there on friday 19 may to prepare for the mission of election observers in order to verify that the appropriate conditions have been met .
parliamentary elections have now been announced by the government for 24 and 25 june .
recent weeks have witnessed a series of international initiatives to facilitate the holding of free and fair elections .
the general affairs council of 10 april urged the government of zimbabwe to create the conditions to hold free and fair elections .
the commission continues to urge the government of zimbabwe to hold elections , free of intimidation .
i had a very direct conversation with president mugabe at the eu-africa summit .
the commission electoral assessment mission now in zimbabwe is discussing with member states arrangements to deal with the logistical and operational aspects of this exercise , in particular , funding , freedom of movement and security of service .
however , international observers could play an important role in deterring violence and building confidence , especially in the rural areas .
a preliminary eu proposal currently being developed would see the deployment of 150 observers , 100 of whom would be deployed in the first week of june to observe the electoral campaign and the rest to augment the eu ' s observation of the vote and the count .
consultations with the government , coordination with other international observer missions , such as the commonwealth , us and norway , and with local observation initiatives are on-going .
mr president , i suppose i can start on a note of slight optimism in that president mugabe has now named the days for the election as 24 and 25 june .
president mugabe should never forget the economic damage that will be done to zimbabwe ' s economy if land redistribution simply means the land goes back to subsistence farming in small blocks .
i am sorry that president mbeki , his successor , who is probably the most powerful leader in africa , has not in public condemned the violence in zimbabwe .
we in parliament are right to call on the commission to review its development cooperation with zimbabwe if transparent elections are not held or if the opposition wins and the violence continues .
the use of article 366 should be considered .
the world bank has now cut funding because of debt arrears and zimbabwe , as a country , is in liquidation .
i also welcome the fact that we will be supporting civil society ' s objectives in these next few weeks .
i very much hope , commissioner , that we will disseminate this kind of information in zimbabwe because those people trying to mount an opposition campaign will be heartened by the kind of information that we have had from you today and i think that would be important .
the commissioner did not mention this , but it would be sensible to do so because tv , radio and state-owned newspapers in zimbabwe are acting now as if they were the agents of zanu-pf .
i would really like to know what we can do from the european union to try to ensure that the opposition groups - and there are 26 parties standing in the election - have some access to the media .
state-controlled media , commissioner , is refusing to take paid advertising even from the main ngos who are just working to support the electoral process and democracy in zimbabwe , or from any opposition parties .
i even read in the british press that kabila and qadhafi are giving money now to mugabe ' s campaign , which is a bit frightening .
this is wrong because the role of these government civil servants in the last referendum was very dubious indeed .
finally , president , let us be sure that we work as a european union to create the conditions which will allow the people of zimbabwe to express their choices in this election in june and express their choices in secret and without fear .
according to the zimbabwean election monitors , the incessant violence renders free and fair elections impossible .
a situation whereby mr mugabe legitimises his position through violence and intimidation must be avoided at all costs .
cecil rhodes , one of britain 's most successful colonists , said the purpose of colonialism was : " to find new lands in which we can easily obtain raw materials and at the same time exploit the cheap labour that is available from the natives of the colonies " .
the legacy of this barbarically successful strategy can be seen in the chaos that is happening in zimbabwe today .
today , just 4 000 white farmers still own over 70 % of the arable land while more than seven million black zimbabweans scratch a living from overcrowded communal areas .
this makes president mugabe ' s refusal to proceed with the lawful land redistribution programme even more deplorable .
it is a fearsomely difficult problem when mugabe will not negotiate .
the british government must recognise the moral debt owed for crimes of slavery and colonialism and continue to do all in its power to support a peaceful and progressive settlement to the land issues in zimbabwe .
they have now been announced , but for 24 and 25 june .
we subsequently called upon the zimbabwean authorities to respect human rights , including minority rights , as well as international electoral law .
what we are witnessing is a country being held hostage , and we ourselves are finding it difficult to define a fair position given the dramatic nature of the situation , because the appeals for help that are reaching us from zimbabwe , from the mdc and from the democratic forces , say that it is a bad thing that the elections are being held , because they will probably be unfair , such is the scale of intimidation ; yet not holding them would be worse .
we have already been reminded here , and rightly so , of the atrocities committed in the past in matabeleland and ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , the story of zimbabwe is one of hope turning to despair - hope that in 1980 zimbabwe could have realised its full potential and become a leading country in africa ; despair now because the father of the nation has reduced his creation from being one of the richest and most educated of african countries to being one of the poorest .
today the country is suffering from 50 % unemployment and 60 % inflation ; he is spending usd 1 million a day on a foreign adventure in the congo ; the foreign exchange reserves have gone and the world bank has suspended funding on projects .
the country is one of the most educated in africa and the european union should be proud of its role in helping to set up that educational support structure in the past 20 years .
the opposition parties want more transparency .
on 24 june elections are going to be held .
yesterday , the commonwealth secretary-general said that it is still possible to have free elections .
the future of the country lies with the young people of zimbabwe .
if the commission were not to do this , the illegal dispossessions of land could spread to the rest of southern africa and this would be a disaster , not only for the area concerned , but also for the rest of africa .
threats can never create confidence and social harmony .
since independence in 1980 , sweden has provided a total of sek 2 billion in aid , corresponding to usd 220 million .
we believed in you , president mugabe , and in your country ' s future because you wanted to uphold the christian view of human beings in zimbabwe .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would just like to say a few words about the importance of this debate and , in particular , about the fact that it is quite appropriate that this house has once again expressed its concern about such a topical issue which has caused so much concern in the european union .
i hope we can solve the problems of funding of the observer mission .
i have to tell parliament that this once again demonstrates the inadequacy of our system .
this is the kind of system we have .
we are deciding on a eur 19 million grant for very targeted poverty alleviation in zimbabwe via a microproject scheme , part of which will be used to support resettlement of the poorest people on legally acquired land .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow , thursday , at 12 noon .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0220 / 2000 ) .
i would like to remind you that we are 20 minutes behind schedule .
question no 1 by ( h-0350 / 00 ) : subject : undesirable persons in turkey the turkish newspaper ' sabah ' has published a list of 56 persons considered undesirable in turkey .
the list includes numerous political representatives from several european union countries ( denmark , italy , greece , sweden and spain ) and also from non-member states , together with a large number of journalists , clergymen , members of humanitarian organisations etc .
this issue was specifically raised by the presidency at the association council meeting between the european union and turkey on 11 april 2000 .
the council will monitor all of these issues and will not fail , whenever necessary , to convey any information to this house which is relevant to progress with this accession strategy and , in particular , its views on turkey ' s compliance with requirements for the future opening of accession negotiations by the european union .
you will notice that the date on this question is 30 march 2000 , which was two weeks before the last part-session .
there seems to be some system whereby mr alavanos and his colleagues always get the first and second questions , and they always attack turkey .
mr purvis , i believe that we should not enter into any judgement of intentions .
what i can tell you is that it is not the greek communist party but synaspismos .
however , we shall continue with our agenda .
i will take good note of your question .
question no 2 by ( h-0361 / 00 ) : subject : dispute between armenia and turkey on 11 december 1999 the council accepted turkey ' s application for accession to the european union .
paragraph 3 of parliament ' s resolution of 18 june 1987 ' calls on the council to obtain from the present turkish government an acknowledgement of the genocide perpetrated against the armenians in 1915-1917 and to promote the establishment of a dialogue between turkey and the representatives of the armenians ' .
the objective of european union policy in this area has obviously been to promote stability in the caucasus , both between countries in the region , specifically in relation to nagorno-karabakh , and between the countries themselves and their neighbours .
in view of this , it is worth pointing out that cooperation between the european union and armenia is part of the acquis communautaire which turkey will have to adopt if the negotiating process begins .
we do not , however , know today what measures have been taken by successive councils in order to attempt to establish relations between both these countries , given that today turkey is still imposing an economic blockade on armenia .
my question is therefore as follows : in the context of negotiations with a view to turkey ' s accession to the european union , has the issue of this blockade been raised , and could lifting this blockade be counted a precondition to turkey ' s accession ?
the honourable member has asked two questions .
with regard to relations between armenia and turkey , which we hope will be positive in future , all that the european union has done is to try to ensure that turkey complies with the european union ' s normal framework of external relations .
this has , until now , been a purely bilateral issue and the european union cannot , therefore , intervene in it .
mr president , in reply to this question , i think that in terms of day-to-day relations between the council and the european parliament , it would be useful if we could make full use of the facilities that the transparency process for council information provides for all citizens , including members of the european parliament .
mr president , i wish to begin by saying how delighted i am that the presidency is prepared to put some pressure on the governments which , in turn , i hope will put pressure on their parliaments to proceed with ratification .
it is quite shaming that after well over six months there are eight member states still to ratify .
commissioner patten is determined to reinvigorate the whole barcelona process and the european-mediterranean relationship .
specifically , with regard to the agreement with jordan , even though we acknowledge and regret the fact that the agreement is not yet in force , previous experience has shown that these agreements take around three years to be ratified .
as the author is not present , question no 4 lapses .
as you will be aware , when the council ' s mandate for the seattle summit was being prepared , many member states were particularly careful to stress cultural aspects and , above all , the european union ' s need to adopt a very firm position in these negotiations on protecting the specific nature of culture .
i would therefore remind you that in the conclusions of the council meeting on 26 october on the preparation of the seattle ministerial conference , the idea was expressed that during the forthcoming wto negotiations , the union would try to ensure , as it did in the uruguay round , that the member states which comprise the community would be able to preserve their cultural diversity by maintaining their own cultural and audiovisual policies .
honourable members will be as aware as i am of the fate that befell the launch of the new round of wto negotiations in seattle , which has , of course , led to delays in addressing issues of this kind .
nevertheless , it is worth noting that within the specific framework of the gatt agreement , that is , of the general agreement on trade in services , it was specified that negotiations on the so-called built-in agenda would have to begin on 1 january 2000 .
i wish to thank the president-in-office for his response .
the reason for asking the question is that we have in our own ideologies many different models at a european union level which are unique to the european union as a whole : many times we speak of the european model of agriculture or the european social model , and so on .
in particular , with regard to things like audiovisual , we had a discussion today in parliament on the randzio-plath report on transparency and financial dealings between undertakings and state aid .
that is constantly undermining what is unique not only about europe as a continent but also about the individual member states .
i hope that you and your colleagues will be vigilant in ensuring that we have the opportunity to maintain that diversity , as it adds to what essentially the core of europe is all about .
as the authors are not present , question nos 6 and 7 lapse .
turning to the question about financing our policy in kosovo through the agricultural budget , i must make it absolutely clear that the united nations mission in kosovo cannot possibly be financed from agricultural budget headings , since there is no appropriate legal basis for this .
the current financial regulations do not allow for appropriations to be transferred between two headings in the financial perspectives .
this does not necessarily mean that there is no intention , as specifically announced by the commission , to propose an amendment to the 2000-2006 financial perspectives which , in the commission ' s view , would not fundamentally affect cap appropriations .
we know that in this house , too , a majority is against a review of the financial perspectives which would lead to a reduction in the amount available for the common agricultural policy .
but as i have said , the council ' s position on this issue is , in political terms , to oppose a review of the financial perspectives .
the council feels that it is only on the basis of this kind of information that an accurate assessment of the commission ' s proposals can be made .
although i am in favour of aid to kosovo , i am not in favour - in fact i consider it an outrage - of taking money intended for agriculture , approved under agenda 2000 - since if we do this it shows that it has been nothing but a smokescreen - and dedicating it to foreign policy .
my question is as follows : what do we do when the council says something diametrically opposed to what the commission says ?
first he assures us that no part of the cap budget will be used for kosovo or for exercising the european union ' s foreign policy and then he says that , in any case , the commission has said - and rightly so - that any sums not taken up will be shared out .
apart from our opposition to the entire policy being exercised by the european union in kosovo , the issue at stake is this : we want a commitment from the council that not one single euro from the agricultural budget will be channelled elsewhere .
i would also like to say that , with regard to the commission ' s proposal , i stated quite clearly that currently there is not a universally positive attitude to changing the 2000-2006 financial perspectives in the council .
it is , however , also obvious that the berlin european council conclusions are relevant here , as they show that the financial perspectives for the period 2000-2006 provide for a mid-term review , specifically with regard to the common agricultural policy .
as the author is not present , question no 9 lapses .
question no 10 by ( h-0381 / 00 ) : subject : financial assistance to european-level parties replying to my oral question h-0268 / 00 in parliament on 12 april 2000 , the commission took the view that : ' the present article 191 of the treaty establishing the ec does not constitute a legal basis for funding european political parties .
the commission therefore considers that in the interests of legal certainty it would be best to incorporate an appropriate legal basis for such expenditure in the treaty establishing the ec .
mr president , as the honourable member ' s question states , it is true that article 191 of the treaty does not constitute a legal basis for the funding of european political parties .
i myself , as chair of the preparatory group , intend to have this issue put on the igc agenda once again by the end of the portuguese presidency .
in any event , i think that , at the moment , as there is no legal basis , all we can do is try to discover , through the various member states participating in the igc , whether or not there is a will to work towards funding for european political parties .
the report on parliament ' s financial administration , in which all political groups were criticised for having channelled parliamentary appropriations into european political parties also , did not take into account the fact , for example , that the office of the party of european socialists is situated within the european parliament buildings , whereas my own group , the ppe , received a great deal of criticism despite the fact that our party office is situated away from the european parliament ' s services .
the question concerns the legal basis and the intergovernmental conference .
as the author is not present , question no 11 lapses .
i think that this situation is scandalous in every sense of the word from an international and political point of view and i wonder how you tolerate it .
mr president , i wish to thank mr gallagher for his question , particularly as it gives me a further opportunity to provide the house with information about the work resulting from the adoption by the special european council in lisbon of a set of measures to improve the fight against unemployment and to encourage economic reform and innovation .
we feel that the european charter on small- and medium-sized enterprises due to be approved this june is an extremely important instrument for guaranteeing improvements in the fight against unemployment , in increasing social cohesion and also in improving the foundations on which the new knowledge society is based , by making instruments for innovation more democratic .
i am also pleased that the president-in-office has recognised that the engine of growth in the economy are the smes providing 70 % of the jobs .
therefore , it is blindingly obvious that smes will play an important role if we are to resolve the very high unemployment problems that we have generally in the union and specifically in various regions of the union .
nevertheless , in line with the understanding that there has been about addressing this issue on the part of both the commission and the council - and this issue will , for example , be considered by the industry council tomorrow - we acknowledge the very specific nature of the fisheries sector and we share your concern about the importance of small- and medium-sized enterprises operating in this sector .
the charter is designed to create a universal regulatory framework for small- and medium-sized enterprises as defined at european level , and also to establish stages for implementing these measures .
can the president-in-office tell us if this charter will envisage new community instruments being created to help small- and medium-sized enterprises .
i recognise that small- and medium-sized enterprises probably lost patience a long time ago with the lack of concrete measures aimed specifically at them .
in fact , the draft version of this charter will be considered by the industry council tomorrow and the charter will be published in three weeks .
as they deal with the same subject , question nos 15 and 16 will be taken together .
question no 15 by ( h-0391 / 00 ) : subject : specific directive to combat discrimination against the disabled pursuant to article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam , which provides for action to combat discrimination , the commission has recently presented a package of measures which include three directives .
question no 16 by ( h-0396 / 00 ) : subject : combating discrimination at the start of the twenty-first century , which signals a new departure by european society in the direction of greater democracy , cohesion and recognition of the contributions of all citizens , the unacceptable phenomena of racism and social exclusion can be observed .
the commission ' s three proposals enshrine different approaches to combating discrimination .
the first proposal prohibits discrimination in the field of employment based on racial or ethnic origin , religion or beliefs , disability , age or sexual orientation .
furthermore , the fight against discrimination on the grounds of disability is covered by the first proposal for a directive , which seeks to implement the principle of equal treatment in the field of employment and in carrying out professional activities .
it is true that article 13 covers practically all possible - at the moment at least - forms of discrimination .
the president-in-office of the council has mentioned three examples and i would like to refer to them specifically .
there are certain cases in article 13 which are susceptible to discrimination , such as the one we are dealing with today , the case of disabled people , which i believe have been implemented in an irregular way .
it is true that there are others which are still much less developed , such as discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation .
however , returning to disability , i believe that the european union requires more complete legislation which covers every possible type , including cases of double disability .
regardless of your real reason for asking a question of this nature , we must recognise that , in recent years , and particularly since the treaty of amsterdam , very specific measures have been adopted in the european union to ensure that these issues are addressed in a far more appropriate way , taking into consideration the interests of the various parts of society that are affected .
i should like to remind the house that the european council in lisbon highlighted the promotion of social inclusion and called on the commission , and the council , to take priority actions for specific target groups .
one of these groups is the disabled .
i feel that it is extremely important today for all forms of discrimination to be addressed and monitored at political level , either by establishing a specific monitoring centre or by using existing mechanisms , which are more appropriate for monitoring and managing the experience of individual countries .
as the author is not present , question no 17 lapses .
mr president , the european union has been closely following the situation in myanmar for several years .
more recently , at its meeting in april , the council adopted three additional sanctions against the burmese regime .
to this end , the european union plans to send a second eu troika mission to rangoon .
i am , of course , very happy that the new common position has been established by the council and that it has strengthened the position as compared with the past .
i have to say to the president-in-office that the net impact of the various measures the european union has imposed since 1996 has been very limited : the burmese have not entered into dialogue with aung san suu kyi and the democratic forces in burma remain as outside the whole process as ever .
if the us decides in favour of massachusetts , will the european union then reintroduce our opposition in the world trade organisation to these measures taken in massachusetts ?
i would remind you that in this area , my country spent years , sometimes in relative isolation from the rest of the community , trying to draw attention to the situation in indonesia , and the success of that pressure was only measurable against the internal reaction and above all against action by the people of east timor .
i would also like to say - and this is an important point that also concerns the overall framework of relations between the european union and countries in south-east asia , and acts as an element of cumulative pressure - that relations between the european union and asean have , since 1998 , been through a rather strained period , precisely because of the problems resulting from burma ' s membership of that organisation .
because of the common position on burma , it was impossible to invite the burmese delegation to the eu-asean ministerial meeting in berlin , which led to that meeting being cancelled .
as the author is not present , question no 19 lapses .
by that i mean that euro 11 is an informal setting , and ecofin is the formal setting .
in the debate in those countries which are not participating in the third phase of emu and which are not therefore becoming a part of the euro zone , the point has been made that ministers from these countries are losing influence , not only on issues directly affecting the euro , but also on other issues dealt with by ecofin .
in any event , i must tell you that until then , nothing within the european union prevents countries meeting in smaller groups than in the normal community context .
we are all aware , from newspapers or from conversations in corridors , that various countries in europe , particularly the nordic countries , regularly coordinate their positions in a framework that predates the community decision-making process .
this is purely and simply a coordination of joint positions , and it is perfectly natural that countries that joined the third phase of economic and monetary union and which are members of the single currency should need to find specific measures to express their action and that they should collectively bring these issues to ecofin .
i do not think , however , that the position of the other countries is any more restricted in ecofin than it was at the beginning .
this does not mean that the countries that are not members of euro 11 , but which are , of course , members of ecofin , cannot raise that issue under the ecofin council agenda .
i must say one more very simple thing , mrs sandbk .
thank you very much , mr seixas da costa .
since the time allocated to questions to the council has elapsed , questions nos 21 to 31 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , deregulation in the telecommunications sector has continued for a decade and it has been a great success .
in the past , people acquired a telephone in order to keep in touch with each other , but now they have become shareholders in a company , which could , for example , be acting as an intermediary in sexual services .
parliament notes that due to the variations in its implementations , the current regime has led to legal uncertainty in different member states .
the objective is to prevent social discrimination and to increase consumer confidence and social cohesion .
the constant increase in the demand for radio frequencies for new applications is such that we need to review the principles on which they are distributed and the policy which the european union needs to apply in this sector .
the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy , having expressed its satisfaction with the work of the european commission , has come to a number of conclusions and has formulated a number of principles .
in this respect , the committee on industry considers that spectrum policy cannot be solely market-driven , that the economic and social value of the radio spectrum should not be assessed on the basis of profit opportunity and that we need a balanced combination of commercial and social interests .
your rapporteur is in favour of an overall payment for each commercial service which uses the spectrum .
i therefore call upon the house to vote in favour of amendments nos 4 , 12 , 5 and 6 , so that our final resolution includes a clear position against auctions .
i want to focus on some of the key points highlighted in the report .
the first and most encouraging thing from our point of view is that we now see the wisdom of opening the telecommunications market .
there is a tremendous amount of detailed analysis in this report and it clearly shows the consumer benefits in price reductions , choice and increased services that have flowed from deregulation .
we welcome this report , which is really going to encourage market-opening to the benefit of consumers and the european economy .
this communication and the report on the communication are amongst parliament ' s reports on the telecommunications sector , and they are all very closely linked .
mr president , commissioner , previous speakers have mentioned the broad consensus that exists concerning the profits arising from the liberalisation of the telecommunications sector .
we are therefore still making quite large strides in this area .
mr president , commissioner , twenty years have passed since the philosopher and essayist , alvin toffler , identified the new information technologies as the third of humanity ' s great revolutions .
nevertheless , in europe , we once again failed to take much notice of our thinkers and , in the meantime , over the last decade , the united states has increased its gdp and income per capita to above european union levels , where , in the last year , these indicators represented barely 75 % of us levels .
we are now rapidly turning to the information society , information technology , the internet , the galileo network for monitoring and intercommunication by satellite , the liberalisation and convergence of telecommunications and technological advances in general .
furthermore , we ask that , as soon as possible , flat rates be established for access to the internet , to the network of networks , and we even argue that they should be free , since they should be offered , like health and education , as an essential public service to the citizens .
the results of the auctions in third generation mobile phone frequencies , the ' umts ' frequencies , that are currently taking place in several member states , demonstrate just how important frequencies are , particularly as far as the economy is concerned .
in addition , the operators are unable to offer their customers inexpensive mobile access to the internet .
what is more , some practices in the member states - either auctions or ' beauty contests ' that is - in respect of these billions , lead to distortion of competition in the internal market .
i have the following brief comments to make on the report itself : in my view , three priorities for revising radio spectrum policy have crystallised from the debate , which we also had in the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy .
secondly , the community must be allowed to express itself during negotiations within the cept , the european conference of postal and telecommunications administrations that is , in such a way that better account is taken of community interests where radio spectrum policy is concerned .
rapporteur , ladies and gentlemen , in 1993 the european union undertook to open up the telecommunications market .
since then , this decision has led to the adoption of a series of directives , and we have constantly been reminded that there is a political objective underlying these regulations , namely growth , employment , competitiveness and the provision of access to the information society for all citizens , with the necessary legal protection .
it is therefore imperative that we do not lose sight of the objective of providing a high-quality service for all citizens if we want to avoid creating a fresh division within our society .
moreover , today we are debating reducing the cost of internet access within the framework of local loop competition .
as the commission has stated , there has been a lot of progress in the past few years in the eu telecommunications sector , but there is still a lot to be learnt where the mobile phone market is concerned .
in future , it is incumbent on the commission to ensure more vigorously than ever that the ' roaming ' fees charged to users by operators are brought down in all eu countries to a sensible level based on actual costs .
mr president , commissioner liikanen , cher ami paasilinna , i am delighted to be discussing the important issue of the pleasure of auctions versus the frustration of taxation .
the commission will also use its powers in regard to competition to monitor carefully dominant positions .
we already have a policy of pushing for divestment of cable tv networks to ensure greater local competition and to stimulate investments and services , as parliament is calling for in these reports .
in addition , political support is required to facilitate the achievement of community objectives at international level .
we have the on-going radio conference in istanbul where issues like galileo or third generation spectrum will be discussed .
the competitiveness of european industry at global level must be developed in the interest of the european citizen .
at the same time , the commission would like to stress that it is urgent and not premature to have an appropriate framework at the community level to implement the spectrum policy options agreed in the spectrum policy group and to ensure that results of harmonisation mandates are implemented in the union .
as far as further actions are concerned , the commission will present by the end of june - after parliament ' s discussions and the votes on the radio reports - the appropriate framework for radio spectrum policy in the ec .
this will also take into account the results of the overall discussion which is now taking place in the 1999 review .
in those areas the commission will make proposals in the context of the new legislation on electronic communications which will be presented at the end of june .
at the same time , the commission also intends defining this balance between the markets and public policy in the context of the europe action plan , which should be presented next week .
thank you very much , commissioner liikanen .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
finally , space has always had a strategic importance , since whoever controls space also controls the earth .
space is the one sector in which international cooperation is particularly important .
in europe , the european space agency ( esa ) , an independent body comprising 14 european countries , 12 of which are members of the european union , has played a critical role in fostering cooperation in space exploration , space applications and the development of research in space .
the main political issue in the entire discussion concerned the development of a coherent approach to space and the promotion of collaboration between the european union and the esa on the basis of specific targets and within a clear framework .
the commission ' s working document being examined today comes as a response to the council ' s resolution of 22 june 1998 calling on the commission to take practical measures to promote cooperation between the european union and the esa .
from this point of view , the document is somewhat limited in scope , since an overall policy for space cannot restrict itself merely to practical applications .
it stresses the importance of international cooperation , the need for all member states to participate in space activities and the importance of collaboration with third countries , and points out that the esa has functioned efficiently and has played a leading role in space research and space applications in both europe and worldwide .
it is in favour of the further development of launching systems , the development of new telecommunications systems and further european participation in the alpha station programme and reiterates the european parliament ' s support for the development of the global satellite navigation system known as galileo .
it calls on the commission , in collaboration with the member states , to take all measures needed for effective use of space-based systems for monitoring the environment and for security , in order to protect citizens ' lives and natural resources , identify at an early stage , or even avert natural or man-made disasters and help combat fraud .
mr alyssandrakis , ladies and gentlemen , everyone is in favour of mankind ' s direct or indirect access to space for , in the first place , it is a dream , a fantastic adventure and a way of expanding our knowledge .
today , although the united states and russia still dominate this sector , the countries of europe play a major and increasingly significant role .
the european space agency has played a role which has been crucial for the cooperation between european countries in the field of the exploitation of space and research development .
we must also make up for the absence of a genuine european policy and a european strategy ensuring the effective use of space systems to monitor the environment and to provide security , protect natural resources , detect or forecast natural and man-made disasters and combat fraud .
a large chunk of the practical applications involving space is already controlled by the market , and i feel that this is dangerous .
the commission must put forward measures to control what are genuine abuses .
to sum up , the new approach to space policy must be based on a close partnership between the member states , the european union and the european space agency .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , commissioners , the european market for space applications is fragmented .
cooperation at community and international level in space activities is imperative .
my second point concerns the position of the european satellite industry .
if the european union does not want to miss the boat , the commission and member states need to promote the development of the industry .
satellite systems are the means to further develop information and communications technology .
my group is waiting with bated breath for the document the commission has promised on a european space satellite in which , needless to say , the input of the european space agency is vital .
thank you , mrs plooij-van gorsel .
as has already been said , there is no longer any competition between america and the soviet bloc , and yet , for all its scientists and technical expertise , europe is unable to launch itself into space and space research .
well , in the united states , a famous pensioner , the astronaut john glenn , went into space at the age of 69 .
i am already a politician : i could become an astronaut , the first pensioner astronaut of the european union .
on behalf of the commission , i can assure you that we welcome this parliamentary resolution , in that it stresses the importance of politically consolidating the commission ' s analysis regarding , amongst other things , the strategic and economic role of space and the need to reinforce european investments and the status of the european space industry and to develop new approaches to space policy .
as you are aware , on 2 december , the council of ministers for research adopted a resolution calling upon the commission to draw up a european space strategy together with the european space agency .
this strategy will have to be submitted to the council for evaluation before the end of the year .
the drawing up of a european space strategy is of universal relevance and it must serve as a basis for the decisions scheduled for the end of 2000 on the galileo programme , more explicitly , and for the debate already underway on security and the environment , which should lead to initiatives whose importance is noted in the motion for a parliamentary resolution .
i feel that the dialogue which we have embarked upon with the european space agency is fully in line with a wider-ranging communication which we are shortly to discuss in connection with another report , the dynamic of a european research area .
thank you very much , commissioner busquin .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
if the european union wants to invest in more competitiveness , and thus more employment , we will need an approach which is broader and more innovative than the one we have pursued so far .
only 10 % is spent on new innovative research .
injecting expertise into a product , seems to be much more successful in the united states than it is in europe .
a better link is required between the development of new technology and application in the market .
commissioner busquin has now indicated how a european research area could be brought about .
but i believe that in order to bring about a european research area , we will need more than measures in the sphere of infrastructure .
my final point concerns the lack of a community patent .
a patent application in europe is ten times more expensive than it is in the us and far more involved .
we need due and proper attention to mobility and all that goes with it , proper research careers throughout europe , the chance for people to gain employment in research and to move freely .
we have seen , in the case of the foreign language lecturers in italy , that 12 years have passed with immobility enshrined in european law because the right to free movement without regard to nationality has been denied and has not yet been effectively enforced by the commission .
all that is stated in paragraph 40 of the report .
clearly , the thrust of the commission ' s thinking that has gone into this report and indeed our response has focused on two aspects : competitiveness and coordination , because research capability combined with the ability to translate that research into products and services of real commercial value is going to be the key to the competitiveness of the european union and the enlarged union into this new century .
that , i think , is a factor of very great importance in trying to achieve this focus and this synthesis of ideas .
we occasionally have two-year periods which are sometimes called rest periods or reflection periods , whereas , in actual fact , you are not allowing us to relax , and rightly so , presenting us with a very timely communication on the european research and development area .
i would say that this contribution is all the more welcome in that it fertilises fallow land , namely the field of cooperation between the european community and the member states in the area of research .
this cooperation , which we could already describe as consolidated and which is laid down by articles 165 , 168 and 169 of the treaty has , up until now , only existed in theory .
i know that you already have the support of the european scientific community and that is extremely important .
now we must convert the test into proposals , but also into more radical changes .
mr president , commissioner , the communication under discussion forms an important introduction to closer cooperation in the field of research .
the statistics indicated in the communication regarding the poor level of investment by eu countries in research are cause for concern .
however , some member states have made considerable investments in research , and this appears to have paid dividends , particularly in the area of information technology .
the participation of women in scientific research within the eu continues to be too fragmented .
mr president , it is , of course , essential to develop a european research area , but this must not operate simply in areas neglected by the member states .
both fundamental and applied research must , above all , retain public support and a public dimension .
europe may be a significant driving force in this field .
there is here a potential which can only be realised fully at european level , in collaboration with universities , centres of excellence and the authorities .
in conclusion , i wish to thank our commissioner , mr philippe busquin , for undertaking , as soon as he arrived , this investigation into a european research area which we support .
he did not neglect the areas of schemes on behalf of young people and the participation of women in research and , in continuing liaison with the member states and with parliament , he is working towards developing a knowledge-based europe in the latest fields , without neglecting social and human aspects .
mr president , commissioner , considerable research is indeed essential to be able to make sense of the 27 recitals and 60 paragraphs of a report which has reached oversized proportions due to the studies of the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy and which contains absolutely everything , albeit in occasionally vague and often inexact terms .
let us begin , however , in a spirit of constructive criticism , by welcoming the fact that this contribution towards achieving better integration of the european scientific community seeks to safeguard the balance between fundamental and applied research in order to combat the brain drain , to prioritise the problem of unemployment among young researchers within a european policy which is aware of the reality of the situation , and to recognise the leading role played by businesses in research and development .
mrs plooij-van gorsel , the union for a europe of nations group is going to vote in favour of your report , but i would ask you , in practical terms , will it be effective enough for us to achieve our shared goal , which is high-level scientific knowledge generating improved performance in every field ?
the twenty-first century will be the century of knowledge and grey matter .
progress in communications effectively increases the rate of dissemination of knowledge , as the development of the internet demonstrates , and is a powerful factor in promoting economic growth .
the first is that european investment in research is at least as important as the european research area .
in the united states , there is rather less concern for semantics and more for practical action .
the second observation is that approximately two thirds of research is undertaken by private companies and that the european union must take this situation into consideration when focusing its resources .
this is all included in the commission communication and the report by our fellow member .
i thank the commissioner , whose timing is very good and so is his idea of launching this debate .
there is indeed a growing feeling of unease at the lack of coordination in european science and research .
frankly , the eu is not punching its weight in research , although some member states are very good .
i strongly support paragraphs 16 and 17 , which call for informing the european public about scientific achievements and looking at ethical questions .
i would like to congratulate the commissioner on his ambition , which is considerable .
and really , the absence of this is something we only have ourselves to blame for .
mr president , a competition-orientated research policy of the kind that we are pursuing today is the best type of social and employment policy of tomorrow .
i believe we should make sure that we impart this entrepreneurial spirit , the pleasure derived from innovation and research , to young people .
i believe that each individual has a great deal of knowledge to contribute , and that , ultimately , communication between specialists is the best method of conveying this knowledge .
we have said that at least 10 % of research expenditure must be for the benefit of small- and medium-sized enterprises .
i would therefore recommend involving the parliamentarians and ministers for research of these countries in the preparation for the sixth research framework programme as well .
the creation of a common research area in europe will , at last , make it possible to fully exploit networks of high quality centres and achieve that critical mass which is essential both for the progress of knowledge per se and to provide practical answers to the man in the street : answers which cover a range of issues , from the control of terrible illnesses such as aids or cancer to neurodegenerative diseases or injuries caused by environmental pollution and so forth .
the third amendment , which was also approved by our friend mr novelli - whom i would like to thank - will apply tax exemption and , thereby , at last make it possible to further increase the level of research carried out in all sectors .
we have to ascertain that not all research leads to more economic growth or more employment .
where research in support of policy is concerned , initiatives from the commission are therefore vital in order to prevent work from being duplicated , to avoid fragmentation and to ensure that the best measuring methods and the best techniques become the benchmark .
but in this type of work , no major spin-offs in the employment sphere can be expected outside the research centres .
research situated between applied and basic research now has a lower profile but remains significant .
most of the added value of the internal market approach in research will be acquired specifically through the more even distribution of the research and know-how which is funded by non-public resources .
increasing , for instance , the mobility of researchers according to need and enhancing the cooperation between the scientific communities of the eu and eastern europe will create a reliable and credible basis for research projects .
the eu must accept that one of the most important challenges for its training and research policy is to awaken women ' s interest in this sector .
mr president , mrs plooij-van gorsel , ladies and gentlemen , i am personally delighted to have this opportunity to express an opinion on the commissioner ' s communication and to be able to tell him that it is a document of extremely high quality which , as we have seen again this evening , has provided the basis for a relevant debate on revitalising research in europe .
in europe , however , as many people have said , the position of research looks worrying if one looks at the figures .
it is therefore necessary , as a matter of urgency , to adopt an overall strategy at european level in order to make up for lost time .
it must be noted , however , that new initiatives need to be adopted in order to decompartmentalise member states ' national systems which today represent nothing more than a duplication of efforts .
among the many measures which must be implemented , this evening i shall mention , in particular , the training and the mobility of researchers , to go back to a previous debate which involved the commissioner and researchers from my own region .
i therefore hope that , in june , our ministers will be able to approve the rapid establishment of a whole series of building sites in europe , on the basis of the commissioner ' s proposals .
in this respect i would like to offer some constructive criticism .
in europe there are no training programmes for researchers .
we must support the universities and researchers because , in europe , working in research means sacrifices and a career full of risks and very few rewards and , of course , no economic reward .
the first concerns the close relationship between research , economic growth and employment .
i subscribe to the view that we need to propose tax relief , harmonised at european level , as a guideline for the member states .
we should realise the extent to which the meeting of the heads of state and government in lisbon served to highlight - what i believe is very important - the key role of research policy , as we have again pointed out this evening , and to acknowledge the importance of this role in the advent of a knowledge-based economy and society .
we are at a juncture which gives us hope that greater and more crucial progress may be made in this area .
such excellence does exist in europe , in all the member states , but at an inadequate level of critical mass , and this is a situation which could be improved .
everyone accepts this , both the world of industry and the world of research , of course , in the same way as they accept multidisciplinarity , which is one of the results of scientific developments .
in order to create the necessary dynamic , it is therefore essential to develop the concept of benchmarking .
indeed , i should like to take this opportunity to thank parliament for having , with a view to the intergovernmental conference , insisted on initiating a discussion on a european legal body , since this is an essential condition for bringing about this community patent .
the joint research centre and its specialist role have been stressed , and the goal of 3 % of gdp is , i believe , an ambitious but necessary goal in all member states .
the first stage is clear .
the next stage , then , is the council of ministers responsible for research , which will take place on 15 june .
i think that the member states accept this methodology , with the establishment of a high level group of representatives .
initial results will be available by the end of the year .
the mobility of researchers presupposes the mobility of workers in general .
you are familiar with the very interesting report that this group produced , which triggered policy in each of the member states .
i hope that , together , we shall be able to open up the european research area that i believe in so strongly .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
europe has done this in the past and we must be able to continue to do this .
but before i talk about this pioneering role , i would like to say a few words about the assessment itself .
i am therefore delighted that you announced in the discussion on the fifth action programme that you would like to set up a kind of observatory where an effort will be made to collate all possible gender-related data .
firstly , if we grant development aid or if we have contacts with third countries , we should not just prescribe conditions with regard to the economic position of women .
i would emphasise that the cooperation between the two co-rapporteurs has been highly constructive and we have focused on the measures taken by the eu and its member states in this report .
i also see this report as an action plan for the eu delegation that is to take up an excellent negotiating position in new york , in june , and that is to strengthen women ' s rights , in close cooperation with the representatives of governmental and non-governmental organisations .
the treaty of amsterdam will help us there ; specifically articles 2 and 3 , in which equality is defined as a goal and task of the community , or article 141 , relating as it does to employment policy , where there is room for improvement .
the treaty must include a single , coherent legal basis for equality between men and women in all policy areas , and another directive on the implementation of the positive action measures in article 141 .
if the empowerment of women proves to play a major part in the fourth world conference on women , it will also take precedence where the development of the information society is concerned .
the social changes of recent years have affected women in a special way .
the increase in the elderly population has had a great effect on the lives of women who , in general , when they are no longer looking after their children , have to look after their parents .
despite considerable progress in terms of the situation of women , there are still considerable differences , especially discrimination at work and different wages for the same job .
the situation of women with family responsibilities , combined with the difficulties in the labour market , have led to a term which is explicit as well as unfair : the feminisation of poverty .
the information society requires increasing numbers of people with technological training , which women must get involved in , since this is an area for which they are particularly well-equipped .
if the number of women involved in decision making were to increase , it would become easier to resolve the problems facing them .
a lot of progress has been made , but there are still political and economic areas in which women are under-represented .
the treaty of amsterdam provides for the integration of the objectives of equality into community policies and , especially in article 141 , positive actions in the field of employment .
employment is usually also a solution to other problems of marginalisation , economic dependence , lack of personal freedom , etc .
first of all , the world ' s governments must adopt a concrete action plan and again undertake to fulfil the beijing objectives .
these three tools have so far been missing in implementing the beijing action platform .
mr president , we are going to new york first and foremost to discuss the position of women globally .
naturally , there is a need in the european union , too , to improve the position of women in all walks of life , but we are now talking more about a worldwide conference .
as all those present are well aware , this is not easy - we have a tremendous amount of work to do in this respect ourselves - but we can raise the issue that the role of women needs to be reassessed when it comes to questions of war and peace , for example .
we cannot accept what is happening to women in afghanistan and we must promote the human rights of women at the new york conference .
the 1995 action platform expressly mentions the freedom to take personal responsibility in questions affecting sexuality , as well as full respect for the individual ' s integrity and equality in relations between women and men and in issues affecting sexual relations and reproduction .
they are thereby sabotaging constructive dialogue between governments and voluntary organisations .
i would also urge the governments of the member states and the delegation from the european parliament which is to go to new york in a few weeks ' time to do all they can to bring about the final document from the beijing + 5 conference which is , in fact , threatened by these groups .
in our opinion , on this occasion , it might be appropriate for the union to adopt an initiative , a practical initiative which is a priority objective with set time frames .
this does not , of course , mean that we underestimate the progress achieved and the european union ' s contribution to the dynamic presence of women in all professional and scientific circles , the performance of women at all levels of education and their successes wherever equal opportunity policies and the principle of meritocracy are applied .
however , despite the undisputed progress being made , serious problems of inequality and discrimination persist and have serious repercussions on the functioning of democracy and the failure to make full use of the valuable human resource which women represent comes at a huge economic and social cost .
today we need to extend our action to eradicate discrimination on the labour market , involve women in social dialogue and deal with violence against women .
in short , we need to create a new institutional and social framework which reflects the changes which have taken place and which solves the problems and contradictions which arise from the new contract with the two sexes .
apart from the 28 specific recommendations , which are particularly helpful , both for beijing and the commission ' s fifth programme - and i should like to assure you that complete account will be taken of them - i must also highlight the fact that they are accompanied by a particularly interesting political analysis containing information and views which is an excellent tool and which i think the member states would be well advised to reproduce .
and , of course , afghanistan will have to be discussed and reported and voted on in new york because it is one of the worst disgraces of our century , one of the worst disgraces of mankind in the year 2000 .
we made commitments in 1995 ; these commitments have been honoured up to a point and we shall be analysing them in full at the beijing conference .
as far as the report is concerned , i should like to refer to three points which , according to the questionnaires sent in from the countries of europe , take priority there .
the second point concerns democracy and is linked to the information society , which is creating a new type of communication between citizens and politicians and opening up a new route , which you need to be aware of and for which you need the right vehicle .
these are issues which call , of course , for innovative solutions and new approaches and cannot simply be seen as the price paid for the new era .
how we organise ourselves at all levels and how our lobby operates at all levels are extremely important , because we want to prevent any review of the agenda or a return to the past , renew our commitments and create new momentum so that our commitments are implemented in the new era .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
just ten years ago , on 8 april 1990 , the first free , democratic elections were held in slovenia , a high point in the slovene spring .
and a free and democratic slovenia was born .
this event at the same time marked a return to the shared european values of peace and freedom , democracy and respect for human rights .
on 10 june 1996 , your country submitted its formal application for membership of the european union .
we are aware that over the last ten years , in your capacity as president of slovenia , you have played a key role in achieving positive development in your country .
my own firm conviction is that it should be founded , first and foremost , upon the experience we have brought with us and which has engendered the values that we have articulated as the quintessence of european democracy and declared as the principles binding together the very fabric of the new europe .
set in counterpart to this , yet an integral part of our experience , is the ultimate establishment of the rule of law and human rights , the freedom of individuals and nations , democracy as the criterion of political power , social justice and stability as the goals to which we must constantly aspire .
for the moment , the global community seems limited to markets , economies and information and communication technology .
yet the solid foundations of coexistence in the world demand globalised politics , which will be capable of establishing social coherence which will balance the effects of capital which has already been globalised .
it would be founded in part on the following elements : on the global spread of political and economic democracy , on binding standards of individual and collective human rights , on dialogue between different cultures , religions and civilisations , on opposition to nationalism and xenophobia , on a new balance between the economically developed and developing parts of the world , on the globalisation of learning , knowledge , research and information , on developing international and inter-regional cooperation , on constructing a social order based on the model of social justice and solidarity , on common security and defence and on the fight against organised crime .
a global policy of common responsibility requires not only that we prevent the actions of others that harm the community , but also , and most importantly , that we refrain from such actions .
the second europe is one of countries that are negotiating with the european union : countries , therefore , that are in the first or second-class waiting rooms for the european train .
the third europe is made up of the countries of eastern and south-eastern europe ( ukraine , croatia , bosnia-herzegovina , albania , macedonia and moldova ) , which have not yet reached the station , although they wish to do so .
there also exists a group of countries that , for the moment , do not wish to join the eu .
as it decides on the lasting foundations of peace and also , following the horrors of war in the balkans , on the future of kosovo and montenegro , european unity again faces a great test .
this unity will be all the more vital when serbia needs to be helped in the process of democratic change , when it will be faced with the truth and with its own responsibility .
there are ever increasing signs of the emergence of two classes in society .
the world is beginning to divide in a new way .
this does not simply involve the free flow of ideas , labour , goods and capital , but also values such as respect for diversity , tolerance , equality before the law of the ' citizens of europe ' , irrespective of their national , ethnic and cultural affiliation or outlook .
this will enable a high level of identification with the same values across europe , which , in turn , may represent the basic connective tissue of europe .
at the same time , it would mean that in no european country could those in power dare , in the name of sovereignty or the principle of non-interference in internal affairs , to systematically stifle or limit either individual or collective human rights .
the nato intervention in kosovo is perhaps the first step in this direction .
whether this marks the beginning of a new chapter in international relations and international law , only time will tell .
the real path of globalisation for europe is the enlargement of the european union to cover all european countries .
in any case , we should not forget that these countries , including slovenia , have shown that in a relatively short time they have been able to adopt the rules that have taken a relatively long time to become established in the eu and in the european west .
the great efforts invested in reforms may serve as a guarantee that eu enlargement will be beneficial , both for the current members and for those that wish to become members .
it would also indicate that europe is abandoning its influence and presence in the world .
the decision on enlargement carries with it entirely new risks ; and there must be a degree of understanding for the dilemma facing the eu .
the eu should not use the problems among the candidate countries as an excuse to delay its own reforms , while the candidate countries should not use the difficulties of eu internal reforms as an excuse for putting off the reforms they need for full membership .
at that time , i argued against the discriminatory treatment of slovenia , for the then italian government was preventing us , through its power of veto , from signing the association agreement , and was setting as a condition the resolving of what were for italy issues in dispute deriving from the border treaties between italy and the former yugoslavia .
in the then yugoslavia , slovenia did nothing that was not done in the spirit of the potsdam resolutions by the allies , with whom the slovenes fought together against fascism and nazism .
this time , slovenia does not wish to accept this kind of imposition of conditions , and expects understanding and sympathy from the european union .
i believe that individual bilateral issues should not , in any event , be allowed to become a reason for placing conditions on acceptance as a full member of the eu ; nor should they be allowed to gain the pragmatic support of eu members , for the sake of clear and open foundations in european integration and in its future .
our right to existence as a nation was taken away .
slovenia wishes to be a part of them , and is prepared to contribute what it can to the common life of european nations , but is not prepared to pay an inequitable price for it .
slovenia will be ready for accession by the end of 2002 , and believes that it will then be welcome in the club of eu member states .
we are also pleased that , in helsinki , the member states of the eu committed themselves to enlargement by the same date for those candidate countries best prepared .
this is not just the freedom and autonomy of the individual , but also the freedom of social groups to express ethnic , cultural , religious , political and spiritual affiliations and convictions .
this involves establishing the principle of ' unity in diversity ' .
thank you , mr president , for addressing us in forceful , committed and frank terms .
this was part of the ninth meeting of the presidents of the european parliament and the presidents of candidate countries , a tradition initiated several years ago by my predecessors , enrique baron crespo , klaus hansch and jose maria gil robles .
in the goals you mentioned , you spoke of wishing to enter a house that was solid , strong and united , and i think i am safe in saying that that is the wish of the majority in this house .
i have to confess that it is not very snappy , but it is more interesting than it seems because it does appear to respond to a very deep-seated feeling shared by many of the citizens of our countries .
once again , i think your views are in total accord with the objectives of the european parliament .
madam president , i requested the floor in order to express the profound dissatisfaction of a number of italian members - most probably all the italian members and , i imagine , the dissatisfaction of the majority or the whole of this parliament as well - at the statements made by president kucan yesterday .
in particular , we cannot allow the massacre and eviction of the italians to be described merely as a measure intended to combat collaboration with nazis and fascists , in the spirit of potsdam and yalta which divided europe and from which europe has had to regain its freedom and unity and is still in the process of doing so .
madam president , i wholeheartedly support mr buttiglione ' s speech and , on behalf of the forza italia delegation of which i am head in the european people ' s party , i cannot forget the suffering of the italian people in the former yugoslavia at the end and during the immediate aftermath of the second world war .
therefore , madam president , in addition to calling upon you to make authoritative representations to the slovenian government , i also invite all the members of parliament to sign the declaration calling for the institution of a day dedicated to the shoah , to the holocaust , to be observed throughout the european union .
thank you , mrs napoletano .
statements by the president i have two statements to make .
the quaestors acted quickly to resolve this situation in the best way possible .
madam president , it is totally unacceptable that a building that cost millions of pounds , and which was officially opened less than six months ago , has thousands of faults and is now found to be a potential threat to the people who work in it .
i trust that this problem will be raised in the negotiations for the final price of the building , which should strengthen parliament ' s hand in reducing the cost for the taxpayers of europe .
so that there is no room for error or misinterpretation , i would prefer to read you the letter . ' madam president , during its meeting of 16 may 2000 , the committee on legal affairs and the internal market re-examined the situation of mr le pen .
madam president , i am taking the floor to request that parliament express its opinion in accordance with rule 7 ( 4 ) of the rules of procedure .
go ahead , mr baron crespo .
madam president , rule 7 ( 4 ) of the rules of procedure lays down that the president may ask the competent committee for its opinion and that parliament may express its opinion on the basis of that proposal .
i would ask parliament to express its view , and i do so with all due respect for the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , which has held a full debate on this issue , because i believe that there are two basic elements here .
monday ' s letter from the chairperson of the legal affairs committee - which is the one i know , because i have just been made aware of it - cited article 12 ( 2 ) of the 1976 act concerning the election of representatives of the european parliament , which reads as follows : " where a seat falls vacant pursuant to national provisions in force in a member state , the latter shall inform the european parliament , which shall take note of the fact " .
madam president , we have all been deeply distressed by the illness of our colleague .
we have to recognise that , particularly when the weather gets as hot as it did this week , colleagues ' health is under a great deal of stress .
thank you , mrs banotti .
madam president , together with the other meps who were present during the moments after our colleague fell ill , i must say in all fairness that the time that passed between the incident occurring and the arrival of the doctor would be classed as admirable for any of the world ' s institutions .
madam president , i very much hope that mr staes will get well soon , but i believe that we should also remind and ask the media to inform our co-citizens that our life is not a bed of roses , and that coming and going like nomads is not the best thing for our health .
i will return to the issue we were discussing : my group ' s request for this house to express its opinion in accordance with the regulations .
i was reading article 12 ( 2 ) of the act of 1976 , which is the legal basis cited by the chairperson of the legal affairs committee in her letter of monday .
this paragraph says : " where a seat falls vacant pursuant to national provisions in force in a member state , the latter shall inform the european parliament , which shall take note of the fact " .
i believe that , in accordance with the treaties and our rules , parliament must take note of the decision of the french state .
in any event , i believe that this proposal should not be ratified by the european parliament , i am going to request that it be put to the vote and i would like to say that my group will vote against it .
madam president , i am speaking as coordinator for the socialist group in the european parliament ' s committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
madam president , firstly i would like to say that , in any event , we are all aware that we are facing a situation in which we have to find our way with few specific points of reference and therefore , we must resort to analogy , precedent , common sense and , in general terms , the general principles of the law .
this is because in our statutory law , in our rules of procedure , there is no explicit mention of how to proceed in a situation such as this .
as on other occasions , such as , for example , when the legal affairs committee examines whether or not to lodge an appeal in the court of justice , we are talking about a purely technical assessment by an internal body of parliament , which makes a recommendation to the president , the external body of parliament , who is expected to take the decision .
i do not personally share that view , and i believe that , according to the relevant law , there are reasons not to share it , because , in any event , we are talking about two sentences , both from french courts and both leading to ineligibility .
the sentence exists .
however , in my capacity as chairperson , i must point out that the two letters are complementary .
the second letter refers to what happened at the second meeting and all the members of the legal affairs committee know that that was how i presented it .
the vote had already taken place in the legal affairs committee .
madam president , i did inform you of what happened in that debate and why it did not continue , and it did not do so basically because there was insistence on the issue of the tapie case .
clearly , the legal affairs committee can vote on anything , but since it was not laid down and since it was dealing with such an important and serious issue which did not appear in the agenda , it did not seem to me to be reasonable to hold a vote if we were taking a route which all the speakers - and this is recorded in the minutes - for one reason or another , rejected .
i say this in order to refute these statements .
madam president , rule 7 ( 4 ) is being cited .
that paragraph - in the event that we had to resort to it , which i do not believe to be the case , and i will explain why - states that parliament may express its opinion on a proposal .
therefore , if the president wishes to take this route , a report by the legal affairs committee is absolutely essential and it would be irregular not to proceed in that way , ... ( noise ) ...
for parliament to express its opinion on an issue for which there is no written document or anything whatsoever , and which requires legal consideration at the highest level .
madam president , i believe that it falls to the president to take this decision , and you may consult the rules of procedure , which states that you must consult the legal affairs committee .
however , it was totally proper that we should hear the chairperson of the legal affairs committee which has carried out some extremely difficult and meticulous work on a very delicate issue .
i accept full responsibility in this matter .
once again , i thank the committee for the long hours which its chairperson and members have devoted to this matter .
this , effectively , is what our rules of procedure say .
this is my proposal .
the person in question holds political views most of which i find loathsome .
we will defend these rights with equal vigour , because they are our common rights .
we do not , however , want this issue to be used against us for political purposes .
on whether the mandate of mr le pen should be terminated , the majority of the french delegation in our group will vote in favour of this termination .
mrs hautala , we must be very clear on this .
the house wants parliament to adopt a position at midday on the opinion of the legal affairs committee and it is understood that at that point we will see ... ( mixed reactions ) but the letter will be provided to you .
the house should realise , from the fact that this matter has occupied our committee for a period of three very long and exhaustive meetings , that it was felt to be a very complex and difficult issue to deal with .
the rule talks about parliament having a right to give a view on a proposal , but it seems that you have merely an opinion , not a proposal .
if we were to take a view as a full parliament , then we should have something more in front of us and a great deal more time and careful consideration before we enter into such a hasty vote on an issue such as this .
madam president , i wish to raise a procedural motion .
the position of the legal affairs committee was simple .
we cannot properly discuss and vote at midday on such a politically complex issue when this complexity is based on an internal contradiction between texts in french criminal law , which is not easily accessible to the members of this house , including the french members .
if you decide that a vote must be held in this parliament , this cannot occur without a committee report .
it appears that the council of state ' s decision on the stay of execution will be taken imminently " .
if parliament , therefore , wants a genuine proposal , we will ask the legal affairs committee to draw up this proposal on which we can calmly vote , not at midday , but a little later perhaps .
either this is a legal proposal from the committee and we can vote on this basis or this is not a legal proposal , in which case you are asking for one to be drawn up .
if you want a vote as an indication of our position , that is entirely up to you , but it would be wise to reject this as i believe there is a contradiction .
in our opinion - and on this point , mr wurtz , i cannot agree with you - the french state , the italian state and the german state are sovereign .
the european parliament is also sovereign and can adopt a position contrary to a state decision .
madam president , the first thing i wish to say is that i think it would be unworthy of the european parliament to be at loggerheads over this issue .
i have in mind the difference between article 12 of the act on the election of members by direct universal suffrage and rule 7 ( 4 ) of our rules of procedure .
especially given that we only voted on her report this week in the parliamentary committee , we have since had very little time to work on amendments for the plenary .
but to make matters worse , i have to say that , in this case , rule 115 applies , which states that , except in the cases of urgency referred to in rules 50 and 112 , a debate and vote shall not be opened on a text unless it was distributed at least 24 hours previously .
i suggest postponing the debate and vote on this extremely important report to the next part-session .
i wish to make three brief points .
i myself was absent , but i have had this confirmed to me .
there is one point that , to many of us , is the issue of substance in this report .
of all the areas of political sensitivity in contemporary europe , that dealing with racism and xenophobia should be given the highest priority in this house .
i appeal to the house to make creative use of the possibility open to us , in setting our agenda , to recognise this substantive political requirement and to facilitate a debate at 3 p.m .
however , i am in favour of the compromise of starting this debate at 3.00 p.m. , and i also hope that we will be able to finish it this afternoon .
i would like to point out once more that it is indeed extremely important to finish it during this sitting because , otherwise , we will lose all authority which we can still exercise in the social affairs council , to be held on 5 and 6 june and , in that way , the report ' s significance will be seriously undermined .
opinions may be divided about austria , but when it comes to making it clear what our position is on racism in europe , we should not get bogged down in a formal debate as we did just now , we should make it plain that we are clear-thinking people .
the debate on this dossier in the committee i have the honour to chair has been an excellent example of cooperation between different committees in parliament and indeed of cooperation between parliament , the commission and the council presidency .
when it was voted in committee on monday night , the text and all 200 amendments were available in all languages .
the fact is that the debate on this directive has been exemplary - it has been a credit to this parliament and any attempt to delay that debate or to delay a vote would be a sordid political move for reasons of party political advantage . ( applause ) madam president , on behalf of my group , i would like to insist on rule 115 and it is essential that it is checked how and when the translations were provided .
that is another issue .
mr oostlander , this situation clearly comes under rule 115 and mr cox ' s proposal takes account of this rule .
madam president , the proposal which i have made and i shall repeat is that we should consider holding the debate at 15.00 hrs followed by the urgency debate , followed by votes on the report , other reports that are completed in debate and urgencies this afternoon .
i have a right to know .
mr posselt , considering the time necessary for the debate on mrs buitenweg ' s report , the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance will take place at approximately 4.30 p.m .
this report is also a reaction to the excellent communication by the committee on new measures to fight trafficking in women .
the report primarily aims to fight trafficking in women , but also in children and men , that is to say in people in general .
in a report by the united nations , it is stressed that trafficking in people is one of the fastest growing forms of organised crime .
the huge profits and relative safety for the perpetrators who generate this type of crime will undoubtedly have something to do with this .
priority must also be given to the fight against organised networks which are not only involved in trafficking in people but which are also involved in all kinds of other criminal activity , such as the trade in narcotics , arms and such like .
various initiatives have already been taken at european level .
however , the harmonisation of the different national legislations in this field and the ensuing discrepancies in methods of investigation and prosecution have to be tackled at european level as a matter of priority .
from a survey organised in connection with this report , it is quite clear that there are considerable discrepancies in this sphere between the member states and between one candidate country and another .
it is encouraging that , in the first half of this year , the commission wishes to submit detailed proposals for harmonising criminal legislation in the member states on trafficking in people with a view to their sexual exploitation and , specifically , proposals for granting temporary residence permits to victims who are prepared to cooperate in the investigations which are necessary if legal action is to be taken against the traffickers .
scanning the amendments , i have the impression that some people want to hijack this report , which is about victims of trafficking in people , to start a debate on prostitution .
in the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities , a clear decision was made to discuss trafficking in women , or forced prostitution , within the framework of this report .
as i said , trafficking in people is not just about the problem of demand for prostitution .
victims of trafficking in women also find it extremely difficult to re-integrate into their place of origin and even within their own families .
by holding this debate today in the european parliament , we are helping the victims to regain their dignity and integrity .
this is why , in our opinion , we cannot use the term ' forced prostitution ' in this report .
trafficking in women involves terrible sexual exploitation .
we must help these victims to speak out and denounce their living conditions .
when they resist the pressure of traffickers and pimps , they are threatened either personally or through their families .
the traffickers belong to a mafia-like criminal organisation and control several links in the network that has power over the victim .
not only do women from asian countries fall victim , but also more and more women from central and eastern european countries , including women from candidate countries .
in any event , we should recognise that the european commission ' s proposals are , on the whole , reasonable and hopefully useful .
nevertheless , and given the cross-border nature of this crime , we need to harmonise its classification in all the member states , including cross-border aspects and universal jurisdiction .
furthermore , the extremely harsh conditions in which the victims live more than justify the member states granting them permanent residence permits for humanitarian reasons .
if we really want to help the victims , we must guarantee their safety as well as that of their families and compensate them through the seizure of the networks ' assets .
all of these considerations have been approved practically unanimously by the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities , but they will not be enough .
combating the trafficking in women and immigration policy must become a priority within the political agenda of the european union and the member states .
until we find overall solutions to the question of development , the number of people searching for a better life will be unstoppable and migratory pressure uncontainable .
at the same time , legislation as well as cooperation are inadequate .
the first concerns automatic refugee status for victims of trafficking in women .
what is required here is tantamount to surrendering an important and fundamental part of legal protection , namely the fact that one is considered innocent until proven guilty .
finally , the discussion on trafficking in women and people is important and a matter of urgency .
this is why it would be wrong to weigh down this discussion with moral judgements on prostitution , as certain people here are attempting to do .
in these discussions several rather abolitionist associations have tried to lump together trafficking in women , prostitution and pimping .
whether legislation is abolitionist as in france , prohibitionist as in sweden or even sometimes regulatory , if it fails to recognise a whole population this can only reinforce discrimination against forced immigrants and also prostitutes , irrespective of whether they are immigrants or not .
mrs roure is right in her analysis of this problem but we accept that different solutions must be examined and that various proposals must be made and considered .
the commission absolutely must examine all forms of common legislation on prostitution which would give real status to prostitutes in order to protect these women and men from pimping , violence and marginalisation .
the first concerns the role of the sex industry in this issue .
that is very strange , especially when we are talking about slavery and trafficking in women .
during a conference organised jointly by the united states of america and the philippines in march , the very lucrative aspect of this new market was also raised .
trafficking in human beings is , after drugs and weapons , the third largest source of income for organised crime .
yet trafficking in human beings is , above all , a violation of human dignity and human rights .
so much the better , for the resignation shown towards what society has deemed to be irreversible is intolerable .
we must now help these people whose bodies are being exploited for commercial purposes , both in our countries and in their countries of origin , by increasing aid for development , education and cooperation between countries .
trafficking in human beings is incredibly widespread in our countries because the demand exists and because the european union is adept at showing itself to be a greedy customer , disdainful of the distress caused to these adults and children who have been denied any choice .
to conclude , i will refer to the slogan of the seminar organised in paris on 15 may under the patronage of the european parliament which says that the humiliation of human beings through prostitution represents an intolerable attack on human rights .
mr president , on behalf of the members of the bonino list , i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report on the tragic issue of trafficking in women .
the report recommends possible solutions which have already been successfully implemented , such as issuing victims with residence permits and providing protection and free healthcare .
given the current state of legislation , we are faced with a wide diversity of penal traditions in our member states .
instead , we must take inspiration from the method in the schmid report on combating fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment .
to conclude , i am sure that this would render the action we are taking to combat this scourge more effective and that we would avoid the pitfalls of a harmonisation which would delay the measures which must now be adopted .
on the other hand , the british delegation , which is now 36 members , has retabled the resolution in its original form .
the debate will take place as proposed .
mr president , the resolution by the green group was tabled first .
i say this in relation to the provan report and the reform of the voting system in parliament .
mr president , i have an interest in a sector affected by the commission communication which is the subject of this report .
as a result , i will not take part in any vote on this report .
i do not want to have a debate on this .
mr baron crespo , is this a formal request on behalf of the socialist group ?
i would like to thank everyone for their comments but i agree most with the comment made by mr hansch .
the bureau is looking at the working methods of parliament .
whereas , perhaps owing to my curious accent , it was transcribed as " biannual " , which would require two reports a year and would be over-egging the pudding !
i accept that it is unsatisfactory that groups can withdraw their requests at any stage .
there must be a chance to do this if another group withdraws its request .
as normal after the votes , we will continue with the debates and the first two are sorensen and karamanou .
that is correct and that is what the house has agreed to , so that is what we will be doing .
mr president , i rise on a similar point , because i am not clear what the house has agreed to .
we have agreed to vote at 6 p.m .
what we could do is reduce the amount of speaking time for urgencies so there will be an opportunity for a debate on each of them .
mr ford , that is not a matter for the president .
what we have decided is to allocate the first hour of what normally would have been the urgency debate to the buitenweg report .
it is then up to the groups to decide how they allocate speaking time for the urgency debates .
it will depend on how the groups allocate speaking time between the different subjects and that is a matter for the groups , not for the president .
it was not agreed we would reduce the time of that debate , let us be clear on that .
i said an hour .
explanations of vote - ferber report ( a5-0121 / 2000 ) mr president , i was unable to assent to the ferber report .
but the european union will not become more democratic if the european parliament receives more funding .
the money that is available should be spent on the needs of our 375 million people and on the protection of our environment , not on the european parliament as an institution .
i am of the opinion that we could save ourselves a great deal of cost and unnecessary effort if we were to replace the system of reports and rapporteurs by getting the groups to react directly to the planned proposals , as is the case in most national parliaments .
mr president , i was happy to vote for the ferber report on the budget for the financial year 2001 , but i am not very happy with the minimal amount of space , money and european union funds it allocates to supporting activities benefiting pensioners and the elderly .
the amount proposed corresponds to 20 % of the appropriations for heading five and therefore respects the ceiling which the european parliament itself set for 2001 .
however , in view of the need to deal with the consequences , including linguistic ones , of future enlargements , this limited increase in the budget of our institution more than ever requires rational and responsible management of this budget .
in this way , respect for the identities , nations and cultures of europe and cost-effectiveness in the daily work of the european institutions could be combined .
this solution would also offer the undeniable advantage of benefiting all the european candidate countries whose first foreign language is french , german or english .
indeed , the european parliament has no need at all for the building in which we are meeting this week !
this was agreed by the heads of state and government at their summit in edinburgh years ago .
the idea is to keep at most the specialist services such as the printing and translating services in luxembourg .
mr president , as the rapporteur rightly mentions in the second point in his report , budget consolidation must be given the highest priority at present .
the rapporteur was unable to include the stability programme which has now been presented by the austrian government in his report .
as far as we are concerned , we were not elected to congratulate governments which help employers and major financial groups to get rich by exacerbating inequalities , leaving 18 million men and women unemployed , making flexibility and precariousness widespread and drastically reducing the wage bill in order to ensure continued growth in capital income , including in its most parasitic and speculative forms .
like mr katiforis , i am delighted to see renewed growth in europe .
however , also like the rapporteur , i know that this will not be enough to enable a return to a situation of full employment without the member states adopting a proactive policy and , i would add , without a reduction in working hours .
this means that despite referring to the need for active employment policies to combat unemployment and to achieve full employment in the medium term , the commission continues to prescribe the same solutions , which have not brought any net improvement in employment , since the current unemployment rate is even higher than it was at the start of the decade , as the commission recognises .
in this european parliament report , the rapporteur makes some criticisms of the acceleration of the convergence and stability criteria objectives , insists on the need to increase investment and accepts the adoption of global fiscal measures in order to combat financial speculation .
the broad guidelines of european economic policy developed in this report seem to be heading in the right direction .
full employment and the transition to a knowledge-based economy form our common aim for the first decade of the 21st century .
on the contrary , current job creations are due to an economic context characterised by an increase in consumption among wage-earners and a weak euro favouring exports .
two points have particularly shaken us .
however , the rapporteur goes even further in supporting the commission ' s recommendations .
we have accordingly voted against the report .
goebbels report ( a5-0135 / 2000 ) mr president , i have already declared , during the debate on the decision to allow greece to enter the european single currency , that i am totally in favour of greece ' s immediate entry , for it has met all the criteria required by the treaties of the european union .
from a technical point of view , greece has undisputedly managed to fulfil the criteria set in the maastricht treaty for entering the third stage of emu .
many meps have expressed doubts about , in particular , the sustainability of the convergence and stability policy of the member states .
we have all been able to see how the pleas addressed to greece to make further efforts to reduce its debt and to obtain lasting stability do not only pertain to the situation of greece itself , but also to the discontent about the way in which other member states with a very high debt ratio have behaved , not making sufficient use of the options available to them , as a result of economic growth and low interest rates , to reduce the debt .
greece is welcome in euroland , and all member states in the euro zone must respect the letter and spirit of the stability and growth pact .
sellafield resolutions mr president , the vote on sellafield was a first for the european parliament .
i think it is the first time that the european parliament has spoken in favour of uniform safety standards for nuclear power stations .
randzio-plath report ( a5-0109 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the randzio-plath report on the distortion of competition where public undertakings are concerned .
however , it is only interested in transparency with regard to public undertakings and only in terms of finding out whether state aid distorts competition between public and private undertakings .
we will vote against this draft directive and reaffirm that , in the interests of society , we must have total transparency in the operation and accounts of all undertakings , both public and private , and the abolition of secrecy in business .
by taking as its basic philosophy the need to ensure competition between the public and private sectors , the commission has , in fact , ended up undervaluing the important role of public enterprises which provide public services , and this is unacceptable .
the 50 poorest countries spend twice as much servicing their debt as they receive in aid .
the unctad report on sub-saharan africa shows that african countries have not received any benefit from structural adjustment programmes for over ten years .
therefore , the european union should promote an international , bilateral and multilateral action cancelling the third world debt with no conditions attached .
the mugabe regime is authoritarian and corrupt .
we have therefore not only voted against this motion but must also denounce the cynicism and hypocrisy of those who defend the interests of the privileged whites in zimbabwe .
paasilinna report ( a5-0094 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the paasilinna report on the telecommunications regulatory package but i found it unsatisfactory as well .
behind the regulations was a political objective of ensuring growth , employment and competitiveness and of giving everyone access to the information society while ensuring adequate legal protection .
the commission has played a supervisory role in this which has resulted in a series of reports since may 1997 .
the commission communication before us today is part of this process and the assessment presented is balanced to say the least .
approximately two years after full liberalisation , the telecommunication services markets in the member states are characterised by a rising growth rate , many new arrivals and falling charges .
the exclusion of some citizens from the new information technology society cannot be tolerated .
the preservation of universal service must therefore ensure the inclusive nature of this society .
due to a desire to see the cost of access to the internet lowered and for this to be accessible to all citizens , parliament insists in its report on the need to open up competition in the local loop .
to conclude , i would say that the telecommunications liberalisation process is not an end in itself but a step towards ensuring the transition to the information society .
portugal telecom , a public enterprise which has received billions of escudos of public investment , has been partially privatised , which has led to an increase in charges to what are called ' residential users ' - the majority of the population - who today face the ' highest charges in europe ' .
in this context , the report illuminates a number of important aspects .
what the report does not discuss , and what the commission ' s report does not take account of , either , are the different conditions prevailing in the eu ' s member states when it comes to developing and maintaining different types of network .
alyssandrakis report ( a5-0122 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for this report , which is the first alyssandrakis report on radio frequencies , which are nowadays used chiefly to advance mobile phone communications technology .
i am not referring to pensioners and the elderly in general , but , in this case , i am referring to my mother .
alyssandrakis report ( a5-0119 / 2000 ) mr president , in relation to the second alyssandrakis report , i must mention my daughter .
the present system for filing patent applications obliges the applicant to file a patent application separately in each member state , which inevitably results in an undesirable fragmentation of the european market .
any research policy based on this sort of perception and which serves this sort of policy is bound to distort the nature of research as a procedure for producing new knowledge and as a productive power .
according to the commission communication , the gap between total public and private expenditure on research in the usa and in the eu is continuing to widen , having grown from eur 12 billion in 1992 to some eur 60 billion in 1998 .
similarly , in terms of employment , there are just 2.5 researchers for every thousand workers in european companies , compared with 6.7 per thousand in the usa and 6 per thousand in japan .
yet we know that research and technology contribute between 25 % and 50 % to economic growth and play an important part in the competitiveness , employment and quality of life of europe ' s citizens .
this being the case , how can the heads of government of the 15 member states of the european union pledge to achieve a new strategic objective for the next decade , that is to make the european union the most dynamic and competitive knowledge based economy in the world , capable of sustainable economic growth , with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion , unless they significantly change their research policy , and particularly the budgets earmarked for this ?
smet / groner report ( a5-0125 / 2000 ) the recognition of women ' s rights as an integral and indivisible component of universal human rights requires the adoption of accompanying measures which will allow this recognition to be transposed into concrete actions .
of particular importance is the request for specific preventive measures and measures to promote women ' s health and guarantee their right to genetic health , as long as this right is not understood to mean the right to abortion but rather the right to the protection of the health of the expectant mother and the unborn child .
with regard to the promotion of equal opportunities in the context of policies on cooperation with development , i would like to point out that , in my view , efforts in this area should concentrate especially on guaranteeing girls ' access to primary education , which means at the same time ensuring that it is free .
it is also of fundamental importance for the council , the commission and the member states to do everything possible to combat violence against women , especially in the home , at the workplace , in society in general and in armed conflicts .
the un already intends to rule the world by imposing a uniform vision , based on the western model , on all the regions of the planet , regardless of their existing cultures and laws .
while they have succeeded in their aim of weakening still further the demography of western countries , they have not responded in a logical way to the more urgent question of protecting those women who are really in difficulty .
we are opposed to discrimination , we do believe in equality of treatment between men and women .
on the issue of making contraceptives more widely available we voted against the amendment because we believe these are issues of personal morality and conscience and not an issue where the european union should be making a political stand .
regarding paragraph 26 , which states that " the respect of women 's rights should be one of the main conditions for the granting of aid and should be closely monitored in all external relations and cooperation " , the european union must not tie any specifications to its distribution of aid nor impose any conditions for the reception of aid amongst women , realising that women are extremely vulnerable to the use of coercion and coercive techniques in order to realise their basic human rights such as shelter , nutrition , education and basic health care .
however , we believe that , in the context of this debate , the absolute priority must be to provide education .
we also cannot accept the individualisation of human rights to be found in this report .
finally , over one thousand women ' s associations in 140 countries are this year organising a world march to fight against continuing violence and to fight for equality .
we have therefore voted in favour of this report despite its limitations and we will demonstrate in paris on 17 june together with all those who are fighting for equality and women ' s rights .
mr president , it was fifty years ago last week that robert schuman , with his speech , laid the foundation for the ecsc .
i have understood that some people in the council are in favour of excluding asylum and migration policy , as well as the issuing of visas , from this ban on discrimination .
a much-debated topic in this parliament is the burden of proof .
maybe those opposing this procedure could explain to me sometime during this debate why we nonetheless have to review it and , more specifically , why there is less protection against racial discrimination than against sex discrimination .
i hope therefore that the house , in its wisdom , will decide tomorrow to adhere as far as possible to the commission ' s original text .
unfortunately , statutory measures against racism are necessary .
they provide victims with protection and a right to redress .
on behalf of my colleague mogens camre , i wish to categorically repudiate this categorisation and in particular the misleading nature of the text , given that the report refers to a leader of a neo-nazi party in denmark , which has nothing to do with the danish people ' s party .
president , as co-rapporteur for this , europe ' s first ever race directive , i and my party are proud to contribute to legislation which establishes common standards of protection for the victims of racial discrimination throughout our continent .
this will send a clear signal to the racist extreme right that they have no part in modern europe and it closes the chapter of racism , anti-semitism and xenophobia which tragically blighted our history in the century just past .
the 24-year old black care worker set on fire in a racist attack in britain , the 5 neo-nazis convicted of beating two vietnamese people in germany , the french authorities cited by amnesty international for torture of a moroccan-dutch national , all of which took place in europe this very week are simply the most visible examples of racial discrimination which is the daily experience of black and ethnic minority europeans in our businesses , communities and on our streets .
the commission for racial equality from the uk is just one example in europe and i am pleased that some of the best lessons of the uk ' s race relations act alongside best practice from other member states are being translated into european law today .
let me turn to the specific improvements we propose and which we expect to be accepted : that incitement or pressure to discriminate is banned just as much as the discrimination itself ; that groups as well as individuals will be able to bring cases including a legal status for voluntary organisations to engage in civil dialogue , a partnership to implement the directive for the first time ; that the scope of the new law is clearly applied to all public authorities ; that conciliation is offered to resolve disputes without prejudice to the right of access to the courts ; and that the effectiveness of the new law is tested one to two years , not five , following its implementation .
finally , i offer my sincere congratulations to kathalijne buitenweg for her work and i thank her for her cooperation in bringing this before parliament .
national groups such as the uk race and europe network in my country , the european network against racism and , in particular , the starting line group have worked for 20 years to get this legislation and for them today is still simply the beginning .
mr president , i want to add my voice to those members calling for the swift passage of this legislation through parliament .
since the 1980s we have led on action and on initiatives to combat racism , xenophobia and discrimination .
groups and anti-racist organisations in my region , in the north-west of england , are eagerly awaiting this legislation .
so vicious was this attack that merseyside police called for an urgent press conference .
this is why it is vital that europe gives a strong public statement on racism and discrimination backed up by legislative action to ban this and to extend the scope of legal redress by shifting the burden of proof from the victim to the racist and allied groups and organisations to bring race discrimination cases to courts across the eu .
in voting through this report and its recommendations , this parliament can give a strong signal that it is prepared to be tough on racism and tough on the causes and perpetrators of racism .
those parties which seek to legitimise and promote racism and discrimination through the ballot box , and we have examples in many countries , should take note of this directive and incorporate the recommendations and its legal force in their own constitutions .
firstly , i want to congratulate the commission on this text .
it is a good text .
two things i would like to highlight : amendment no 29 , which tries to make sure that there is no hiding place for racism , no hiding place behind considerations of religion , considerations of belief and considerations of nationality .
i hope the commission will make sure in the action programme , proposed to accompany this package , that we have a lot of projects from the applicant states .
it is very important that we get it through today .
i hope that at the end of the afternoon we will have no more shenanigans , no more delays and we will make sure we get the vote at 6 p.m .
some 15 or 20 years ago in the netherlands , i worked together with a christian-democrat member of government , mrs jeltien kraaieveld , who was also involved in this anti-discrimination legislation in the field of discrimination based on sex .
on behalf of part of my group , i also find it extremely important that elections of employees representatives are clearly provided for .
naturally , these too should be held free from discrimination based on race or ethnic origin .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i am a member of the group which has joined forces with the two rapporteurs , mrs kathalijne buitenweg and mr richard howitt , with a great deal of conviction in order to enable parliament to deliver the parliamentary opinion on this commission proposal this week , and i would like to thank the rapporteurs very explicitly and with all my heart for the extremely constructive spirit in which we have been able to work .
the social democrats in parliament have fought doggedly to keep this item on the agenda and i am pleased that we managed to achieve this thanks to a sound proposal for compromise from the liberals .
with all due sympathy and respect for the work which mr arie oostlander and a number of delegates in the ppe-de group have put into this in order to win that group over too , i have to say that the continuous attempts at sabotage and procedural games which we have experienced here this week are , as far as i am concerned , proof that a hard core of conservative ppe-de members want nothing more than to undermine this report and the directive .
we all know that the portuguese presidency is determined to bring this debate in the council to a successful conclusion .
the majority of meps know very well why this directive is important .
by implementing the treaty ' s non-discrimination principle swiftly and forcefully , europe wants to give out an unambiguous message to the citizens in our own countries and those in the candidate countries .
this is to prove that europe is serious about the fight for equal opportunities , irrespective of people ' s race or ethnic origin and also because it is a well-known fact that discrimination is still rife in our countries , and that there is still racism and extreme nationalism which , in fact , is more prominent than before because racist political parties are cashing in on the ' own nation first ' ideas .
secondly , in our opinion , the strength of this directive will stand or fall with its enforceability , the extent to which it monitors discrimination , the efficiency of the measures taken against discrimination and , as such , the importance we attach to the possibility of organising collective actions to tie sanctions in with the directive .
i am convinced that the centre for equal opportunities in my own country will be encouraged in its activities by this directive .
it is also timely for europe to legislate now with the alarming rise in the far right and racist violence .
thirdly , the inclusion via amendments nos 15 and 29 of disguised race discrimination .
my group is not favourable to the inclusion of religion or belief in the scope of this directive because that needs much more thought .
however , we believe unequal treatment should be caught if it only pretends to be based on religion or nationality but is , in fact , race discrimination pure and simple .
fourthly , the inclusion , as has already been mentioned , of incitement or pressure to discriminate - that is very important .
sixthly , although my group understands the thinking behind amendment no 38 , the fact that it includes private clubs or associations is rather problematical .
to give you an example : i represent london and it could mean a problem for caribbean people getting together to reminisce about life in the caribbean in the 1950s if some white people were excluded .
i think that amendment no 38 is not well drafted .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , three years after the treaty of amsterdam was adopted and the famous and much-debated article 13 was introduced , the council is proposing two directives to implement the principles of this treaty .
the definition of a minimum european framework for the fight against discrimination is therefore urgently required .
singling out one type of discrimination gives the impression that some types of discrimination are less reprehensible than others .
the council must therefore make haste and propose a draft directive encompassing all types of discrimination .
the second problem concerns the exclusion of religious discrimination from this directive .
discrimination against north african communities in europe is also two-sided .
it may even often be said that the fear of islam acts as a catalyst for racism towards these communities .
to conclude , it is essential that the council adopts an integrated approach towards the legal tools to be established in order to apply article 13 in our daily life .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it would have been a good thing if the european parliament had made a positive , informative and decisive contribution to the proposal for a council directive , in line with the impetus given by the portuguese presidency .
if there is discrimination between a black person and a white person , or vice versa , for example if someone discriminates against a white portuguese in favour of a black portuguese , or against a black portuguese in favour of a white portuguese , this is clearly unlawful racism and should result in prosecution .
the problem is that in many of the amendments these two concepts are confused , with potentially disastrous effects , particularly in areas such as public service , and even in other , unexpected areas .
with each passing day , europe is becoming a continent which , as the united nations ' reports on the european population trend illustrate , is host to citizens of third states but which , above all , needs their contribution , their culture , their potential and their initiatives .
in a context such as this , the union must reaffirm the fundamental principles of democracy and ensure that all citizens and residents have the same rights and the same duties .
this is because , in general terms , we do not have confidence in institutions which , in violation of the democratic principle of the separation of powers , interfere with other institutions , with the result that they either upset the balance between the legislative , executive and judicial authorities or they find themselves without a specific function because everything is already being done by other institutions .
with these reservations , the members of the bonino list will support the report and the directive , in the hope that the european parliament and the commission will reflect upon the points we have raised and make the appropriate amendments .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , dismayed as i am about the way the 14 member states have prejudged austria , i particularly welcome the commission proposal .
it goes without saying that the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin should be applied .
however , it is possible to overshoot the mark , even in the case of such an uncontroversial issue .
the reversal of the burden of proof proposed by the commission would mean imposing an intolerable burden on small- and medium-sized enterprises in particular , as they would in future have to keep a record of every job interview , so that in serious cases they would be able to provide proof .
arrangements like this do not result in greater understanding for the victims of discrimination .
social groups , political parties , parliaments , meps and international conferences have proposed and have insisted that we legislate against the huge issue of racism and the conduct of organised society .
the second reason is that , because of the current political climate , because of the political problems which have arisen within the union over recent months in connection with racist clashes at political and social level , today ' s piece of work is the first to go beyond words , to go beyond resolutions and general political expression to specific policy making .
the european commission has worked quickly following the presentation of your committee ' s report , with the collaboration of all the services involved , and i am pleased to say that over half the amendments have been accepted either in spirit or in part .
i must stress that the amendments which have not been accepted have mainly been rejected for administrative or legal reasons or because we know from our experience and from our collaboration over the years that the council is sure to reject them .
i am pleased to say that we agree with the amendments to incorporate the sexual dimension ( amendments nos 7 and 59 ) , the amendments to the material and personal scope ( amendments nos 5 , 30 , 31 , 34 , 36 and 37 ) and the amendment on taking positive action ( amendment no 40 ) .
we also agree with the idea of conciliation procedures in amendment no 42 , consultation with governmental organisations ( amendments nos 21 , 50 and 51 ) and with the amendments relating to previous acts of the european parliament and the council ( amendments nos 3 , 4 , 8 , 9 and 12 ) .
i also agree with your proposal to define the role of the european monitoring centre - as contained in amendment no 59 - although i should point out that our experience at the commission tells us that the submission of reports by member states every two years is a particularly demanding task and will not enable us to correctly assess the impact of the policies developed .
long discussions were held in the commission when the proposal was drawn up as to whether a ban on discrimination on the grounds of religion should be included in this directive .
the number of amendments which has actually been accepted is very large and i imagine that we agree that we need to examine how these ideas can be incorporated into an amended proposal so that we retain the structure and balance in the text and the proposal has some chance of being approved by the council , because i think that , for all of us , the best balance is between what we want and what is feasible .
the reforms which we are presently endeavouring to implement within the commission have taken account of the entire framework of this directive .
the international community sets great store by the fight against racism and it is also high on the agenda of the member states , but a great deal still needs to be done in order to protect human rights and fight racism , xenophobia and intolerance .
it would be beneficial if organisations or other legal entities which intend to fight discrimination were to have the right to initiate the procedure to promote the observation or application of this directive or to support victims in the procedure .
the same system is now also being proposed with regard to this directive .
clearly , in the 21st century , ideological and political convictions will meet somewhere between the progressive , cosmopolitan perception which accepts a multicultural society , and fundamentalism , which approaches those who are different with fear and enmity and promotes racism and xenophobia .
once the directive has been adopted by the council , we hope that the member states will quickly give immediate priority : first , to judicial cooperation and harmonisation of their criminal legislation ; secondly , to instructing state agencies and employers on how to apply the directive to all natural and legal persons ; thirdly , to applying the 1997 charter of the european political parties on the defence of fundamental rights and the fight against all forms of racial violence ; fourthly , to the right of individual victims of discrimination to take collective action ; fifthly , to guaranteeing the access of minorities to vocational training , employment , health services and national insurance and pension schemes and their participation in economic , social , political and cultural life .
we have to send the message that we are opposed to racism and xenophobia across the eu .
i am glad for that reason that we are having the vote today .
this is the reason i wanted amendment no 48 on simple language to go in .
the plaintiff does have to provide facts and it has already been said that equal opportunities for men and women cover this in european legislation as well .
the action programme against discrimination , the commission ' s two proposals for directives , the opening of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia , and lastly the adoption of article 13 of the treaty all give an irrevocable signal .
the european parliament has also made its own contribution .
i would like to expressly thank mrs buitenweg for her excellent work and i assume that we will adopt this report by a clear majority today , even if the commissioner responsible has let it be known here today that she cannot accept half the amendments .
nevertheless , a very important step is being taken today and we are giving a signal .
at a time when some rightly have doubts about the union , it could in this way also show that it is not just a coalition to defend the economic interests of the rich countries but that it is based on values of freedom , tolerance and solidarity .
for all these reasons we must vote for this report .
most countries already have legislation against racism and discrimination , including in some of their constitutions .
in france last year there were only 14 complaints and convictions for acts of discrimination .
the associations are currently leading the fight against discrimination .
currently , a young person born in a member state of foreign parents is faced with two different situations .
parliament and the commission should ask the council about this issue so that greater coherence can be achieved in all legislation .
but he is free to accept or reject my advice .
we had a similar example in 20th century china during the cultural revolution .
my own party was accused by a lot of left-wingers of racism because it spoke out on the issue of asylum-seekers in the united kingdom .
as so often in this house , we have failed to think through the possible unintended consequences .
this legislation is unnecessary at a european level .
i am proud to say that i am opposed to discrimination and racism in all its forms , but this irrational and unjust legislation will bring europe further into disrepute among many of my constituents .
i am pleased to say that the rest of my delegation will be joining me in opposing it .
mr president , i wish to make three points .
firstly , i should like to congratulate the rapporteur , the draftspeople and the commission - in particular commissioner diamantopoulou - on the directive and the report we have in front of us .
we have here legislation that will make a real impact on the lives of the 12 to 14 million third country nationals living in the european union and the 4 million black europeans .
secondly , and without subtracting an iota from my support for the report and the directive as a whole , the council will have to resolve a number of outstanding issues : on representative actions , on the definition of indirect discrimination and , as the previous speaker said , on the burden of proof .
the best basis is the existing burden-of-proof legislation , which is now underpinned by 25 years of case-law , and where the numbers are not available , expert opinion will suffice .
thirdly and finally , i wish to warn my colleagues in the ppe group .
with mr haider and mr le pen lurking in the background , the vlaams blok and the movimento sociale fiamma tricolore promoting racism and xenophobia , the ppe group , as a whole , should not be surprised if people conclude that if they continue with their technical objections , then this is a thinly disguised attempt to block these proposals which the vast majority of europe so much welcomes .
mr president , the economist says that we need 13.5 million immigrants by the year 2015 in order to get everything done that needs to be done in europe .
perhaps we must also combat these things for the sake of our own future .
in swedish law on measures to combat ethnic discrimination , it is expressly stated that , in using the term ethnic affiliation , the law means that someone belongs to a group of persons of the same race , skin colour , national or ethnic origin or confession .
i assume this will be reflected in their willingness to take on board what parliament is saying .
we have to acknowledge that in this house we regularly call upon other countries and governments to recognise the rights of ethnic minorities and to practice policies of universal human rights .
particularly as an austrian , i can say that in recent years , with a population of 7 million , we have accepted a million refugees .
austria has the world ' s strictest laws against fascism and against nazism .
mr president it is a measure of the effectiveness and importance of this legislation that even in the midst of a comprehensive series of reforms of race relations legislation in my own country , we have a situation where further improvements can be made .
i was going to make a speech of the normal variety , but having heard some of the responses across the house , i want to change what i was going to say , which is more in sorrow than in anger .
this house should recognise and change its tone on what it sees as article 13 .
one is that we create a level playing field through article 13 .
the burden of proof , the ability for organisations to take cases on behalf of individuals who have been harassed or discriminated against - all of these laws do not create an advantage for the majority of society .
we must start talking positively about these proposals mainly because the commission and the portuguese presidency , many who have created this report , many of my colleagues who have worked hard on their opinions , have responded in the way that we have because we understand that this legislation is not about victims , it is about enriching eu countries .
so do i , for i applaud the fact that the commission has been so quick in getting this proposal on the table and implementing article 13 .
we have seen how this is an enormous advantage in connection with sex discrimination , and it is therefore good that it is now being introduced in this area .
in this way , the commission is going to create a hierarchy of grounds for discrimination , a way of proceeding which i think is totally at odds with the wording , meaning and spirit of article 13 .
it is essential that we take advantage of the opportunity that is represented in the commission 's proposals on the whole of article 13 .
i hope that this approach will be addressed when we look at the situation effecting all minorities .
they demonstrate that the member states , parliament and the commission are serious about the long-term eradication of discrimination and racism .
it does not fulfil my every ambition , yet it represents a start to a fight against racism in europe , in our nations , our regions and , more importantly , in our communities .
one day i hope to be standing in this chamber debating directives which will aim to eradicate discrimination specifically based on , for example , disability , age and sexual orientation .
finally , the spectacle of a white middle-class british male tory giving a lecture on discrimination and the effects of discrimination would be laughable if it was not so damning and lamentable . ( applause ) .
we should , therefore , adopt this report without further delay .
this directive forms part of a larger package which implements article 13 of the ec treaty .
as others have already mentioned , this article does not only pertain to combating discrimination based on racial or ethnic origin , but also based on other grounds .
i can understand why the commission has decided to include the fight against racial discrimination in a separate draft directive .
far harder to accept is the fact that this draft directive against racial discrimination applies over a broader social range and , in terms of content , comprises stronger legal guarantees and control mechanisms than the second draft directive which is still in the pipeline and which is designed to fight other types of discrimination .
this would give out the wrong political message which would , in particular , have an adverse effect on the fight against discrimination on grounds such as age , handicap and sexual orientation .
there is not enough time to list them all here , but i do not have the impression that a lack of knowledge on the part of the commission concerning this matter is the problem .
i therefore hope that the commissioner will pledge that she will start this exercise within the foreseeable future and will present proposals soon , as a result of which the equal treatment of the sexes in and out of the work sphere , but especially outside the work sphere , will be aligned to the directive which we are discussing , and will hopefully be adopting , here today .
mr president , we are all opposed to discrimination and violence of all forms .
however , i do not believe extending eu competence to this area is either necessary or useful to its cause .
what we need is education , time and confidence building in a spirit of cooperation between the various ethnic communities .
the shift of the burden of proof , as called for by this draft directive , is both frightening and extreme .
this is a very dangerous precedent against all forms of natural justice .
criminal justice must remain the prerogative of the member states .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place immediately following the urgencies .
the european union , the united states and the united nations have all displayed considerable concern about the developments in sierra leone .
mr president , the violation of the lome peace agreement by the revolutionary united front in sierra leone is not only a human tragedy for the civilian populations , especially for children , but is also a political tragedy for the whole international community .
the impunity enjoyed by the rebels in sierra leone and the weakness of the peace-keeping forces , who can neither leave the country , for political and humanitarian reasons , nor effectively confront the armed rebels , are a threat to any future united nations peace mission .
the mandate of the united nations mission in sierra leone is , by any reckoning , insufficient to achieve its objectives .
its reinforcement , requested by the secretary-general of the united nations , depends on a decision by the security council , the same security council which gave the blue helmets the resources they required in east timor and bosnia , but which is much more reluctant to do the same in sierra leone at the moment .
the united states and great britain have only sent forces to the united nations mission in order to guarantee the safety of the evacuation .
the only solution to the difficulties of the united nations mission , in terms of achieving compliance with the peace agreement , is to entrust the political negotiation to the leaders of liberia and libya , whose record in seeking peace is very doubtful and also very worrying .
the liberation of some of the hostages and the arrest yesterday of sankoh do not put an end to this conflict , but rather they may be a cause for even greater concern .
only clear and decisive action by the international community as a whole can put an end to it : the arms embargo ; the control of diamond trafficking ; the deployment of a rapid intervention force , under the mandate of the united nations ; and the prosecution of the perpetrators of crimes against humanity , the savage attacks against civilians , against international peace and security as well as against the united nations forces .
the european union must therefore support all these types of measures , within the framework of the cfsp .
mr president , during the sierra leone debate in december , i , together with a few other delegates , warned against the risks involving the lome peace agreement .
his strategy is very much akin to that of his godfather , charles taylor , in neighbouring liberia , who , by means of terror , forces the population to vote for him in the forthcoming presidential elections and establishes a new mafia state in the heart of africa ' s diamond industry .
the un peacekeeping force , mainly comprising ill-trained third-world troops , is in danger of heading for a fiasco similar to those back in somalia , rwanda and srebrenica .
it is a good sign that the rebel leader was arrested yesterday and that more than 200 un peacekeeping troops were released over the past couple of days .
more than anything , however , an embargo should be imposed on diamonds smuggled illegally from the country , estimated at usd 60 million annually , which is what is at stake for the rebels in their warfare .
i will call for a ban on these precious stones , which are stained with blood from thousands of innocent citizens , in my own country , belgium .
mr president , given the threats once again faced by the people of sierra leone , when they still have vivid memories of the horror and barbarity they have suffered at the hands of the ruf , we cannot content ourselves with simply condemning the events which are recurring .
let us remember that amongst the objectives of the common foreign policy are the maintenance of peace and the respect for human rights , principles which are being totally disregarded today in sierra leone .
this parliament must therefore urge the member states to support the call of the secretary-general of the united nations so that the deployment of a rapid intervention force may proceed in order to re-establish stability in sierra leone and thereby contribute to preventing the danger of a new civil war which today hangs over that country .
however , our commitment must not end with this call .
the best tribute we could pay to those people who , through that declaration , sowed the seed which has borne such abundant fruit in terms of peace and well-being , would be to commit ourselves to the cause of that beleaguered country , to decisively help the people of sierra leone to re-establish peace and , through peace , the full respect for human rights and the possibility of economic development which will lead it out of poverty and allow it finally to live in dignity .
politically speaking , in europe , mr chris patten and mr solana are two people from the european union whom , in the event of foreign security conflicts , we can call on to use their political resourcefulness to both intervene in the region and to support the un .
with everything which has been said about diamond trafficking and the halting of other dealings which finance the local war , and with everything which has been said about the need to intervene , what we need at the end of the day is a political solution .
mr president , commissioner , any woman or man who , at any time in the course of the last few months , has bought any diamonds must have felt concerned that these might have come from sierra leone or angola and must have wondered whether , in buying them , they had financed the mutilation of children or the drugging of child soldiers or had supported the abduction of the latter from unicef ' s rehabilitation camps .
the other thing we should learn from this is that the lome peace agreement was imposed from outside by outsiders and was totally unworkable .
as with the oil of congo-brazzaville , angola or nigeria and the mineral resources of chad , niger or the democratic republic of the congo , and as in the latter generally or in angola , liberia and sierra leone , the causes are indeed economic and the fight for control of the diamond-producing areas is the basis and reason for this continuing conflict .
however , the sierra leone army and its militias should also come in for criticism .
we are right to condemn liberia and burkina faso for their involvement in the arms trade and the recycling of diamonds .
we remain convinced that the lome agreement still offers the best chance for lasting peace in sierra leone .
the commission is aware of the reports concerning the involvement of neighbouring countries , in particular burkina faso and liberia , in the smuggling of diamonds and in providing support to the rebels in sierra leone .
the commission stresses the role to be played by regional organisations , for example ecowas , in the prevention of conflicts .
the commission is financing with edf regional funds the ecowas conflict-prevention mechanism , which could provide an appropriate channel for dialogue on this question .
as regards humanitarian assistance , through echo we are continuing to finance programmes in support of displaced and refugee communities through international ngos .
since the beginning of 1999 , echo has provided some eur 14m of assistance , covering the supply of medical aid , therapeutic feeding , water and sanitation and psychosocial support to children affected by war .
this month the commission will be seeking approval for a new eur 12m programme of assistance to sierra leone , principally covering refugees and the internally displaced .
this programme will concentrate on providing support first to refugees in neighbouring guinea and liberia , second to internally displaced populations and , thirdly , to women and children affected by the war and , of course , the amputees .
for me the most interesting point to come out of this debate was not just the expressions of concern about the situation in sierra leone - one would expect that - but the number of honourable members who have expressed very clearly and cogently their views on the diamond trade .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken at 6 p.m .
the resolution sends out a powerful message .
the parties have to get round the table and reach a reasonable solution that will last .
this legitimate interest should not interfere with the work that has already been carried out by the indian and norwegian governments whose representatives have been engaged for some time now in the difficult and sensitive task of brokering negotiations .
i know that in spite of the dreadful atrocities that have been committed against the civil population and against members of successive administrations , the sri lankan government at the highest levels is willing to enter into negotiations and is setting no conditions .
we must all recognise the overriding importance of maintaining the territorial integrity of sri lanka .
the international community , including the eu , should be ready to provide substantial material support in due course for whatever solution is worked out and to assist the economic and social reconstruction of the country after so many years of conflict .
this is a scourge which affects us all .
inevitably , the people most effected and most helpless in these situations are the nationals of the target country who have fled the conflict and are trying to lead new lives in europe .
these people are most vulnerable to threats and intimidation from organisations acting on behalf of terrorists such as the tamil tigers .
this situation must change .
the issue of the place of the tamils in sri lanka is a long-standing problem dating back to at least the year of independence in 1948 .
these are well documented by organisations such as amnesty and the us department of state in its 1999 country report .
it is clear that thousands of people have been displaced within sri lanka .
thousands more have sought asylum and the whole population lives in fear of violence .
the resolution is clear .
northern ireland is a clear example of the difficulties of such a process , but also the possibilities .
the situation would also be helped by agreement between the sri lankan political parties themselves and we welcome the efforts of the norwegian and other governments and feel that the commonwealth could have a very valuable role to play in this situation .
mr president , this is an historic day and an historic debate because , after 17 years of war in sri lanka , the european parliament for the first time is actually debating how to bring peace to this war-torn island .
in 1948 , when sri lanka obtained independence , it was one of the most prosperous countries in south asia .
forty-eight years later , that beautiful island of sri lanka has been smashed by a terrorist group now recognised as the most powerful terrorist organisation in the world .
there are four million tamils in sri lanka and there are 15 million sinhalese .
i ask member states to proscribe this terrorist organisation and to help build peace and stability in sri lanka and strongly support the initiative currently being taken by the norwegian and indian governments .
mr president , here we are again witnessing a conflict between two diametrically opposed parties .
on the other hand , in the same geographical area , we have also witnessed another conflict , the conflict of east timor and , with far too great a delay , parliament declared itself in favour of the independence of the eastern part of the island of timor .
the people decided their future and , although this involved fighting , conflict and so forth , succeeded in obtaining what they wanted .
mr president , i yield to no one in my desire for peace in sir lanka and in my condemnation of all violence .
i know that tamil people need 11 pages of documents just to travel from batticaloa in the east to the capital , colombo .
and like everyone here in this parliament , and all european journalists , i have been unable to go to jaffna recently , nor have i seen any television coverage of the battle at elephant pass .
this is a government whose defence budget has risen by 11 % in a year and which , one day , will have to answer allegations of involvement in the assassination of leading tamil figures and other human rights abuses .
let us have a peace for all sri lankans , based on citizens ' rights , humanity and in which government resources are directed at building communities , not helping to destroy them .
mr president , the commission is as concerned as honourable members about the tragic and dramatic civil war which has been continuing for the past 17 years , a civil war which seriously affects the whole population of sri lanka .
it is salutary to recall that over 60 000 people have been killed during the course of this conflict - people in both ethnic groups .
we appreciate the efforts being made in sri lanka to reach a peaceful solution to the conflict but we also reiterate , as i am sure all honourable members would , our concerns for the respect of the basic rules of international humanitarian law .
i should like to say in passing that i would like to express my own appreciation of the role played by the norwegian government , which regularly reminds us by its behaviour on the international stage what we are all missing in the european union on account of the norwegian people ' s referendum decision .
the presidency declaration also rightly called on the government to lift as soon as possible the restrictions on civil liberties and press freedom , which have been introduced under the emergency regulations .
as for our support for rehabilitation in the north and east of the island , a viable political solution has to be found and a measure of peace established before we could consider a major role in this process .
the european commission will continue to provide emergency humanitarian aid to populations affected by the conflict .
through our delegation in colombo , we are following closely the impact of the situation on the civilian population and we are in permanent contact with the icrc , the unhcr and the main ngos .
alas , 12 , 13 years later , the violence continues .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken at 6 p.m .
mr president , commissioner , we must be very careful as europeans about taking issue with separatist movements of the kind being discussed here .
nevertheless , it is , of course , our task to create peace and stability in this area , and in particular to take action against all those criminals who , on a political pretext , have , in the most appalling way , kidnapped and maltreated innocent tourists who are citizens of the european union .
it is the case of equatorial guinea , one of so many african countries which have undergone a very poor transition from the colonial era , during which former colonial relationships , on the one hand , and the ambitions of other member states of the union to extend their area of influence , on the other , have prevented the support necessary and conducive to the establishment of a genuine democratic system .
in 1999 there were general elections to the guinean parliament , during which the international observers noted that human rights , democratic guarantees and freedom of information had been violated .
the same situation may now reoccur during the elections on 28 may , which is why , as this resolution states , we demand the appropriate intervention of the european union , in order to guarantee that democratic elections take place on this occasion .
mr president , the reason for this resolution has already been explained : in equatorial guinea , the political and social situation is still extremely serious .
secondly , the population endures harsh conditions of poverty .
the government of president teodoro obiang has failed to comply with each and every promise of democratisation which it made to the international community .
with regard to the municipal elections of 28 may , there are grounds for concern , because to date there has been no guarantee of any democratic conditions for these elections .
given this situation , as the resolution we have presented indicates , we demand that the government of equatorial guinea initiate a genuine transition to democracy , which we believe could begin by making these municipal elections free elections .
the union must exert pressure in this respect , and not lower its guard or accept any more false promises from president obiang .
article 5 of the lome convention obliges the union and the member states to demand democracy and human rights in equatorial guinea .
mr president , the calling of municipal elections by president obiang should constitute a step forward on the path to democratisation in that country and , therefore , we should take a positive of view of it .
even more so if we bear in mind that the president of guinea is one of the signatories of the cairo declaration and the action plan which accompanies it , which recognises the need to consolidate democratic principles , based on the right of all citizens to choose their leaders freely by means of free elections and , consequently , also the need to ensure that elections are transparent and free , and to adopt the necessary means for their effective observation .
however , the experience of previous elections , during which serious irregularities and a total lack of transparency were noted , as well the continuing lack of democratic guarantees in guinea , requires not only that we observe very carefully how the coming elections are held , but also that we demand , forcefully , that president obiang adopts the necessary measures to guarantee fair play in these elections .
they could also lead to a rapprochement with the european union and the granting of the aid which the european union was prepared to give in the event that democracy was respected .
therefore , as a parliament , we have the obligation to exert pressure on president obiang and demand that he allows these elections to be held in accordance with democratic principles .
the european union must , through all possible channels , demand that the government of equatorial guinea free all political prisoners and end the coercion suffered by the democratic forces , in order to guarantee that the coming municipal elections bring hope to the people of guinea and lead to fruitful relations between guinea and the european union .
iran ( press code ) the struggle in iran for reform and freedom is of great interest .
there have been considerable reasons for optimism in the election of president khatami and the overwhelming vote for reformist candidates in the february elections but , as human rights watch notes , the struggle to control the press is , in many ways , the struggle to control the future direction of the islamic republic as a whole .
the very success of the reformist agenda seems to have provoked a backlash by the conservative reactionary forces and an attempt to punish the majority who voted in february for reform .
the name ' bahar ' clearly refers to a political programme and undeniably supports president khatami ' s reform policy .
the reform process in iran is at risk .
burma mr president , it is an awkward situation , this tenth anniversary of the elections of the nld in burma .
these relations are too important for this .
yesterday , we saw the arrest of 95 members of the nld and the situation in burma has become untenable .
one of the key things we need to look at is the role of some european multinational oil companies , in particular the french-belgium company , total fina .
the british government has actually called on premier oil to withdraw from burma .
the french government should follow the example of the british government .
it is unacceptable that european multinational companies are investing in and backing up a system where large-scale gross violations of human rights are taking place .
when it comes to sanctions , we really need to answer the call that we should implement economic sanctions against the spdc and that we should be ending all links between europe and burma based on trade , investment and , in particular , tourism .
it is unacceptable that we should be investing in tourism in a situation where gross human rights violations are taking place , where people ' s lives and liberty have basically been denied .
thousands of people have been killed and hundreds of thousands of people have fled the country and are living in camps in thailand , malaysia and india .
burma should not receive any better treatment from the international community than south africa and chile did back in the eighties .
this resolution looks at the security and safety arrangements ahead of euro 2000 so that decent football-loving supporters from across europe can go to , watch and come away from football games this summer without fear or concern for their safety : a fairly apt thing to call for considering the recent events in copenhagen .
however , i do understand that there are some queries about the question of the suitability of the charleroi stadium and its ability to safely host the england versus germany game on 17 june .
this stand , like all the others , will be full to capacity on 17 june .
i understand the regional pride of many members from belgium and i do not question that much time is being spent by the organisers of euro 2000 looking into the safety and security aspects of the competition .
mr president , i hope there will be a great football match on 17 june between england and germany .
for example , paragraph 2 of the motion is wrong .
it is therefore completely wrong to talk of regional rivalries .
finally , in the context of euro 2000 , there is an additional requirement that the stadium must be approved by the european union and uefa .
our dutch colleague , mr van den berg , also agrees as he asked me to say that in this case he has witnessed , in addition to a responsible attitude from the belgians , ... ...
mr president , there are a number of advantages to this text .
i must also point out , however , that , for two years now , in both the netherlands and belgium , the sporting , political and police authorities have been preparing in a professional manner for euro 2000 and , in practical terms , huge investments have been made .
of course , but then there is always a risk .
the belgian authorities have given authorisation for the charleroi stadium to be used .
paragraph 3 , which indicates that the king baudouin stadium in brussels might be used , is wrong .
mr president , there is no question in my mind that we all want to see the eradication of hooliganism in football at a european level and globally .
the issue must , therefore , be discussed at a european level , and we should guard against becoming embroiled in local discussions on the capacity and safety of specific stadiums , wherever they might be .
i welcome the dialogue under way now between the commission and sports and football clubs on how matters could improve .
mr president , we must take these issues of hooliganism seriously .
the motion is good in that it indicates that adequate safety measures must be taken .
it would have been much better to point out - and i would like to do so on behalf of many ppe-de colleagues - that , first of all , safety is an essential good over which extreme care is to be taken and for which many efforts are being made with regard to euro 2000 .
i do hope that this match finishes in a sportsmanlike way and i hope that the belgians will not just win here but also a number of matches during euro 2000 .
the content of the current resolution overlooks the causes of hooliganism , whether or not consciously .
this parliament should not be discussing safety during one particular euro 2000 match under pressure from what i assume is a portion of british public opinion .
the commission shares the honourable members ' concern for the health and safety of the hostages in jolo and basilan .
we are following events in mindanao and the neighbouring islands closely .
we are concerned at the escalation of political violence that has taken place after the suspension of the peace negotiations between the government of the philippines and various armed groups .
we believe that only an early resumption of peace negotiations , as requested by the leaders of civil society and of religious groups , offers prospects for a lasting improvement of the situation in mindanao .
an official request for an electoral monitoring mission was sent on 2 may by the equatorial guinea government to commissioner nielson .
the request from the government of guinea-bissau arrived very late and , in keeping with our guidelines , electoral observation missions should be prepared at an early stage in the electoral process so that we can ensure that the process is accurate and fair .
it is relevant that the opposition parties in equatorial guinea have contested the electoral lists and have already decided to boycott the ballot .
we therefore consider that , at this stage , the presence of international observers would not only fail to improve the quality and the transparency of the local elections , there is also a very real risk that this mission could be misused by local authorities as a way to legitimise an unsatisfactory process .
however , we intend to involve ourselves in promoting the process of democratisation in equatorial guinea .
on iran , the commission fully shares parliament ' s concern over the lack of freedom of expression there .
in the comprehensive dialogue between the european union and iran , questions regarding human rights , including press freedom , are regularly raised by the commission .
we deplore the continued violation of human rights by the burmese military regime .
we have strongly supported the eu common position on burma and the decision of the april 2000 general affairs council to strengthen that common position .
we use every opportunity to press our asian partners to urge , what is called - with a touch of george orwell - the " state peace and development council " to enter into a substantial dialogue with the democratically elected representatives and the ethnic minorities with a view to arriving at a mutually agreed internal solution to the problems of burma and to respect for international human rights standards there .
lastly , on football hooliganism : the responsibility for ensuring adequate safety for spectators and players during the euro 2000 matches lies with the relevant national authorities and the relevant football associations .
firstly , we want parliament to recall that , last june , the justice and home affairs council requested member states to step up cooperation in order to prevent and control violence and disturbances in connection with international football matches .
secondly , the community ' s programme for police and customs cooperation finances a project prepared between the police authorities of the netherlands and belgium in which police forces from other member states participate .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken at 6 p.m .
thank you , mr sturdy .
the matter of football hooliganism was under the human rights matters .
mr president , i quite understand that you want to avoid a long debate now , but i do not think it was clear when we decided on this this morning that the urgencieswould simply go by the board .
we were going to discuss guatemala .
everyone is entitled to protection from those seeking political and economic gain from discrimination .
the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left has opted in favour of maximum reinforcement of the position of the victims of discrimination and against all attempts to prejudice this protection .
mr president , i voted for the proposal for the race directive .
i did so very willingly and , particularly in my capacity as representative of the pensioners ' party , i am glad to have been able to use my vote to contribute to the adoption of this directive .
the effect of such a provision would be all the more devastating as the assumed discrimination could be ' indirect discrimination ' which occurs , according to article 2 ( 2 ) ( b ) , ' where an apparently neutral provision , criterion or practice is liable to affect adversely a person or a group of persons of a particular racial or ethnic origin ' .
the european parliament report adds to this in all respects .
however , two interventions by mr desir highlighted that the texts , at least in the french version , contained provisions totally contrary to the principles of international law and , in particular , to the european convention on human rights .
if retained in the final version of the directive , this article would , for the first time , constitute a legal basis for discrimination in the right to work based on ' a characteristic related to racial or ethnic origin ' .
we were anxious to accompany our vote with this reservation which also applies to the totally inappropriate use in several articles , in the french version at least , of the word ' race ' .
for example , in my own region , the west midlands , we have recently seen some worrying instances of racist violence .
i am also glad that the legislation takes account of the notion of " indirect discrimination " , where apparently neutral provisions can have an adverse effect on a person or a group of a particular race or ethnic origin .
right-wing extremism is increasing , not just in austria , but throughout europe .
this directive provides some of the most effective anti-racism legislation that europe has ever seen , and the most effective piece of race relations legislation to affect my own member state since the 1976 race relations act .
minority groups must be given a greater stake in europe .
we must tackle racism wherever and whenever it occurs .
we were delighted to do so , because the european parliament is hereby complying with its task in connection with implementing article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam .
according to article 13 of the treaty , the european parliament is merely to be heard on this matter .
we have nonetheless been unable to vote in favour of those amendments directly affecting matters which come within the sphere of the member states ' criminal law .
but what about all the other protective considerations listed in article 13 of the treaty ?
we are concerned that , by only proceeding on the basis of these two considerations in the present directive , the eu will , in practice , create a hierarchy of possible grounds for discrimination .
the portuguese presidency is to be congratulated for their readiness to put this matter on the council ' s agenda .
with mr deprez and mr de clercq i tabled an amendment to the title of the directive .
the concept of origin is fundamental as discrimination may relate not only to the current status of an individual but also to his origin and descent .
to conclude , the buitenweg report is inspired by a proactive and progressive approach which i have supported .
the risk of a resurgence of the neo-fascist and racist hydra requires close vigilance from us , more so now than ever before .
trafficking in women ( continuation ) the next item is the continuation of the debate on trafficking in women .
mr president , commissioner , i would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the magnificent work she has carried out on such a serious problem .
the trafficking in women is having a very great impact , especially in the border countries of the european union , where mafias are forming which deceive women with promises of employment and a better life , and which lead them eventually into prostitution and , in many cases , into situations which can only be described as slavery .
this is a phenomenon related to our current society , in which immigration is beginning to cause a serious problem , since we are seeing significant movements of people who are seeking the kind of welfare society which we enjoy in the majority , or practically all , of the european union countries .
this situation requires a series of new measures , most importantly aiding victims and prosecuting the people involved in the trafficking in women and children - since it is not just a problem for women , but children as well - for sexual exploitation .
amongst the measures proposed in this report are basically aid to victims and the request that member states amend their legislation in a way which will allow quicker and more coordinated action amongst the various countries in order to resolve this very serious problem .
the victims do not only require material aid , but also legal assistance - because we are generally talking about people with no documentation , with no options and who are living in fear and need help - which , at the same time , protects their identity and guarantees that they will not suffer even worse problems if they return to their countries of origin .
the different countries of the european union must harmonise their legislation in this respect and implement sufficient measures to help these victims .
the trade in sex is increasing at an alarming rate .
the european women ' s lobby reports that only 0.036 per cent of the eu ' s budget for the year 2000 has been set aside for issues of equality and that only a fraction of this fraction goes on measures to combat trafficking in women .
there is a lack of legislation , not only in terms of measures to combat the aforesaid mafia , but also in terms of laws to protect the victims .
all but two member states send victims of the trafficking in women back to their countries of origin , in spite of the possibility that their lives may be in danger .
the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities is demanding that the member states provide women who give evidence with protection and refugee status .
we assume that this treaty will contain a clear legal basis for combating all forms of violence against women , including , of course , trafficking in women , and that we shall be devising a common european policy for combating the trade in human beings .
it is a serious matter that we should have this type of trade , because it is often not even adult women who are affected but near-children and very , very young people .
after all , as long as the demand for prostitutes is still there , there will always be women who , enticed by better prospects presented to them , will - often unwittingly - make themselves available as merchandise .
in addition to a sound and generous development policy in order to improve the living conditions of women in our own countries , it is necessary to question the lack of moral standards within our society .
only in this way can trafficking in women be effectively pushed back .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , in 1996 , we more or less got the political go-ahead to tackle trafficking in women at european level , and i am delighted to tell you that the then belgian government played a vital role in bringing about this green light .
but i think we need to ask ourselves whether , after four years of work , europe is sufficiently equipped to be able to fight this trafficking in women effectively .
a second point which is essential to us in this report - and we have been hammering on about this for a while now - is the fact that we need to continue to be committed to the protection of women who are the victims of such types of trafficking .
the body and the human person are not commodities .
a closed border policy prompts immigrants to turn to criminal organisations in order to procure visas or enter the country concerned illegally .
it was proposed that the european union issue temporary residence permits to victims which would be conditional upon the victims giving evidence against the traffickers , but , as yet , italy is the only state to issue permits which are not conditional upon the giving of evidence .
it is our duty to do our part to bring about a radical change in the mentality and culture of our society .
this means promoting policies which support women .
mr president , if we are to discuss trafficking in women , we have to be aware that we are talking about a form of slavery , a modern form of slavery in which the majority of the victims are women subjected to trafficking run by organised crime networks .
the poverty and marginalisation of the women in their countries of origin , the high earnings guaranteed to traffickers and the low risks they incur , and the substantial demand for women for prostitution and other forms of sexual exploitation are the factors behind the growth of this trade .
the tampere european council recently charged the european union to fight against illegal immigration and , amongst other things , against those who profit from the trafficking in human beings .
the contribution of non-governmental organisations in revealing the causes , methods and consequences of the trafficking in women for sexual exploitation , and the support they provide for the victims , has brought about greater awareness of these issues .
the stop and daphne programmes already represent a major contribution of the european union , but we must not stop there .
as the report requests , it will therefore be necessary to establish a legal framework and effective prevention , protection and victim support measures at european level .
on the other hand , the member states and candidate countries must intervene themselves at legislative , administrative and police levels in order to eliminate this crime and , at the same time , increase international cooperation with europol and interpol to fight criminal networks .
the union and the member states currently have no powers whatsoever to intervene efficiently and break up the gangs operating almost undisturbed in our midst and in our neighbourhoods .
i personally advocate therefore that all the strategies used to fight trafficking in and the sexual exploitation of women and children should call for harsh punishment , both for those who profit from the trade in human beings and for those who use the services of prostitutes , as is the case under swedish and canadian law .
women are being held in concentration camps in conditions of true slavery and are being tortured before being forced into prostitution .
before going into the more substantial parts of this subject , i would like to state that the commission remains fully committed to keeping the fight against this degrading form of violation of human rights and human dignity high on the political agenda .
we have proved that in the proposals that we put to the european council of tampere last october .
as several members have already emphasised , preventive and repressive measures , as well as measures to support the victims , together with international cooperation , must be given further encouragement .
i wish first of all to address the matter of improving existing penal law in the member states as regards the criminalisation of traffickers of human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation .
as a starting point in this exercise , we have here the february 1997 instrument , but it has become quite clear that it has its shortcomings .
as i understand , during the hearing in august , the commission will present at the end of this semester a package of proposals on trafficking and the sexual exploitation of women and children .
we have , in my opinion , a firm basis for this in the treaty of amsterdam , the vienna action plan of 1998 and the conclusions of the european council in tampere .
in addition , we need to consider in the drafting exercise horizontal judicial issues such as defining the competent jurisdiction , the rules on extradition and seizure of the proceeds of crime .
the package of proposals that i mentioned before will , therefore , be completed a bit later this year with a proposal for a directive that will cover the issue of temporary residence permits so as to ensure the protection of various victims of trafficking including the victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation .
it is extremely important to couple these two kinds of measures : criminalisation of trafficking and , at the same time , having a proactive policy on promoting the cooperation of the victims with the police and with the judiciary in convicting those who are responsible for such degrading activity .
talking about significant developments in the field of trafficking in women at european level , we also need to take a look at the various activities that are , and have been , supported by the stop programme .
the proposal will , of course , build on experience gained from the first programme .
the programme will allow us , in addition to the stop programme , to help victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation by providing a financial contribution of eur 20 million in the period from 2000 to 2003 .
the commission has , therefore , opened daphne to the candidate countries and will do the same under the stop programme .
finally , the commission has also mobilised other sources of financing to promote both support to local ngos in the candidate countries and prevention campaigns in countries of origin .
in the framework of the new transatlantic agenda and in cooperation with the government of the united states of america , it has , for instance , carried out various information campaigns in poland , ukraine , hungary and bulgaria , to raise an awareness within the population and the public bodies of these countries .
for the future we are exploring the possibility of new campaigns targeting new areas and new countries .
the commission is now actively participating in the work on the draft united nations protocol on trafficking to supplement the draft convention on trans-national organised crime and i sincerely hope that the members of the united nations will be able to adopt this new convention in autumn this year .
this means that we need to be careful when talking about measures such as automatic non-criminalisation of victims of trafficking , possibilities of ngos bringing court action on behalf of the victims and investigative methods in criminal matters .
in other words , we need to be clear about which objectives can be better achieved at european level taking into account the level of cross-border cooperation in place among the member states .
honourable members have an opportunity of adapting what i consider a piece of good work that not only confirms a coherent and multidisciplinary european policy on trafficking but also adds new impetus for further actions which are undoubtedly necessary at european level .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m .
the initiative does not show any strategic vision .
priority is given in the proposal for a regulation to send back foreigners illegally present on the territory of member states under a system of compulsory readmission operating between member states .
the regulation aims to determine which member state is obliged to readmit a third country national in order to implement the agreement in question .
the draft regulation does not debar a member state from sending a foreigner who does not meet the conditions of entry or residence in a member state back to his or her country of origin or another third country .
this provision seems to empower member states to take more severe decisions outside the scope of the proposed regulation .
the proposal is perhaps a way of exercising indirect pressure for the borders of the european union to be fortified .
the regulation permits readmission to another member state to be requested within six months from the time when the authorities of the requesting member state became aware that a third country national may be ( not " is " ) illegally present .
we urgently need to implement the tampere conclusions and devise a common european policy on asylum and immigration based on european humanitarian values and respect for fundamental human rights .
finally , we call on the european commission to take the necessary legislative initiatives on all the issues which touch on immigration and , of course , to define the mutual obligations as between the member states .
we are aware , commissioner , of your personal interest and of the difficulties facing the council and assure you that any initiatives which you may table in this direction will have our undivided support .
furthermore , as mrs karamanou has just said , this represents a programme singularly lacking in solidarity between the member states .
mr president , we are facing a situation which is real problem : the progressive disappearance of internal borders means that non-eu citizens in both legal and illegal situations are moving freely amongst the member states .
my view of the finnish initiative is much less critical than theirs .
i believe we should stress the fact that the finnish initiative was a very significant step forward from the moment it was put on the table , because it led the council to get involved in a very urgent issue .
the thinking behind the finnish initiative means that its proposals no longer have any point , because they have now been fully adopted .
for the reasons which have been expressed , and which i would probably just be repeating : this initiative takes account of one aspect , the most repressive one , but that is only one aspect of the problem .
the rapporteur is absolutely right to point out that this initiative does not take account of questions of procedure , or fundamental guarantees for the procedure , nor does it provide the necessary protection for the fundamental rights of those people who will be caught up in this type of procedure .
finally , it has not been pointed out - and i think it is important that it is - that what we do in this area must be coherent with the member states ' principles regarding readmission of third country nationals .
the ppe has presented two amendments which i hope this house - to take up what the two previous speakers have said - will support in tomorrow ' s vote , thereby sending a political signal , and we ask the commission to present a complete and coherent text sooner rather than later .
i would also like to say on behalf of my group that we fully support the proposal to refer this initiative back .
i would also like to touch upon another problem connected with this , which might perhaps warrant a joint initiative by the member states .
it is all too reminiscent of austria ' s initiative on that famous first day of austria ' s presidency .
i regret that the council ' s and parliament ' s time has been used in this way .
mr president , the karamanou report asks the european parliament to reject the finnish proposal to establish , within the european union , a system for returning illegal immigrants to the member state responsible .
according to this initiative , a member state which arrests illegal immigrants in its territory could return them to the member state through which they entered , with the expectation that the latter would probably return them to the third country from which they originally came .
thirdly , it shows the usefulness - whatever the previous speakers may have said - of the member states ' right of initiative which the treaty of amsterdam retained as a transitional measure in matters relating to immigration and the movement of people .
in these areas , it is important that the national governments , which are still closer to the people than the commission , should retain a full right to make proposals and , of course , decide on these .
however , this initiative is disliked by the federalists who would prefer a less intergovernmental and more community-based approach , in other words granting more power to the commission and the european parliament .
mr president , the commission would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report .
so the commission can subscribe to the approach of the rapporteur and , apparently , the large majority in parliament , in the sense that this initiative , as it stands - and i am not passing judgement on the intention behind it - is unacceptable .
that concludes the debate .
madam president , a gross mistake has found its way into item 34 of the minutes of yesterday ' s sitting concerning the adoption of the resolution on euro 2000 .
mr sturdy , as you know , and as the quaestors point out in the memo which you have received , checks will be carried out at parliament ' s three places of work , that is to say , strasbourg , brussels and luxembourg .
therefore we should do something about it now and not just talk about it .
i would like to inform and at the same time reassure the members who have just spoken on this important and serious matter .
in fact , if the college of quaestors had not ordered an air quality check in these buildings , the problem would not even have been mentioned today in plenary .
this check has therefore been carried out and , as you know , it proved negative on two points .
we shall wait for the results of these checks and we shall take the necessary steps in accordance with the precautionary principle .
however , given that this is a very delicate area , i think we must listen to the recording of the sitting first in order to see whether these changes are really necessary .
during yesterday ' s vote on the buitenweg report , we witnessed some very serious goings-on in this parliament .
madam president , due to the absence of two dozen members and the request for the quorum which we would have established without any difficulty , our group yesterday chose to refrain from preventing the buitenweg report from being put to the vote when this would have been quite possible .
mr duff , yesterday a vote was taken in the house on the buitenweg report , as a result of which , the karamanou and sorensen reports have to be put to the vote this morning .
this is also the reason why mrs buitenweg , who is otherwise requesting a quorum on this , is nobly expressing her reservation because she knows that voting on these reports this morning is the fair thing to do .
i would therefore urge andrew to withdraw his request , since mrs buitenweg and others want a vote to be taken on the sorensen and karamanou reports this morning .
madam president , the issue of requests for the quorum to be tested does not have anything to do with whether we work in strasbourg rather than in brussels .
personally , i would prefer to work in strasbourg , but i consider that if we have decided to work on fridays - and this seems to me to be the issue here - then on fridays the quorum needs to be present .
i think it is odd , to say the least , that our colleagues should behave in this way .
by my calculations , 242 people voted on that report including about 35 members of the ppe , and they should be congratulated on supporting that excellent report yesterday .
mr duff , do you uphold your request ?
we shall then see if 32 members join you .
madam president , should these reports be serious then they certainly deserve a quorum .
very well , so are there 32 members to support this request ? ( 24 members rose ) the request is therefore withdrawn .
if we want to reject finland ' s initiative , we must vote against it .
madam president , this is a very complicated process as mrs karamanou has already explained .
relating to amendment no 10 madam president , with regard to this amendment , there is a linguistic problem .
the french version contains the word " delit " , whereas this is written as " crime " in the english version .
the oral amendment alters amendment no 5 to paragraph 19 as follows : we want to keep " stresses the vital role played by ngos " and then the words in bold in the original amendment are to be altered thus : " which may also include humanitarian organisations in europe that have set themselves the task of receiving and supporting the victims " .
the true responsibility for trafficking in women lies with the men who take advantage of them in europe - in the order of 180 million people , according to my calculations .
the point i am trying to make in this explanation of vote can also be found on page 11 , line 14 of the report , and it is the only line out of the 722 making up the report which reaches the crux of the matter : it states that we must fight for " information and awareness-raising activities with a view to reducing the demand side " .
this must be concerned with offering poor countries the means to develop , so that they can give their inhabitants the chance of a decent life : this process has an economic facet , but also in particular cultural and educational aspects .
non-nafo vessels the next item is the report ( a5-0101 / 2000 ) by mr varela suanzes-carpegna , on behalf of the committee on fisheries , on the proposal for a council regulation laying down certain control measures in respect of vessels flying the flag of non-contracting parties to the north-west atlantic fisheries organisation ( nafo ) ( com ( 1999 ) 570 - c5-0041 / 2000 - 1999 / 0231 ( cns ) ) .
madam president , commissioner , regional fisheries organisations , which regulate fishing operations outside the 200 miles of exclusive economic zones , play a fundamental role in the regulation and rational management of fishery resources in international waters .
as a result , the european union must strengthen its presence in such regional organisations , in those that already exist and in those that may be created in the future .
the european commission needs to have an effective presence , both in terms of human and technical resources , in all these organisations and , as i said , in those that may be created in the future .
the regulation we are now considering represents an attempt to incorporate decisions adopted by the organisation in 1997 , 1998 and 1999 into community legislation to make our internal measures more effective .
what we therefore need , at the end of the day , is a coherent fishing policy , not just in our waters , but worldwide , where all parties act in concert and cannot play their own game .
the nafo regulations - and their assimilation in a unified system - which control and , if necessary , sanction the non-contracting parties and their frequently stateless vessels and fishing , are therefore the most important matter dealt with in the regulation .
the proposal for a regulation under discussion today , on control measures for vessels from countries which are non- contracting parties to nafo , is very much linked to this sense of responsibility that is so necessary in the fisheries sector .
lastly , it is extremely important that countries with vessels operating in nafo waters are contracting parties , just as it is important that the european community is also a contracting party to regional organisations being set up in the south atlantic and beyond the area the community fleet currently operates in .
the reality of the situation is that " vessels from non-contracting parties " usually means vessels flying flags of convenience or flags obtained from countries which have open registers .
the big problem is that these countries selling flags of convenience have no intention of enforcing these rules , and that is the main reason why they appeal to these unscrupulous shipowners who can do what they like .
many of these vessels have been active in the nafo area , but that is not the only place where they operate .
very large numbers have also been fishing for tuna in the atlantic where the regional organisation is icat .
there is no way of enforcing the law .
by far the worst , of course , and not surprising , is spain with 116 vessels , but of course they are not alone .
the spanish fleet is distributed across a very long list including belize , honduras , the netherlands antilles , panama and many others .
the only place which has more of these flags of convenience is taiwan , with 117 , which just beats spain into first place .
for the past two weeks , greenpeace has had a ship in the middle of the south atlantic where they have found plenty of vessels catching tuna , flying these flags of convenience .
mr president , i too should like to welcome this proposal for a regulation from the commission which improves upon certain control measures within nafo .
this is why i must applaud the fact that this proposal aims at incorporating into community legislation three nafo recommendations on controlling activities of vessels of non-contracting parties , and in particular non-contracting parties whose activities are , without a shadow of a doubt , much more suspect than those of any community fleet .
if it is indeed true that the proposal covers nafo ' s latest recommendations on sightings and transhipments from its annual meetings in 1998 and 1999 , it is also true to say that this represents nothing more than a reworking of the 1997 recommendation , which is only now being taken into account .
besides this now traditional complaint , this proposal for a regulation represents an opportunity to debate the real problem of flags of convenience and discuss what the european union is doing to deal with them .
the european union is responsible for taking the lead in the fight against such harmful forms of fishing and must be capable of putting forward its own alternatives .
as you know , the aim of the regulation is to implement at community level a very important nafo scheme intended to counteract non-contracting party activities which risk undermining the effectiveness of nafo conservation measures .
in this context , i should stress that the community , as a contracting party to nafo , has every interest in measures that help to resolve problems caused by states which do not discharge their cooperation and conservation obligations under international law .
amendment no 1 does not seem to be necessary .
what is more , this wording is drawn from the language used in other legal texts , for instance the council decision concerning the approval by the community of the fao compliance agreement and the council regulation laying down certain control measures in respect of vessels flying the flag of non-contracting parties to the convention on the conservation of antarctic marine living resources .
the debate is closed .
the debate is closed .
the governing regulation no 850 / 98 entered into force on 1 january of this year , but it must obviously continue to be periodically adapted to incorporate any new data and scientific innovations which may emerge .
we also feel that reducing the size of carpetshells from 40 to 38 millimetres , which has been widely called for by the sector , is a very positive step .
these measures are a step in the right direction .
mr president , we are now discussing the fifth amendment in two years to the regulation on technical measures for the conservation of juveniles of marine organisms .
these millimetres are important because when the landing size was increased to the current 40 millimetres , this caused serious problems for women who harvest shellfish in my region , galicia , as it did for the whole marketing sector and for consumers themselves .
environmental conditions in densely populated areas where the carpetshell breeds and reproduces , such as in the estuaries of galicia , do not allow them to reach the 40 millimetres required by the regulation which we are going to change today .
the truth is that 80 % of naturally produced carpetshells fall short of the current size requirement .
in places where molluscs are most abundant - and i am thinking of the ferrol and arosa estuaries - the size of carpetshells does not exceed 36 or 38 millimetres .
carpetshells measuring 40 millimetres are neither produced , sold nor consumed , simply because there are none .
this house must realise that , by drawing up these technical measures , we are trying to protect juveniles , by allowing them to reach a certain size and breeding age , whilst at the same time trying to reduce unnecessary yields .
the only thing we hope , commissioner , is that we do not have to review the regulation again within a year , because this would mean that both we and the european commission had once again made a mistake in our calculations .
up until now , measures have consisted of reductions in quotas , minimum mesh sizes for nets and fishing bans in certain periods .
however , while these measures will hopefully contribute to improving the state of fishery resources , i am concerned that the commission has not got it right in certain other areas : for example , in the recent report on the implementation of magps and the drastic cuts that it calls for in some fleets which is of grave concern to scots and other fishermen .
the commission must get conservation measures right , but i am not convinced that magps are the way to do that .
mr president , i should like to express my gratitude for the fact that my suggestions were taken into account when this report was drawn up and , in particular , the recommendation that the size of deepwater rose shrimps be set at 22 millimetres rather than at the 24 millimetres proposed by the commission .
although i think that the commission ' s proposal is not unreasonable , we have to bear in mind that the size limit is being set for the first time and that this species is an important part of the catches of certain fleets in southern spain and portugal where , until now , they have been fishing for shrimps without any size restrictions .
in a species that does not grow very large , 2 millimetres is a great deal when trying to determine whether the profitability of some very small-scale fisheries will be increased or decreased .
mr president , firstly , can i congratulate the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee on fisheries on his report on the revision of the regulations on the conservation of fishery resources and technical measures for the protection of juvenile marine organisms .
i therefore hope the council will be able , after this debate , to reach a speedy agreement .
it is important for the conservation of sea birds .
mr president , i should just like to say that i hope the conference of presidents will take serious note of the numbers - or rather lack of numbers - of members in the chamber voting on that very important report .
you all know that competition law has been one of the most important objectives of the european union - and therefore of the european commission - since the founding treaties came into existence .
a regulation of this kind has existed in the field of insurance since 1992 , and expires in 2003 .
when there is one large and 20 small insurers , then the large one may not have more than 10 per cent of the market share for the exemption agreement to be accepted .
all in all , i can say that parliament is satisfied with this interim report and that it expects the commission to make continuous progress on this matter and achieve an end result for the insurance industry within the framework of the exemption regulations in force , all of which expire in 2002 and 2003 , including for other areas .
rather than adopting hundreds of individual exemption decisions , the commission adopted in 1992 a block exemption regulation granting exemption , with conditions , to agreements between insurance undertakings in four categories : agreements concerning the joint calculation of risk premiums , those concerning standard policy conditions , co-insurance and reinsurance , pooling arrangements and agreements adopting standards for safety equipment .
the current regulation expires on 31 march 2003 and a new regulation will be necessary .
the report produced by the commission on 12 may 1999 , which it was pursuant to article 8 of the council enabling regulation , was the first step in the process leading to the adoption of a new regulation .
the next step in the consultation will be a hearing organised by the commission on 28 june of this year for an exchange of views between all those who have submitted comments on the report on the regulation .
mr president , last sunday in bergamo , my native town , i held a meeting on insurance and compensation for damages , which mr langen discussed in his report .
i therefore call for measures to be included in the regulation that will put a stop to this injustice .
i just wanted to ask whether mrs van der laan is here or have i missed her as well ?
the european parliament must do what it can to avert this catastrophe .
yesterday mr lannoye moved to table the motion by 185 members to set up a temporary committee of inquiry into echelon in accordance with rule 151 of the rules of procedure , which was rejected by a majority at the conference of presidents ' meeting on 13 april , for a resolution by parliament .
mr president , i do not know if the problem lies in the wording , but this does not appear to answer the question i was asking .
in fact , on tomorrow ' s agenda , the conference of presidents has tabled its proposal for the establishment of a temporary committee , not a committee of inquiry .
mr president , i think that it is quite reasonable to propose two votes at the same time , but i insist that there should be two votes : firstly , a vote on the principle of establishing a committee of inquiry , which was rejected by the conference of presidents , and there may have to be a second vote if agreement is reached on establishing a temporary committee , which , i must point out , serves a quite different purpose .
these are two different problems and a close look at the rules of procedure will show that rule 151 does not provide for a temporary committee : it only mentions a committee of inquiry .
decision on urgent procedure the next item is the vote on the motion for urgent procedure with regard to the proposal for a council regulation [ com ( 1999 ) 576 - c5-0280 / 1999 - 1999 / 0236 ( cns ) ] amending regulation ( eec ) no 1251 / 1999 establishing a support system for producers of certain arable crops to include flax and hemp grown for fibre and the proposal for a council regulation [ com ( 1999 ) 576 - c5-0281 / 1999 - 1999 / 0237 ( cns ) ] on the common organisation of the market in flax and hemp grown for fibre .
i should like to reiterate my express thanks in this connection to the commission and commissioner fischler , who has been most cooperative in this matter .
the chairman of the committee on agriculture has tabled a procedural motion .
secondly : next year will mark the tenth year without any material progress with the legal status of european political parties or life breathed into the treaty .
thirdly : we would remind the house of the important preliminary work carried out in the tsatsos report adopted in 1996 and the kuhne report of 13 april 2000 .
we want to give them this opportunity and we want , above all , to ensure that , in all aspects of support for european political parties , we have a transparent situation and clear legal conditions which can be presented as such to the public .
this will serve the credibility not only of the parties but also of the european union and the european parliament .
mr president , commissioner , i agree with the words of chairman poettering on this joint initiative and , if you will allow me , i would like first of all to remind you that ten years ago we achieved jointly - on that occasion we were the christian democratic party , the liberals and the socialists - the inclusion in the treaty of maastricht of the article recognising the personality of the political parties .
we want to resolve this problem which is not just a question of a legal vacuum but a constitutional problem for the european union .
we have made certain useful suggestions so that we may find our way out of a situation which is not only unsatisfactory but also negative for the development of democracy in europe .
we have taken an initiative across the various political groups , which we presented in february to president prodi .
as a matter of law there has been a reference to political parties in the treaty for more than seven years now .
it states that the parties are a factor for integration , they contribute to the formation of european awareness and are a vital element in the democratic life of the union and the political debate of the union .
the question is : can the commission take an initiative which breathes life and operational content into the aspirations of article 191 ?
that really is what the debate is about in this house today .
we are asking for your assistance to ensure that this vital element , as the treaty states , in the democratic life and political debate of the union is validated by statute .
mr president , according to the treaty , parties which contribute to informing the citizens about events which take place within the union and the european parliament are political parties , and therefore , by their political activities , they contribute to the development of a european awareness and european knowledge .
they contribute to forming a european awareness and to expressing the political will of the citizens of the union " .
nevertheless , as i have just said , as important as this text is , it is merely declaratory .
firstly , the requirement for speed : things have perhaps dragged on for too long over a period of ten years , without any solution being found .
the first , which was recommended in the ferber report , would be to draw up a legislative proposal on the basis of the current treaty .
in this framework , article 308 could be an operational measure , at least in a provisional phase , linking it to article 191 , in content .
but , and i am not saying ' but ' in a restrictive way , it is simply an expression of the concern for legal security that i mentioned , you know as well as we do that the use of article 308 is cause for quite widespread reservation and that , in any event , it requires unanimous agreement following consultation of the european parliament .
we shall do so in light of the discussion which will take place in july , by working on and using the optimum legal combination of articles 308 and 191 .
the commission has therefore responded very favourably to this request .
in the next few days , it will shoulder its responsibilities and will , in the spirit that i have just mentioned , launch a three-stage initiative , with the reservation that i mentioned right at the beginning of my speech , which is the coordination that there must be between us , with all the institutions .
the germ of the idea was already present in the commission opinion of 26 january , which i delivered to you , with president prodi , on the subject of the european commission ' s proposals for reforming the institutions , as , in the text of 26 january we proposed , as you yourselves did , to draw up european lists for the european elections .
that is why , in the next few days , the commission will be adopting the initiative that you have been requesting , first through the trialogue and then by looking at how the optimum combination of articles 308 and 191 can be achieved within the framework of the igc .
secondly : i am also delighted that we are again stepping up the political debate on the party statute , the pressure of time in the run up to the final stage of the intergovernmental conference notwithstanding .
this is also a question of political self-awareness , a question of political identity , a question of the role of national and european parties in the unification process .
but a stronger european parliament depends on strong groups in parliament which have the authority to act .
we want a strong commission which drives the european integration process forward .
we want a statute for european political parties because our democracy is a civil and party-political parliamentary democracy .
my group started taking steps in this direction even before the court of auditors ' report in order to clarify this transparency and this division .
mr president , i take good note of commissioner barnier ' s statement and the commitment which the commission is making .
the union treaty , at that time signed by the twelve heads of state and government and ratified by all the parliaments of the member states with the approval of the european parliament , which recognises citizenship , is not , it appears , a sufficient legal basis .
this surprises me because to be associated with a political party is a fundamental right for citizens and , while our citizenship is recognised , that right is not .
i understand that the proposal relating to the tripartite dialogue and stemming from article 308 is a provisional proposed legislative provision and the best laws , at least in my country , are provisional laws , which are the ones which have lasted the longest .
the second step is the amendment of the treaties .
i believe i can say that we all support it , but the important thing at the moment is , firstly , the existence of a public commitment by the commission to exercise its right to initiative , a common will to consolidate a fundamental dimension for european citizenship and contribute immediately to the political parties beginning not only to exist in reality , but also to be legally recognised , because i believe that this is an important step towards the construction of european democracy .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i naturally concur with mrs hautala ' s views on transparency .
i hope that the commission can give me a clear answer to it .
direct links with people exist not at a pan-european , but at national or regional level .
on 12 december last year , the chairmen of the party of european socialists , the european people ' s party , the liberal , democrat and reform party and the european free alliance and the secretary-general of the european federation of green parties themselves stated in a joint declaration that clarification was needed as to what a european party is .
i have nothing against european parties .
the criticism of the court of auditors was justified .
i should like to close by saying that i too am in favour of finding a solution to this muddle .
mr president , i would first of all , perhaps specifically for the benefit of the german delegates , insofar as they still care about respecting the rule of law , like to remind you of the judgement by the german constitutional court of karlsruhe , in which the european union is unambiguously defined as a confederacy , and hence the opposite of a federal state .
in fact , this vision of the european union is also held by the large majority of citizens of our member states for whom our union is a close partnership of free peoples and states which very clearly respects the principle of subsidiarity .
in a european union which really respects the principle of subsidiarity , we do not need a european political party .
the court here in strasbourg can support us in connection with human rights .
in brussels , we have close economic cooperation between the eu and the eea in connection with a common market .
it is a rhetorical question , but who of us knows anything about the european political parties ?
the european political parties do not represent democracy .
at this point , i doubt - judging by the number of mouths that are watering here - that we have the majority that is required to reject this motion , to reject this institutionalisation of bureaucracy , which is becoming more and more pervasive within parliament .
i think that the public should be made aware of this : what is being proposed to us today is not a europe of the citizens but a europe of the taxpayers , whom we are once again going to bleed dry in order to allow bureaucracy to proliferate in the future .
i expressed this by calling article 308 a valuable operational procedure .
after this we will accept our responsibilities - and i repeat this for the second time - and we shall also accept our responsibilities within the framework of the intergovernmental conference , at which i promise to fight for the proposal that the commission will be producing in the next few weeks , as strenuously as you know i can .
the subject you have raised , mrs maes , is an extremely sensitive one , and this issue is clearly open to various interpretations .
ultimately , we must recognise the true nature of political debate in europe and give this debate a sounder structure and a clear and transparent legal basis .
considering the matter from this point of view , these changes would represent progress for the general public but also , mr dupuis , for the taxpayers , who are generally the same people .
i should like to add or repeat that these european political parties , as they are organised today , on an unsteady foundation , and as they will be organised tomorrow , on a clear and legally sound basis , if we succeed , will not replace the national political parties , they will complement them and will give them a european dimension .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
this development complements nato , which will continue to remain responsible for collective security in europe .
we must realise that amsterdam transferred the petersberg tasks of the weu to the european union and that , as a result , practically all areas of the western european union now come under the responsibility of the european union .
i think this intergovernmental conference should consider whether article 5 can be adopted in the form of a protocol to the eu treaty and whether we should leave it to each member state to take a sovereign decision as to whether or not it subscribes to this protocol .
the european parliament will advocate bringing the community position , the community part to the fore .
we clearly must coordinate these two dimensions and particularly the military and non-military crisis management actions which the eu may decide to undertake .
i must point out that the interim bodies started work in march 2000 and that the committee for civilian crisis management was formally created during the portuguese presidency .
as will be evident from the presidency ' s report to the feira european council , an effort is being made to simultaneously develop the military and non-military crisis management capabilities .
this represents a major effort by the member states to ensure sustained and uniform development of these two dimensions which are fundamental for security and stability .
in this context it must be said that the european union will use , in order to develop the headline goal , the nato defence planning , the planning and review process for countries which are not members of nato and the defence capabilities initiative which is ongoing within the alliance .
no increase in the community budget is planned as these efforts are to be implemented by the member states in a context of voluntary cooperation .
as for the involvement of the european parliament in this process , it should be recalled that the common european security and defence policy is a component of the common foreign and security policy .
the eu intends to make its foreign dimension more effective and credible by developing military and civilian crisis management capabilities .
under article 21 of the treaty on european union , parliament shall be consulted by the presidency on the main aspects and the basic choices of the common foreign and security policy .
the need to avoid unnecessary duplication and to make the best use of all the existing assets and capabilities also underlies the development of the common european security and defence policy .
it is therefore natural that the member states have from the beginning advocated the transfer of weu powers which could prove useful in the process now under way in the european union .
portugal , which holds the presidency of the weu , has tried to advance the process for transferring powers from the weu to the european union .
the weu has already taken the decision to allow the eu direct access to these structures .
the common european security and defence policy requires a close , intense and transparent relationship between the european union and nato .
the report to be presented to the feira european council includes a document establishing the principles and terms of this relationship during this interim period .
four ad hoc working groups involving the eu and nato will be created on the following issues : security , european military capability , development of processes for transferring nato assets and capabilities to operations led by the european union and , finally , definition of the permanent terms of the relationship between the european union and nato .
it must be stressed that the headline goal defined in helsinki is open to participation by these countries which may therefore contribute to the european force .
according to the document agreed by the european union which will form an integral part of the feira european council report , a single and inclusive structure will be created in which the fifteen member states of the european union and the fifteen third countries will participate .
in view of the fundamental role of the six european allies who are not members of the european union and also bearing in mind that nato may provide assets and capabilities for operations led by the eu , meetings will take place within this single structure between the fifteen and these six countries to discuss issues involving the development of the european military capability .
the french presidency will be responsible for presenting the nice european council with proposals on the terms for the consultation and participation of these countries .
finally , in helsinki the portuguese presidency was given the task of presenting the feira european council with an indication of whether or not the treaty of amsterdam needs to be revised .
the commission has actively contributed to non-military crisis management since long before the cologne and helsinki summits .
we need to improve our capacity for rapid and targeted action .
the creation of additional instruments , or the mobilisation of additional funding , does not , in my judgement , stand in the centre of current deliberations ; nor are far-reaching treaty changes required .
i hope that we will have the support of parliament in working through it .
the commission recently tabled a proposal for the creation of a rapid reaction facility .
we had de gasperi .
we had fouchet .
the decision taken at maastricht , the decision taken at amsterdam , the decision taken at helsinki - they all mark a signal move forward , a recognition that we have not done enough in the past to ensure that europe 's voice is heard adequately around the world and that europe 's capacities to prevent and manage crises are brought to bear with sufficient competence and vigour .
this time we have to ensure that a common foreign and security policy ensures that europe discharges its responsibilities at the level which events require , at the level which our citizens now in my judgement demand .
we in the commission want to play our full part in ensuring that this time a common foreign and security policy is a resounding success .
mr president , minister , commissioner , i should like to welcome , as my colleague , elmar brok has just done , the progress that has been made in european defence and political unity .
europe awoke when the crisis in kosovo arose .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , as you can see , the european parliament takes a very close interest in this new policy , which will become the common european security and defence policy , and we will have occasion to discuss it often in the future .
i am now speaking in my capacity as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , but in more general terms , i think i can say that the great majority of the european parliament , which does not mean unanimously , approves , as i do , of the new impetus that the cologne and helsinki summits have given to this policy since the treaty of amsterdam .
that being the case , the european parliament must draw a clear distinction between civilian and military crisis management .
the former is obviously the approach we favour .
by the same token , how can we guarantee effective coordination , which is a continual problem , between the council , the council ' s high representative , the commission , and in some cases , member states , ngos etc ?
there is still much to be done to ensure that the european union has adequate military resources , which is why we are putting these questions to you .
with regard to our relations with nato , i paid great attention to what you said , mr president-in-office of the council .
finally , mr president , i shall in turn stress a matter to which the european parliament understandably attaches great importance : the parliamentary dimension of security and defence policy .
even if the executive must always have overall responsibility for this matter , we must stress the role of parliaments , both national parliaments and the european parliament .
mr president , the decisions made at the helsinki european council on the development of a common security and defence policy are open to interpretation .
under the treaties , the aim of a common foreign and security policy for the union is to safeguard its independence and integrity , as well as strengthen its security in all its forms .
in the opinion of the non-aligned member states , only the creation of a system for crisis management has been decided upon .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it is useful to remind ourselves and to realise that we are in the first round of many of a debate on european security .
this is a good example of how , also in future , the union will be able to use its nearly unlimited options in the field of non-military crisis management .
instead , scenarios such as the war in kosovo or imaginary crises in the future , islamic fundamentalism or , as in the german defence guidelines , even possible ecological threats are wheeled out in order to justify huge military spending .
let me pick up on just one issue , an issue which figured at the centre of all the positions taken here today : the war in kosovo .
i think that the council , the commission and we ourselves are drawing the wrong conclusions in principle from a war which was wrong in principle .
first , the violation of international law , as practised by nato , and which , for the rest , still forms part of the official nato military strategy , should not shape future security policy .
my group takes an opposing view in principle to the present prevalent european security policy on at least three counts .
germany has earmarked dm 17.5 million for civil conflict management projects this year .
mr president , we take a different approach to the important point raised by our colleague , mr brok ' s question to the council .
this is an important issue , because , following the very serious crises that have struck the balkans , the european council , especially in its cologne and helsinki declarations of june and december 1999 and the presidency , particularly in the two reports it has drawn up on the union ' s military and civilian resources for dealing with crisis situations , have demonstrated their intention to see the union become more closely involved in the management of crises that threaten european security , interests and values .
a number of european union member states , but also non-members , may perceive such threats as common threats .
it would be useful to know whether the council feels that the upturn in growth in europe is such as to favour this essential turnaround and how the council intends to promote it .
mr president , with regard to defence , the council which is to be held in feira on 19 and 20 june will work on the basis of the conclusions of the meeting of the foreign ministers of the fifteen member states in the azores and on the conclusions of the meeting of the defence ministers of the weu member states .
nato , which was created in 1949 to defend western europe against soviet imperialism , ought to have disappeared at the same time as the soviet union did , in 1991 .
the 50 000 soldiers of eurocorps have been under nato command since 1993 , and above all , whilst nato had done nothing for the people of berlin , hungary , czechoslovakia or poland , it engaged in a brutal and massive intervention specifically to destroy serbia ' s civil infrastructures , yet without thereby solving the problems of kosovo .
the required " firm political commitment on the part of all member states " of paragraph 19 of the resolution is lacking .
mr president , we must recognise that the progress that has been made in recent months in the field of security and defence policy originated from the informal council of defence ministers in sintra , which should be included on the list of successes of the portuguese presidency .
one of the many and complex problems involved in the development of this policy , which necessarily requires greater involvement by finance ministers and defence ministers , is the role and influence of the institutions .
furthermore , the appropriate measures should be taken for the parliament to exercise control over the security and defence policy and so that it is constantly and adequately informed of its tasks and of the provisional bodies which currently work in the service of the council of ministers of the european union .
what i have just said with regard to parliament , mr president , is equally valid for the commission .
the balance between the institutions should not be altered in the case of such an important question .
furthermore , mr president , this european union project is not just a matter of a political , economic and military union .
we in the european union do not simply define ourselves as consumers in a big market place , but as citizens of the union .
the citizens of the union , represented by parliament , increasingly want to be involved in this area which concerns them and affects them directly , namely the common security and defence policy .
central to this was robert schuman ' s speech of 9 may 1950 .
schuman began his speech with these words : ' world peace cannot be preserved without constructive efforts to combat impending dangers ' .
this far-sighted approach permeates the socialist group ' s vision of europe ' s foreign and security policy and is also a persistent theme in mrs lalumiere ' s report on the eve of feira , a report which our group supports wholeheartedly .
we share the same planet and the same fate .
in today ' s globalised world following the end of the cold war , poverty and exclusion stand out as the main enemies of peace and democracy .
the headline goals which have been established are important and must be implemented in full , without delay and without exception .
at the same time , we must , however , oppose those who wish to exaggerate our military capacity and role .
we should accept increased responsibility for security on our own continent , but we should not take the place of nato or create an embryonic form of permanent and independent european defence .
mr president , mr president-in-office , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , contrary to the priorities for feira , the european union must strengthen the civil conflict prevention dimension of its policy .
that means , as far as weighting instruments is concerned , that the financial and material focus must be on an effective conflict prevention policy .
mr president , a european union which cannot play a clearly defined role in terms of security and defence creates uncertainty on the world stage .
the christian democrats hope that the transfer of tasks and competencies from the western european union to the european union can contribute to this clarity .
mr president , we have emphasised the civil and military aspects of this policy in our resolutions .
this is why it is essential that this european parliament , in which we discuss all kinds of civil affairs with each other all the time , be the place where the military components form part of a wider context in parliamentary supervision too .
i also have to say that the nature of the tasks which we have in mind , the petersberg tasks , is such that here is the ideal place where they can be dealt with .
we want to cooperate with north america in these matters too , but also - and particularly - with sound backing from the council .
the war in and about kosovo has made europeans realise three important things .
secondly , we have learned that we are unable to intervene independently on our own continent and in our own neighbourhood , even in the case of very limited military action .
the european parliament should also gain greater influence on military action through the budget and proper accountability through the council .
if the union only deals with civil and police matters whilst the governments ' exclusive remit is military aspects , then the unity of european action is in danger of becoming the first casualty in crisis situations .
i am not only thinking of kosovo , which has been so important to us as an eye-opener .
unfortunately , this philosophy , as can be seen from the debate , prevails not only in the council and the commission , but also in the european parliament which , instead of expressing the feelings and interests of the citizens , is about to ratify an extremely dangerous policy for europe and mankind as a whole .
i thank him particularly for his undertaking to examine my proposal for a european public security force , because there are several organisations across europe which could offer experience , not least the royal ulster constabulary in northern ireland .
the aim is to develop our own capacity in order to be able to implement the so-called petersberg tasks .
autonomy should certainly not culminate in a political exchange between the common european security and defence policy and the national missile defence , as was suggested recently by an american senator during the nato assembly in budapest .
the second point is about democratic control .
in my own country the vast majority of people are against the militarisation of europe , especially a europe that will have nuclear weapons at its disposal , a europe where the arms industries are exporting arms to places around the world where there are mass and gross abuses of human rights .
we in the neutral countries are being told that collective defence is not going to be part of it , but of course when we get in so far then there will be no going out .
finally , i was quite amazed to hear mr newton dunn cite the ruc as a good example of policing .
if you look at the human rights organisations around the world that have amassed damning reports on that organisation , it is incredible to put it up as an example .
i am sure there are good examples , but the ruc is not one of them .
it is important for decisions on military intervention to remain the responsibility of national parliaments .
this european security and defence policy must be subject to parliamentary monitoring in this house .
the president-in-office has said that transparency and clarity are needed .
i also wish to congratulate the council on being able to establish at the last summit the principle of the headline goals .
the western european union armaments group , for example , moves very slowly on the basis of consensus .
we clearly need more urgency in this area and we need a single , coherent framework within which the defence industry can cooperate .
the commission has a crucial role in this .
this commission has been completely silent on this issue .
we have to ensure that the single market applies to defence industries as far as possible , and that article 296 only applies in those areas specified in the treaty .
i would urge commissioner patten to follow in the footsteps of commissioners bangemann and van den broek to drive forward the commission 's responsibility in delivering an effective and competitive european armaments industry in order to back up the measures we are taking in the political field .
mr president , considerable progress has been made towards the establishment of a common european security and defence policy .
if member states are indeed serious about establishing a real security and defence policy then they must put their money where their mouth is .
these realities must temper our discussions at feira and elsewhere as must also the need to keep in mind the status and role of the united nations .
the experience of kosovo has underlined the need for such an initiative and i welcome the fact that it may happen at feira .
there is also the question of developing a system of regional responsibility in europe which does not fly in the face of the united nations system , as has been maintained time and again , but which , on the contrary , can be incorporated into the united nations system and into the ideas of the united nations .
mr president , we are regularly reassured that the measures being put in place under the common european security and defence policy are intended to strengthen nato .
the real desire is to create something separate from nato .
the amendments we have put forward to the lalumiere resolution are intended to stress the importance of the continued commitment of our north american allies to the security of europe as a foremost priority , to make it clear that the european union should only opt to act militarily in agreement with the alliance and when nato as a whole has chosen not to be engaged , to insist that any rapid reaction force should also be assigned to nato and in any case should not impact adversely on the capacity of nato allies to meet their alliance obligations .
we want eu decisions relating to the use of military assets , including decisions taken on the basis of a common strategy or when implementing a joint action , to be taken unanimously .
the royal ulster constabulary is a fine force with a proud record in fighting terrorism but this is not at all relevant to this particular debate .
one might even say that europe has entrusted the task of a military presence to the nato leadership and , at the same time , relaxed its efforts over the years , to the point at which it is now more or less incapable of properly honouring its obligations within nato .
if someone , be it a person , a country or a group of countries , considers that it has no initiative to act , it loses interest , neglects its duties or goes through the motions of performing its duties , but there is no substance to them and they are performed perfunctorily .
perhaps the most important outcome of the resolutions of the cologne , helsinki and lisbon summits is precisely the fact that they have restored europe ' s sense of initiative , giving it the motivation needed in order to accept responsibility , make an effort and honour its obligations .
mr president , mr president-in-office , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the proposed resolution on a common european security and defence policy is an important signal from the european parliament in the run-up to the feira summit , a signal which points in two directions .
secondly , a signal to take account of and strengthen the role of the european parliament in fashioning a common european security and defence policy .
the specific undertaking to create a european strike force no more than 60 000 strong in order to complete the petersberg tasks calls for solidarity between all the member states of the european union .
the idea of attaching article 5 in an additional protocol to a revised treaty , to which the individual member states may accede if necessary , therefore represents a reasonable attempt to find a solution .
mr president , minister , commissioner , honourable members , it is quite right to make crisis management the main objective of european foreign and defence policy .
not only has she made specific proposals , she has also highlighted the need to find a modus operandi and a modus vivendi for all the means proposed in order to implement european foreign policy .
having said this , may i suggest , minister , that we act with the greatest caution when it comes to questions such as the integration of the western european union or relations with iaoi .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , a year has gone by since the war in kosovo , and intensive reconstruction work has begun .
mr president , secretary of state , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , in order for the european construction process to maintain its vitality , which is a prerequisite for its survival , each point of arrival must also form a point of departure .
although this was clearly not our desire , the fall of the berlin wall has obviously not helped with security and defence in europe .
we must therefore have effective mechanisms for managing crises using non-military means , for developing and ensuring the compatibility of the military capabilities of the member states , for mobilising adequate financial resources in the national and community budgets and for establishing effective decision-making structures .
the commitment of the member states is essential .
this report is the result of our commitment to carry out in full the mandate established in helsinki .
regardless of certain differences which are evident here in terms of security and defence cultures , and more so in the defence culture than in the security culture , we believe that we all agree on the need for the european union to rapidly acquire a crisis management capability at either military or non-military level .
as for the eu-nato link , all the concerns expressed about how the creation of a common european security and defence policy may reflect negatively on the relationship with nato are unfounded .
on the contrary , we believe that this mechanism will allow us to independently reinforce a particular dimension without creating any type of barrier in our relationship with nato .
moreover , the mechanisms which we are implementing to link member states who are in nato with those who are not and , at the same time , the formulas which we are using to link the european union in terms of security and defence with nato partners outside the eu seem to have found the right balance .
civilian crisis management has been one of the aspects highlighted by the portuguese presidency , particularly bearing in mind the concerns felt within the council and also expressed in this house about this dimension .
firstly , there was some discussion about the sort of institutional arrangements that we need to make , not least in the commission , to cope with the responsibilities of adequately implementing a common foreign and security policy and , in particular , to ensure that we can play our own role in the non-military aspects of conflict prevention and crisis management .
we need our own crisis units in the commission , but we should keep that small .
we have made proposals about asymmetric trade measures for the balkans , which are now being considered by the council and , in due course , will be considered by parliament .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
i extend a warm welcome to the australian delegation , which is here to attend the 24th european parliament / australia interparliamentary meeting , taking place here in strasbourg on 14 and 15 june .
we now look forward to the strengthening of our cooperation with australia .
i wish you all a successful and an enjoyable stay here in strasbourg .
these amendments have been deemed to be inadmissible .
on the other hand , all the other amendments have been deemed to be acceptable , and indeed has always been the case . ( parliament adopted the calendar of part-sessions as amended ) simplified procedure - without report initiative of the grand-duchy of luxembourg with a view to the adoption of a council decision establishing a procedure for amending articles 40 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , 41 ( 7 ) and 65 ( 2 ) of the convention implementing the schengen agreement of 14 june 1985 on the gradual abolition of checks at common borders ( 7217 / 00 - c5-0216 / 2000 - 2000 / 0803 ( cns ) ) ( committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs ) ( parliament approved the initiative ) proposal for a council decision modifying decision 1999 / 311 / ec of 29 april 1999 adopting the third phase of the trans-european cooperation scheme for higher education ( tempus iii ) ( 2000-2006 ) ( com ( 2000 ) 0184 - c5-0231 / 2000 - 2000 / 0074 ( cns ) ) ( committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport ) ( parliament approved the commission proposal ) recommendation for 2nd reading ( a5-0153 / 2000 ) by mr beysen on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market on the european parliament legislative resolution on the common position adopted by the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council regulation amending council regulation ( eec ) no 3330 / 91 on the statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states , with specific reference to a simplified application of the nomenclature of products ( 14100 / 1 / 1999 c5 0134 / 2000 - 1997 / 0162 ( cod ) ) ( the president approved the common position ) report ( a5-0156 / 2000 ) by mr maaten , on behalf of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws , regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the manufacture , presentation and sale of tobacco products ( com ( 1999 ) 594 - c5 0016 / 2000 - 1999 / 0244 ( cod ) ) madam president , on behalf of my group , i would like to request that the vote on maaten report be postponed until july .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , this is surely an extremely important report on what is without doubt a serious issue .
i know that the tobacco industry lobby is most anxious to prevent this directive and i think that this request is yet another ploy to prevent a vote , which is clearly a matter of urgency , from taking place .
if we postpone our vote , the tobacco industry will gain even more time , since the council will then not be able to state its position until the end of june .
it is true that many amendments have been tabled and also that in future we will have to make efforts to improve our work so that fewer amendments are tabled in plenary .
on the proposal for a council directive amending directives 69 / 169 / eec and 92 / 12 / eec as regards temporary quantitative restrictions on beer imports into finland ( com ( 2000 ) 76 - c5-0137 / 2000 - 2000 / 0038 ( cns ) ) ii .
by the same token , and out of respect for the rule of law , i voted against the amendments which seek to cancel the additional part-sessions in brussels .
mr president , i voted not to work on fridays in strasbourg although i am totally in favour of our meeting here .
i would like to make the following point : we put in a lot of time but we work inefficiently and we produce relatively little compared with , for example , the italian parliament , which meets less often - it never votes on a monday and does not meet on fridays at all - yet produces at least 500 laws every year .
this time , they have tried to achieve their ends in a more subtle way , by cutting the duration of each ordinary part-session , without reducing their number .
in fact , in its judgement of 1 october 1997 , the court of justice made it quite clear that the edinburgh council decision of 12 december 1992 , which was taken to enforce article 216 of the treaty , and was furthermore elevated to the rank of protocol by the treaty of amsterdam , was as valid as the treaty and was therefore binding on the european parliament .
i should like to take this opportunity to remind you that , as i understand it , setting additional part-sessions in brussels a year in advance is not a practice that is in accordance with the treaty either .
the 1997 judgement states that " additional plenary part-sessions can only be set for another working location if the parliament holds the twelve ordinary part-sessions in strasbourg , which is the seat of the institution " .
i conclude from this that the european parliament does not have the right to set additional part-sessions more than a year in advance , as it currently does .
parliament would need to know if the ordinary part-sessions in strasbourg have been sufficient or insufficient to deal with matters pending .
i greatly hope that the french government will again refer the matter to the court of justice , as it did in 1995 .
such a decision would not only threaten the institutional balance that has nonetheless been accepted by all member states , but , even more seriously , it would threaten the ' certain concept of europe ' that strasbourg symbolises : that of a political europe that is reconciled and peaceful .
for who can deny that the creation of a single capital for a federal europe , which will have more than 500 million inhabitants in 10 years ' time , would be an aberration ?
the solution to this problem would be to concentrate parliament 's work at only one place .
the vast majority of members of the european parliament who voted for the removal of the friday sitting are pursuing a strategy whose aims are crystal clear : they wish to move more plenary sittings to brussels .
beysen recommendation ( a5-0153 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the beyson report , but this is a classic example of what i was referring to in the vote on abolishing friday sittings .
at the same time , however , we feel sure that article 95 of the treaty , covering the harmonisation of rules for the internal market , on which this draft is based , is an improper legal basis .
article 152 of the treaty , which refers to public health , authorises the community to encourage cooperation between member states , but under no circumstances to adopt binding harmonisation measures , as such , as these are expressly rules out by paragraph 3 ( c ) .
in such circumstances , we are well aware that the commission , as is often the case , is currently using a praiseworthy cause - in this case , the anti-smoking campaign - in order to award itself new competencies , in spite of the wording of the treaties and with no thought for subsidiarity .
mr president , i am totally in favour of this report safeguarding citizens ' health , the health of both active and passive smokers .
all cigarettes are harmful .
if we choose tight protection for our citizens we should not allow the exporting of more dangerous products which profit from the addiction of others .
in voting in favour of this report , despite its shortcomings and particularly despite the hypocrisy of member states in their actions to limit smoking , we feel that we are making a stand , within the options available to us , against the right of tobacco cartels to poison the population for the sake of private profit .
the measures that are adopted should furthermore impose the same restrictions , at least on european tobacco companies , when they manufacture their products under licence , or sell their poison , in the countries of eastern europe , in africa or elsewhere .
the behaviour of tobacco companies , which runs completely counter to the interests of society as a whole , mirrors the behaviour of all the large oil , asbestos , arms and agrifood companies , which are prepared to run the risk of harming the population or the environment in order to make a little more profit .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the ban on any form of television advertising for cigarettes and other tobacco products in directive 89 / 552 and the more stringent labelling requirements for tobacco products introduced in this directive illustrate the ambivalent attitude of the european union towards tobacco .
the european union must set itself the task of pursuing policies which our citizens can understand .
if this contradiction cannot be resolved at community level , then the union must fight to help attain a high level of health protection by supporting a reduction in tobacco cultivation at international level .
mr president , i have voted decidedly in favour of the amended proposal and of the legislative resolution with regard to the new tobacco directive .
mr president , personally , i have never smoked and i am well aware of the dangers of smoking for the health of both the individual and of the public at large .
a legislator can prohibit or authorise , but should not make sermons in legislative texts , which is what we do here all the time .
more than half a million people died as a result of tobacco addiction in the eu in 1990 .
the greens want to ban many of the more than 600 additives in cigarettes .
if we take the example of the community 's approach to food safety legislation , whereby legislation is based on the principle that consumers have the right to know what they are consuming , then the same principle must apply to tobacco products : smokers should have the right to know exactly what they are smoking and what the effects are .
we therefore voted in favour of maintaining direct aid to income in the tobacco production sector within the european union , thereby guaranteeing greater compliance with community preference , in order to reduce the share of american multinationals in the tobacco consumption market and to protect the interests of portuguese farmers , without public health being endangered .
that is why i tabled an amendment with my colleagues to do the monitoring of health effects by the year 2002 instead of 2005 which was the initial proposal from the commission .
this proposal to change the timetable is also very important from the public health point of view .
i still think that even if the scientific data come as late as the year 2004 , this information will be very important for us members of the european parliament , when we create future legislation in the field of tobacco products . - ( de ) i was the rapporteur in this house for the common organisation of the raw tobacco market over 30 years ago .
things are as they are and we shall have to live with them , because tobacco farmers cannot reasonably be expected to be left standing out in the rain after 30 years ' common organisation of the raw tobacco market .
i supported amendment no 75 on banning the sale of tobacco products to anyone under the age of 16 .
on the basis of ethical considerations , too , i feel it is reasonable to ban exports of products that we consider to be harmful to our own citizens to countries outside the union .
i voted in the strongest possible terms against amendment no 54 .
europe has other assets and other creative ways of finding export markets .
during yesterday ' s debate , some members raised the point that smoking kills more people than tuberculosis , aids or other infectious diseases .
nobody questions the validity of its aims : smoking kills 500 000 people per year in the european union alone .
half of all long-term smokers will eventually be killed by tobacco and of these , half will die during middle age losing 20 to 25 years of life .
this legislation will spell out the dangers of smoking and save thousands of lives . - ( de ) i voted against an export ban on stronger cigarettes for the following reasons : the commission has proposed banning exports of cigarettes with yields of over 10 milligrammes of tar , 1 milligramme of nicotine and 10 milligrammes of carbon dioxide to third countries .
berenguer fuster report ( a5-0142 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for this report on the exchange on information regarding , specifically , financial activities .
i feel that this directive should be extended to include this type of inspection .
i remember when , at the age of about 21 , i worked as part of the crew of a ship which travelled between new york and the bahamas : whenever i left the ship and ventured into new york city i was allowed to take two bottles of whisky with me , which , as i boarded the bus , would regularly be bought from me at three times the price , for whisky was much more expensive in new york .
therefore , this trade between one state and another which was caused by different levels of duties was only natural .
if we want to avoid it , we must remove all the excise duties in the european union .
according to that proposal , finland would reserve the right to abolish the more stringent restrictions on imports from eu countries in stages by the end of 2003 .
imports of beer from non-member countries such as russia and estonia would be limited to six litres up to the year 2006 .
under the treaty of amsterdam , internal market policy also has to take into account considerations of public health and environmental protection .
finland is in that way being granted the right to limit beer imports from third countries to six litres per traveller per day up until 1 january 2006 .
the commission might have shown similar insight in its treatment of the swedish derogations from 1994 concerning private imports of alcohol into sweden .
vidal-quadras roca report ( a5-0159 / 2000 ) mr president , i have to say that i was very surprised to find myself voting for this report , for it represents , perhaps , the surrender of the european union to one of the original communities out of which it grew , namely euratom : the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes .
let us remember that the commission proposed that it would finance this operation by using , at the end of each year , unspent appropriations from heading 3 .
this solution may be satisfactory insofar as it places financing outside the framework programmes for research , a point stressed by the european parliament , but it nevertheless falls short of what is required .
on the other hand , the most suitable solution is the one that seeks to have this programme financed by a self-contained budget line .
discussions were also held on reinforcing the role of non-governmental organisations in conducting all the policies and as privileged partners of the state in ensuring that the platform is implemented .
the basic problems concerned what the european union has already included in article 13 of the ec treaty and the difficulty which some countries had in accepting the issue of sexual rights and its inherent diversity and the issue of sexual orientation .
as some of you will know , she was unavoidably delayed by commitments which she had undertaken before the timing of this debate .
as honourable members will also know , she is coming to the committee next week in order to have a full exchange with members , many of whom will , of course , have shared in the success achieved last week .
i wish to begin , on behalf of the commission , by thanking the portuguese presidency for coordinating the member states ' positions so effectively and for handling the negotiations with other delegations so proficiently under what i understand were occasionally extremely difficult conditions .
the european union can be proud that it was the most progressive regional group represented at new york .
in a number of areas the outcome document goes far beyond what was achieved five years ago at beijing - a conference which i remember observing from slightly closer than would have been the case today .
we managed that without having to concede any watering down of the beijing platform in other areas .
the document reaffirms women 's rights as human rights .
it urges all un members to sign the cedaw optional protocol and calls for a strong awareness of gender issues in the workings of the international criminal court .
it recognises that discrimination against women is often compounded by discrimination on other grounds .
while we did not obtain specific references to all the grounds listed in the ec treaty , the presidency made the european union position clear in a final statement before the general assembly .
it seems to me , with some responsibilities in this field , inconceivable to have a sustainable model of economic development which does not have gender issues at its heart .
the document reaffirms the prime importance of education as a means of empowering girls and women .
lastly , we welcome the reference to men 's role in bringing about greater gender equality for they clearly have a considerable responsibility as well .
the effort is of course led by my colleague , commissioner diamantopoulou , but it is an endeavour in which all of us as commissioners wish to be fully involved .
there is also the problem of trafficking in women , rape of women during armed conflicts , etc .
firstly , as a european union , we should remain the driving force behind the member states .
but it is not only vis-a-vis our own member states that we have a role to play , we also have a responsibility towards the candidate countries , those which we as meps have brought together in new york .
and fruitful collaboration with non-governmental organisations also strengthened the position of the european union .
the fight against violence was put on every country ' s agenda .
i think the resolutions of parliament and our progress in the european union , parliament ' s progress , are now accessible to every country .
we came to the clear conclusion with our partners from associated countries that we need to work together more closely in order to promote women ' s rights .
we want to have a parliamentarians ' conference in two years to review beijing .
it is in our interest to fight for this .
women ' s human rights , the trade in women , violence against women , women ' s economic rights , the status of civil society : we may be pleased about the progress that has been made in all these issues .
it was especially gratifying for me that all the member states and almost all the candidate countries were talking together under portugal ' s leadership .
i believe this conference has given hope to all those millions of women who are without fundamental human rights ; and we need a further follow-up conference in five years ' time .
mr president , i should like to thank the presidency .
i should also like to thank mrs smet .
mr president , i would like to begin my speech by turning to the benches of this parliament and urging certain members to feel concerned at the lack of attention that our male colleagues pay to women ' s rights in this chamber , in which there are 30 women for 5 men .
i wonder if , bearing this figure in mind , we really had the right to lecture people in new york and to advocate women ' s rights in such a vigorous way .
after this introduction , with which i am sure almost everyone will agree , i shall say a few things that certain members present will be less pleased to hear .
for a union delegation to experience only two problems is quite reasonable , but they are crucial ones .
the first concerns the tendency of delegations to speak on behalf of our parliament .
in fact , the legislative body can express its will only through its votes and no delegate from our assembly has the right to speak on its behalf : they are only entitled to speak on their own behalf and they are only delegates from the point of view of protocol .
this threat also involved insults being made .
education is still the most effective instrument for ensuring that women can freely exercise their rights and for allowing greater access to positions of responsibility , both in the workplace and in public life .
knowledge of new technologies has been considered to be of great importance in terms of allowing full participation in the society of the future .
women ' s health is one of the priorities of the meeting ' s final document , with special mention of the spread of aids , especially in certain areas of the planet , which affects women in a particular way and requires special measures for prevention and treatment .
globalisation has generated new problems which particularly affect women , such as trafficking in human beings , prostitution and drug-trafficking , which should be combated so that women may live a dignified and free life in conditions of equality .
all these objectives must be achieved in the next few years and , in order to ensure they are complied with , we are requesting a new meeting within the next five years .
the fifth programme for equality promoted by the european commission must serve to promote the position of women , to eliminate the remaining inequalities , integrating gender policies into all community programmes .
this meeting has therefore been of enormous importance in terms of making progress in the situation of women in all parts of the world .
the european union ' s position , given that it has a higher level of development and , therefore , better conditions for women , must not allow us to forget the situation of women in other areas , where daily hardships are combined with malnutrition , extreme poverty and a complete lack of respect for their fundamental rights .
a small group of catholic and islamic fundamentalist countries clearly intended to undermine the progress achieved by women from around the world in beijing five years ago .
these issues united certain islamic and catholic countries ranging all the way from the sudan , iran and libya to the vatican , nicaragua and poland , which were prime movers in the fight against these rights .
on the issues of rape within marriage , right of possession and right of inheritance , together with the right to asylum on the grounds of gender-based persecution , the wordings have been strengthened .
it is especially important that all candidate states , including poland , undertake to abide by the eu ' s policy on women ' s rights .
i welcome the positive contribution made by europe to forging closer relationships with other countries and the ngos .
mr president , the very positive assessment that we are making today of the meeting in new york , should not allow us to forget that there have been serious deficiencies and great hypocrisy , even within the european union , which make me want to double my efforts from now on .
it has been demonstrated that , compared to men doing the same work , women receive 50 or up to 80 per cent less .
i wonder if the portuguese presidency , before the end of its mandate , could make a recommendation in this respect .
mr president , the european parliament ' s delegation played a magnificent role with regard to the candidate countries .
you were not in new york , but i was .
it has already been said many times : the work carried out by the un and in new york has demonstrated clearly that some progress has been made since beijing .
the need has become clear for governments to include a gender aspect in all government policies , from employment to development , from social policies to the fight against violence .
therefore , we need to focus on clear policies which fight the social exclusion of women and consolidate their role as active protagonists of political change and economic development .
actual equality and freedom for women is only possible if all options are open to them and if the traditional family image is not held up to them as the only true one .
the fight goes on .
the european union and member state representatives showed great commitment during the conference to the issue of sexual self-determination for women and the non-discrimination principle pursuant to article 13 .
the fact that this did not end up in the final document should not be a reflection on them .
article 13 offers the opportunity to do so and the beijing + 5 conference issued an instruction to this effect .
many friends and women who are colleagues in this parliament have just pointed out that my name appears as one of those who signed against women 's rights .
president-in-office , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i am sure you will understand the pride i feel as a portuguese national at the general acclaim for the portuguese presidency ' s excellent work in promoting equal rights for women during its term and particularly with regard to the special un conference on beijing + 5 .
the conferences on violence against women , trafficking of women and reconciling family and professional life , together with the un conference on beijing + 5 , are clear examples of the portuguese presidency ' s involvement in this area .
finally , i must say that the european union has a decisive role to play in this issue .
europe must continue to be the driving force in developments in this area .
these must be achieved through cooperation , particularly with all like-minded countries , some of which , like canada , are totally committed to the presidency ' s statement presented at the end of the special conference .
we must take advantage of all these opportunities .
these developments must also be achieved through benchmarking processes and by using the conclusions of the lisbon special summit , which considered that in europe there could be no economic development without social cohesion .
the debate is closed .
in fact , the members of the european parliament who were in new york as part of the european union delegation , which comprised 15 people with observer status , were not allowed to speak because , in accordance with the un ' s procedure for extraordinary general assemblies , the portuguese presidency spoke on behalf of the european union .
even in the working parties , we were not allowed to take the floor , which was always given to the portuguese presidency .
in no instance did we speak in an official capacity , still less on behalf of this parliament , although we did have some useful discussions with the commission and the council , with members of the parliaments of member states and associated states , who allowed us to convey our views .
what were banned from these meetings were the positions that parliament adopted under the smet / groner report , and nothing else .
you may hear my explanation of vote tomorrow , mr president , if you are going to cut me off .
mrs lulling , we have already heard speeches on the matter from the president of the council and from the commissioner on the subject of poland .
next , having heard what most of the speakers said on the issue of poland , i am left in no doubt as to many of the things said in corridors and about the pressure of which i was informed , which was brought to bear on the representatives of poland , a free state .
to conclude , i have heard many things said about the vatican , but i can see that jesuitical thinking , at least , has truly pervaded the european parliament .
mr varaut , we cannot base our debates on corridor conversations .
mr president , i should like first of all to welcome moncef marzouhi , spokesman for the national council for liberties in tunisia , and khemmais ksila , from the tunisian league for human rights , who are present in this chamber .
what we wish to do is open people ' s eyes to the hidden reality of tunisia and to shoulder the responsibilities that are incumbent on the european union , which is linked to that country by an association agreement that was signed five years ago now .
the hunger strike by the journalist taoufik ben brik lifted a corner of the veil that conceals the lack of press freedom and the persecution of the men and women with alternative views to those of the regime of president ben ali .
no , tunisia is not the smiling land trumpeted in the advertisements aimed at the 4 million european tourists who go there every year .
tunisia also comprises militants fighting for human rights , women fighting for democracy , students who are spied on , harassed , and deprived of their telephones , passports , sometimes even of the freedom to travel within tunisian territory .
nourredine was tortured and kept in prison for more than 20 months simply for having organised a strike at the university .
fortunately , in the last few weeks , several prisoners have been released and passports have been returned .
let us therefore not weaken in our support for those who are taking action to condemn a police state .
i urge all honourable members to vote in favour of the compromise resolution and i particularly urge the council and the commission to implement all the methods provided for in the agreement to ensure that democratic freedoms are respected , by involving civil society and preparing if needs be , for this agreement to be suspended .
the partnership proposed by the european union , which is essentially based on free trade , is liable to exacerbate the harmful effects on the population to the extent that , as the parliamentary delegation for relations with the maghreb noted , the association agreement is considered to be harmful by all tunisian organisations , in both the public and the private sectors .
mr president , commissioner patten , mr da costa , we are approaching this debate , as we approached the questions we put to the council and the commission , aware of the responsibility entailed in our partnership relationship with tunisia , which we consider will be decisive for the success of the entire euro-mediterranean partnership .
in fact , tunisia is the first country with which the european union signed an association agreement within the context of the 1995 barcelona process .
however , in all honesty , i must also say that we are extremely concerned about the human rights situation in this country , particularly because we are convinced that , given the socio-economic and cultural context involved , there is the possibility for substantial improvement in the degree of freedom of the press , of speech , of association and of movement , conditions in prisons and the autonomous exercising of justice , so that the country can move towards full expression of the rule of law .
not only muslim fundamentalists , but all political opponents are systematically silenced .
tunisia has concluded an association agreement with the european union which contains a clear human rights clause .
the fact that democracy and the rule of law form an essential integral part of our association with tunisia means , quite simply , that there can be no genuine association without democracy .
all those , like myself , who are working for a closer partnership , for a fair association and for lasting cooperation are faced with a difficult challenge : to put democratic flesh on the bones of an agreement signed with a regime which proclaims it in theory but declaims against it in practice .
it has taken us four years to hold this debate , four years , because the socialist group and the european people ' s group have blocked this debate for four years .
we concluded this model agreement with the country which seemed to have all the right assets to take the great leap forwards into democracy and the rule of law .
an extraordinary association council meeting must be held in order to put an end to this situation and finally to do something to help , to be tunisians ourselves .
this is the message which this house must send to the tunisian authorities , who must receive them in the positive light in which they are intended .
to this end , within the framework of euro-mediterranean cooperation , the commission , the council and parliament must not go into reverse with regard to the aid programmes which must be implemented within the framework of meda ii .
education and training in democratic principles are a fundamental element of sustaining a plural and democratic society .
it also concerns me that commissioner patten , who is present , is not sufficiently sensitive to the serious problems currently faced on the southern side of the mediterranean , where tunisia plays a very important role .
in any event - and this could serve as a summary of the debate - we cannot restrict our cooperation with third countries to purely trade and economic issues .
to this end , we also ask tunisia , together with economic reforms , also to make progress with political reforms aimed at guaranteeing freedoms , but with the aid and cooperation which , of course , they receive and will continue to receive from us , at least from my group .
we also believe that we need a common strategy in the mediterranean , as the resolution states , and that , together with political , social and security aspects , special attention is paid to the cultural and human dimension .
this is why we need to strengthen the interparliamentary dialogue and the dialogue with the representatives of civil society .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , when we start to examine an issue like this we should remind ourselves of the european union ' s general attitude to its external relations .
the eu has a set of values and principles which it naturally tries to promote in its relations and which it tries to use in all areas of its associations with third countries .
human rights issues are frequently discussed , as the speakers have noted , within the political dialogue which the council is conducting with tunisia within the association council and through the heads of mission of the member states in tunis who have regular meetings with the relevant tunisian government officials in this area .
however , the council prefers to use the opportunities for influencing the tunisian authorities more discreetly , and perhaps more effectively , by maintaining constructive pressure on them through political dialogue and various meetings at different levels .
we cannot ignore , and it would be politically incorrect to so do , the gestures of openness already made by tunisia , particularly in freeing 600 political prisoners , returning passports to certain members of the opposition and being clearly willing to reduce tensions in the case of the journalist , taouffik ben brick , and accepting his specific claims .
finally , in the barcelona declaration , tunisia , like the other mediterranean partner countries , signed up to certain principles involving respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
within the eu-mediterranean framework and in reinforcing this framework as we are trying to do at the moment in close cooperation with the european commission , we are also insisting on the importance of actively promoting the rule of law and the good management of public affairs which constitutes a key area in the dialogue between the two sides of the mediterranean .
to conclude , i must assure you that the council remains committed to promoting and reinforcing in tunisia , as in other countries with which the eu maintains relations , respect for human rights , democratic principles and fundamental freedoms , and to establishing a true democracy with an open civil society based on a rule of law .
i want to make it clear that the commission shares the view of the un special rapporteur who states in his report to the commission on human rights that : " tunisia still has a long way to go to take full advantage of its favourable economic context and adopt measures designed to strengthen the protection of human rights and , in particular , the right to freedom of opinion and expression . "
this is best done by looking at the three main instruments provided by the association agreement linking the european union to tunisia .
the first , to which my colleague referred , is political dialogue .
the union has made a point of addressing the human rights issues in tunisia in our many contacts with the tunisian authorities .
the meda programme for democracy , on which parliament has strong and positive views , has financed training , information and awareness-raising projects for ngos and for public opinion in this field .
i will keep parliament informed of developments in all these areas .
others could have referred , for example , to the position of tunisia on the sharia law .
it is best at the moment to proceed by dialogue but , as the house will understand , i do not equate dialogue with being supine .
that can be expressed firmly but courteously , as parliament is doing today .
i just want to make it clear to the honourable member that my commitment to making this policy a success is total .
it is not about creating hub economies which will make europeans more prosperous : it is about working in partnership with mediterranean countries in a partnership of values as well as trade , for the good of people to the south of the mediterranean as well as those of us in europe .
it is an enormously important part of europe 's endeavours over the next few years ; as important , in some ways in projecting stability , as the whole process of enlargement .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , today ' s debate enables us to stand back a little from the events in tunisia of the last few weeks , and gain some perspective , particularly with regard to what has become known as the ben brik affair .
tunisia is not being treated differently in any way .
this message of hope is founded , in part , upon the economic and social achievements that we have seen tunisia make .
we must , however , also respect our commitments and our convictions , and i think that we would be doing tunisians a favour by convincing them that our parliament will always pay close attention to developments in the political situation and in civil society in their country , regardless of the good economic results that may have been achieved .
we must also persuade all of our mediterranean partners that the commitments which they have given through taking part in the barcelona process , specifically in the field of democracy and human rights , are not negotiable .
finally , then , i would urge all members to staunchly support the motion for a resolution that we have tabled today , which , i think , provides a balanced picture of parliament ' s views on the situation in tunisia .
i believe that this is a useful question to ask , because only by understanding as accurately as possible what is happening in tunisia and the challenges faced by that country , will we be able to find the tone of moderation and effectiveness which we must develop within the framework of cooperation .
it is a country which is , and has been , in the forefront of the association agreements and the agro-mediterranean policy , and which has signed all the international conventions on human rights but where , nevertheless , time and time again problems arise relating to human rights which are exaggerated by sections of the european media .
i have spent fifteen years of my life without a passport or driving licence .
only by ensuring that we are not in a situation where the council is giving less priority to the mediterranean , the commission is hindering the implementation of programmes and the european parliament is simply giving lectures , will we be able to find the tone and effectiveness of a policy which will help the future of tunisia , in friendship and solidarity , towards a situation which brings both socio-economic growth and full democratisation .
mr president , the liberal group obviously endorses the text as tabled in full .
paragraph 11 of the motion for a resolution suggests that we will be entrusting our parliamentary delegation with the task of studying the situation .
mr president , we have had to wait until the end of this parliamentary term for the truth to finally break out in the european parliament .
the extremely severe legal restrictions on the right to strike have been made even harsher by the current leadership .
for a strike to be legal in tunisia , the executive of the gutw now has to give its approval .
amongst these , we wish to mention abdeljalil bedoui , ali romdhane , abdelmajid sahraoui , abdennour maddahi , hamed bennjima , noureddine ounissa , chaker ben hassine , and many others .
ben ali ' s regime is exercising tight control over the whole world of labour .
the report by the national council for liberties in tunisia estimates the number of policemen at 130 000 for a population of 9.5 million inhabitants .
tunisia is actually the first country in the maghreb to have signed an agreement with the european union , and everyone recognises the progress that tunisia has made in adapting its economy and its social fabric to the modernisation required by its links with the european union and , unfortunately , by acceleration due to liberalisation through globalisation .
the present tunisian regime does not tolerate any independent minds .
mr president , i too should also like to express my great concern at the deteriorating human rights situation in tunisia , a concern that is actively shared by all friends of that country .
this agreement contains a clause which calls for human rights to be respected , with suspensive effect and provides for political dialogue .
i certainly prefer political dialogue to unilateral sanctions , but , for this very reason , it is our duty to tell our partners that we are extremely concerned about the situation in tunisia .
there has been a ben brik effect , which goes beyond his individual case and in three months , we have seen a whole civil society , which has demonstrated its determination to end the police state , suddenly gain a new dignity .
the first is to continue to refuse to accept the reality of the situation in line with the principle - quite common in this type of regime - of insisting that everything is fine until the final moment , with civil society having to suffer a new wave of repression and to face up to it with courage and determination .
the tunisian government can also , however , choose the path of dialogue with civil society , in order to decrease tensions and to negotiate a way of pulling tunisia out of this impasse and to lead it towards democracy .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the situation in tunisia must be seen in the wider context of the mediterranean and the countries of north africa with which the european union is interested in maintaining dialogue regarding its peace and stability programmes .
it is therefore to be hoped that the eu-tunisia association council will assume the responsibility of continuously monitoring the human rights situation in tunisia by means of a joint action carried out together with the equivalent tunisian representatives , and that it will create a joint system to monitor the issue which can only bring social improvements to the human rights situation in tunisia .
mr president , human rights are being infringed .
i saw that they are attempting to boost their economy in order to avoid further migration which could certainly affect relations between the mediterranean countries and the countries which are now part of the same european union as well .
no , we are talking , as commissioner patten has stressed again and again , about critical dialogue based on the agreements which we have signed with tunisia .
we are talking about creating a common area of security , stability and peace , and that includes democracy , that includes respect for human rights , that includes freedom of the press .
tunisia keeps saying that it is a question of economic and social development .
but this totally positive economic and social development in tunisia is precisely the best basis for developing democracy still further and fighting the fight against extremism on democratic soil .
one last comment : we want to help tunisia , about that there can be no doubt .
first , to say that , speaking for the commission , we very much hope to bring forward proposals in the next few months - or weeks , if we can manage it - for revitalising the barcelona process , a contribution to the debate about how that can be done five years after the original agreement .
thank you , commissioner patten .
i have received six motions for resolutions in accordance with rule 40 ( 5 ) .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
secondly , this agreement is positive because it brings with it economic , social , environmental and also geopolitical advantages for china and the world in general , especially the european union .
what seems particularly positive to us is the opening up achieved in the field of financial services , telecommunications and insurance , which will offer opportunities , with no doubt whatsoever , to our economic operators , and also the gradual opening up of the energy markets in china which , apart from certain economic benefits , will lead to greater compliance with environmental standards in that country .
therefore , we also fully support the commission and council initiative to relaunch the round , which was frustrated at the outset in seattle , as soon as possible , turning it into a global round .
the other question is as follows : we have worked very well with the commission and the council throughout this process and we intend to continue to do so .
furthermore , we will all gain in terms of democratic legitimacy with this important agreement , since , i do not need to stress , it is laid down that in important agreements parliament has a decisive role to play .
mr president , the conclusion on 19 may of the bilateral agreement on access to the market in goods and services between the european union and the people ' s republic of china constituted , as we must all recognise , an important step in the process of china ' s accession to the world trade organisation which , incidentally , has now been operating for 14 years .
mr westendorp y cabeza mentioned the size of the chinese population and market and the importance which this will have in terms of the internal balance of the wto .
only at the end of this process will china ' s accession be placed on the agenda of a general council meeting for approval by the wto members , assuming that these have , in the meantime , carried out the internal procedures required for this purpose .
at community level , this issue must still be discussed by the member states as the process usually followed and known as the ad hoc ecuador process is proving to be too tacit and , as such , is incompatible with the political and economic weight of china and with the specific importance of this particular case .
the european union will have to give its clear and explicit assent to china ' s accession to the wto and the council must decide on the overall accession package which must also be submitted to parliament for an opinion .
as for cooperation and technical assistance actions , we have seen that , despite the problems noted throughout this negotiating process , china has proven its commitment to the multilateral process and has even prioritised this in certain regional choices .
first , i should like to endorse in the most glowing terms possible the encomium that he delivered to my colleague , commissioner lamy , for the way he conducted these negotiations .
i have had some experience of negotiating with china myself and i have to say that i am lost in admiration for commissioner lamy 's achievement .
i should like , as he did with characteristic generosity , to say that all of us should also pay tribute to his predecessor , sir leon brittan , who helped to get these negotiations up and running , even though they had to travel several more laps than he thought likely at the time .
second , i entirely agree with what the honourable member said about the importance of the outcome of these negotiations .
this agreement is very good for china and europe ; it is good for the asian region and for the world and , as we saw , it almost certainly had a beneficial effect on the vote in the us congress .
it will be a challenge for china and , in due course , for the wto .
commissioner lamy has already had an opportunity to set out in the plenary of this house in march the view of the commission that china 's wto accession is a trade agreement of major importance and , therefore , that it is exactly the type of agreement that would be submitted for parliament 's assent , were the commission proposals for the igc to be accepted .
on a more political and pragmatic level , i can assure the house that the commission will work with the european parliament to ensure that it can make its voice heard .
the house will know that , in exemplary fashion , commissioner lamy has held several rounds of discussions with members of this parliament during the final phases of the negotiations with china .
the multilateral phase of china 's accession that takes place in geneva has still to be finalised .
second , i want to come to the extremely important point which the honourable member raised about technical assistance to help china to implement its wto obligations .
we have in the commission five cooperation programmes in china , which total eur 25 million .
china 's wto accession and the related considerable needs for technical assistance are likely to generate significant interest from other donors , including the united states and japan , but also from our own member states and from the wto secretariat .
clearly , close coordination is going to be essential in order to avoid overlaps and to develop synergies between different programmes which each donor will implement in accordance with its own procedures .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , china was yet another of our trading partners to realise during negotiations in beijing that the european union has specific , independent weight as a major global trading area .
the commission represented coherent positions on the part of the european union with the support of the european parliament and the council of ministers and implemented many of them .
competition and the reciprocal opening of markets , freedom of establishment and in the provision of services , intellectual property rights , environmental protection and partnership for sustainable development are just a few examples .
for the rest , our position is based on the principles of free and fair global trade and is shaped by the european model of a social , ecological market economy , many fundamental points of which are already included in european framework legislation .
but integrating china into world trade also means ensuring that it is in a position to respect and apply the rules of the world trade organisation , act as a responsible partner and take on new responsibilities .
on behalf of the ppe group , therefore , i welcome the successful outcome of negotiations with china and call on the council to put this result in political order so that the european parliament is able to adopt this important decision .
i am sure that it is in the minds of all the honourable members who have spoken and i believe that it is my group ' s opinion , that we should use this opening and the integration of china into the world trade organisation to help it make a quantum leap .
firstly i would like to join in the warm congratulations to commissioner lamy and indeed his distinguished predecessor sir leon , now lord , brittan .
i have to confess i get the impression that there is a certain degree of institutional territoriality here , particularly in the large member states , where the trade and industry ministries are very reluctant to see the commission continue to extend its scope in those new areas in wto trade negotiations and , consistent with that , also reluctant to see the european parliament increase its influence .
it is great that we are going to coordinate with the americans , but look at the numbers : eur 25 million is absolutely nothing in comparison to the challenge we face !
we have a total budget for china of eur 80 million .
i hope the fact that we have signed up to this bilateral deal with the chinese does not leave them thinking that we are going to be any more forgiving on human rights .
it is all the more important that all three institutions should now be particularly robust about the way the chinese behave in the so-called dialogue on human rights .
in terms of improving the rule of law , in terms of strengthening democracy or in terms of respect for human rights , we have made no progress in ten years , none at all !
i think that the members who have spoken about human rights are well aware , as we all are , particularly having heard commissioner brittan over the last few years , that there has never been any question of linking human rights and democracy to the wto agreements .
mr president , i , too , would like to congratulate commissioner lamy on securing such improved terms and a deal with china .
after such a long history of negotiations clearly all that was needed was the question from our committee to push the matter to a conclusion .
i would have referred to commissioner patten knowing well the difficulties of dealing and negotiating with china , but he has already mentioned that .
i welcome this step in the further integration of china into the world economy but we must recall the emphasis that we , in the european union , place upon other values in addition to trade .
in that context i would like to call , on behalf of my british conservative colleagues , for european parliament participation in the half-yearly dialogue on human rights .
if this parliament were part of that dialogue we might exert additional pressure for improvement in that field .
mr president , while international big business is busy popping champagne corks in celebration of the agreement on china 's proposed accession to the wto , china 's small-scale farmers are already quaking in their shoes .
there are many people in china for whom this agreement does not spell good news .
but while cargill is so delighted that its profits will rise while chinese self-sufficiency in agricultural goods falls , the picture is a good deal less optimistic for the people of china themselves .
the commission is offering technical support to the chinese in order to help them with the enormous economic restructuring which accession to the wto will bring .
mr lamy has been quoted as saying that the bilateral negotiations between the eu and china yielded 96 % of what the eu was demanding .
one of the biggest and politically most difficult of these has been china ' s accession to the wto , and this same problem will again be associated with the implementation of the agreement in practice .
i wish to put forward a proposal that might relieve pressure on the end of today 's agenda , namely , the debate previewed for the late payments directive - the report of the conciliation procedure with the council .
the rapporteur , the shadow rapporteur and the chairman of the committee would all support a suggestion that this be turned into a vote without debate .
that would end pressure on the agenda right at the end of this evening .
but we take very good note of this proposal .
mr president , the size of the community budget is a general issue which has been addressed periodically , particularly within the wider debate on the future financing of the european union prior to the negotiations on the eu financial frameworks .
within the interinstitutional agreement reached on 6 may 1999 on budgetary discipline and improving the budgetary procedure , of which the financial perspectives are an integral part , you will remember that amounts were established which represent an annual maximum limit on expenditure for the european parliament , council and commission .
with regard to expenditure arising from enlargement , the aforementioned agreement specifies that , in the event of enlargement of the eu to include new member states during the period covered by the financial perspectives , the european parliament and the council , deliberating on a commission proposal , will jointly adopt financial perspectives taking into account the need for expenditure arising from this enlargement .
however , this alteration of the financial perspectives must respect the maximum limits contained in the guidelines on the financial perspectives for an enlarged union with 21 member states , as indicated in annex ii to the interinstitutional agreement .
i should like to thank the minister for answering the question which i tabled , but i think that he has not answered the specific issue which i raised , which is this : in the year in which i have been an mep , i have noticed that , although the number of eu programmes and initiatives is multiplying continuously , implying new , additional spending , no additional resources are being budgeted for them .
on the contrary , resources budgeted for other commitments are usually cut back ; this happened , for example , in order to find money for kosovo and for developing the balkans , for the earthquakes and for other issues which have arisen .
however , if the situation worsens to the extent that some of the commitments made by the european union cannot be kept in accordance with the financial perspectives , then this mid-term revision may clearly occur , as specified in the financial perspectives and for the first time by qualified majority voting .
however , given that we are currently in the first year of implementing the financial perspectives , there is no reason at the moment to justify any reassessment of the commitment made in berlin .
the committee on budgets and the european parliament agreed in the end in agenda 2000 to reduce the 1.27 % proportion of gdp by 2006 .
as the author is not present , question no 2 lapses .
mr president , negotiations within the ospar commission on issues coming under the community competence are conducted , as you know , by the commission in consultation with a committee of representatives of the member states .
the council would analyse this proposal with due care .
i know that the portuguese presidency is very familiar with this issue .
as you know , the ospar commission met in sintra two years ago and some progress was made on pollution of the marine environment .
my question pertains particularly to radioactive emissions .
given that the council as such is not a member of the ospar commission , only the european commission can adopt a legislative measure in this respect .
in principle this does not come under the community competence but is the exclusive competence of the national authorities and in particular , as stated by the member in his own question , of the greek high authority for data protection .
i thank the president-in-office , although i noticed that he contradicted himself in his reply .
the problem lies in determining whether or not , at this stage of the process , this reference constitutes an infringement of community law .
therefore , at this stage , this issue does not have a community dimension .
question no 5 by ( h-0450 / 00 ) : subject : turkey disputes the sovereign rights of greek islands in the aegean prompted by the nato exercise ' dynamic mix ' , turkey has put the spotlight back on its long-standing dispute concerning the established regime of greek sovereignty over islets and island rocks in the aegean .
mr president , the council does not have any information , rumours aside , on any representations made by turkey to the greek government on 10 may 2000 .
it should be recalled in this respect , as this is also extremely positive , that turkish troops participated in the nato exercise which took place in part on greek territory .
turkish troops have never before participated in exercises on greek territory .
the council notes that the greek defence minister described the cooperation between greece and the turkish armed forces as excellent and added that the exercises were carried out with full respect for all the sovereign rights of greece .
we must all cooperate , in all bodies and in all areas in which these issues are raised , to ensure that tensions are not heightened in any way and to eliminate the ghosts of the past in this respect .
minister , i too am personally in favour of closer relations between greece and turkey , but subject to certain specific conditions .
it feels that turkey can proceed unimpeded on its path towards the european union , violating greek sovereignty all the while .
mr hatzidakis , in my opinion helsinki represented a moment of great balance in terms of the concerns of those involved , namely greece , turkey and also cyprus as a third party .
for greece , as far as turkey is concerned , there is only one issue which needs to be settled and that is the boundaries of the continental shelf in the aegean .
we should allow some time for this process to develop before becoming involved in any potential conflicts .
i must remind you that the european union is the largest donor of aid to rehabilitation projects in south ossetia and is ready to support measures aimed at creating a climate of confidence , particularly by rebuilding the north-south infrastructures which connect russia to georgia .
the council supports all the efforts made by the competent international bodies , particularly the osce in south ossetia and the un in abkhazia , with the aim of contributing to acceptable solutions which can return the political and economic relations to normal and ensure the return of the refugees under safe conditions .
mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou , with regard to the measures which the european union can adopt in this area , i can only point to the plan mentioned and the set of initiatives which the eu has introduced on the ground .
you should remember that we have a limited capacity for intervention in certain areas and that , as was said today in other respects , the difficulties in the eu ' s external action framework and the financing of this framework limit the eu ' s capacity to be present in all conflict situations .
however , given the strategic importance of the area , the european union has been doing whatever it considers possible in this respect .
i agree that other measures may be possible but there is not currently a framework of financing which would allow us to go further , particularly in terms of acting to reinforce the infrastructures .
at every opportunity and at various levels , the european union has reminded egypt of its concern about the human rights situation and about the need for egypt to respect fundamental freedoms , particularly given its status as a member of the eu-mediterranean partnership .
the negotiations on the association agreement with egypt were concluded last year and it is envisaged that this will shortly be signed .
once in force , this agreement will turn the political dialogue between the european union and egypt into an institutional matter , especially in the area of human rights , which will naturally enable greater intervention and more scope for political pressure in respect of anything which may be regarded as non-compliance by egypt with its obligations under this agreement .
in this context , we will of course continue to remind egypt , as we have done prior to the establishment of this legally binding framework , of its responsibilities and , in particular , of the need to respect human rights and to preserve fundamental freedoms .
the president-in-office said in his reply that the council will remind the egyptians of their responsibilities and wait until they have signed the association agreement and can bring an institutionalised political dialogue to bear .
this issue has been addressed in the bilateral political dialogue and has naturally been raised within the normal framework of relations between the european union and third countries .
in this particular case we believe that the agreement has its own negotiating context and it would not be right , after the agreement has been approved by the european union and agreed by the council , to make its final signing dependent on the resolution of an issue , however important this may be , which is only one part of the whole picture .
i can only agree with the honourable member when he says that there are situations in other countries in the southern mediterranean which seem more serious than this issue .
it is practically impossible for the european union to constantly monitor all situations in all the countries with which we have a relationship within the euro-mediterranean partnership .
within the common foreign and security policy and particularly bearing in mind the assessment being made , especially in the framework of our political dialogue within the association agreements , we continue trying to highlight our concern about the gravity of various situations .
i also agree that there are much worse situations in other countries within the barcelona process , some of which perhaps do not occur to us when we are speaking , which must also be duly assessed .
however , the european union cannot be expected to do the work of the international institutions in this area .
question no 8 by ( h-0457 / 00 ) : subject : significance of euro-11 will the council say on what issues euro-11 has , since coming into existence , taken decisions that have been of political significance to the european union and its member states ?
these meetings are held monthly and before the formal meetings of ecofin which involve all fifteen member states .
euro 11 meetings essentially address issues relating to the specific responsibilities which the eleven countries share in matters involving the single currency .
in all cases where decisions must be taken , ecofin takes these in accordance with the procedures established in the treaty .
there are currently no elements of policy coordination between the countries in euro 11 which naturally affect or should affect their behaviour in ecofin .
however , it makes perfect sense that countries which are part of an effective policy model and which are involved in implementing policies involving , for example , the single currency framework can separately define and coordinate a position .
for a country such as the honourable member ' s perhaps the problem will be solved by being part of the euro council .
what cannot be avoided is that the coordination of the policies of the euro 11 countries , particularly on the single currency , and the effect that these policies have on the overall context of the eu ' s economic and financial policy do not appear to be linked to the eu ' s own coordination .
i know of several cases in which government sectors of eu countries meeting at council level have talked separately and coordinated their positions so that these appear linked in the institutional contexts of the union .
that is true in that case but in the case of euro 11 this is institutionalised in the treaty and it is this which is specified .
i do not see any disadvantage in the existence of various levels of coordination , particularly when these are institutionalised in the treaty itself .
in accordance with the basic regulation of the common fisheries policy , the member states , having notified the commission , may exchange all or part of their fishing quotas .
we therefore cannot find any council document which refers to the exchange of notes between belgium and the united kingdom given that , under community legislation , it is member states which are responsible for deciding this by mutual agreement and given that this does not require approval by the council .
maybe you can slide out of this example and say it is a member state talking to the commission and they send them a letter .
i do not feel that this is a negative practice on the part of the council as we are actually working in line with the provisions of the treaty .
the member states are responsible for assessing the specific projects to be financed by the world bank .
with regard to projects for tibet financed by the european union through its cooperation programme , the eu ' s position is that these projects must benefit native tibetans .
if europe does not stand for human rights then i do not know what it does stand for .
the british government has not yet withdrawn its support and all i ask the president-in-office to do is to remind all member state governments on the council - including britain - that they must not endorse or be seen to endorse illegal acts and abuses of human rights and national rights against the people and the nation of tibet .
the last round which took place in lisbon on 25 february was preceded by a demarche with the chinese authorities which included the problem of human rights in tibet .
no definitive decision has been made within the european union on tackling the basic issue and this is a point which must be raised openly .
in the case of egypt , as has already been said , we have the european-mediterranean programmes and association agreements .
moreover , a 1999 decision of the schengen executive committee approved a mutual aid project for the exchange of officials to give assistance and advice in carrying out security and control tasks at external borders .
in terms of addressing the deep-rooted reasons for people wanting to escape and emigrate from certain african countries , we can refer to the action plan for morocco approved in the council in october 1999 .
this action plan is one of a set of five , each containing an exhaustive and coherent approach focused on the existing situation in a country of origin or transit of asylum-seekers which is regarded as being important .
for each country selected , the action plan presents a balanced combination of options which the european union offers in terms of foreign affairs , development and humanitarian and economic assistance .
in the action plan for morocco , which specifically covers the situation referred to by the honourable member , this country is regarded as a country of origin and transit for economic migration to the european countries .
the measures recommended in this action plan include using existing channels and improving information-gathering , distributing correct information on immigration , creating strategies for combating illegal trafficking and promoting measures intended to apply the readmission agreements .
this requires greater coherence in the internal and external policies of the union which are the responsibility of both the eu and the member states .
partnership with third countries also constitutes a key element in the success of this policy .
the eu is aware that , in order to implement the action plan for morocco , partnership and cooperation with the moroccan authorities will be needed .
in this context , in june of last year , a mission to morocco took place before the action plan was finalised in order to establish a dialogue with the moroccan authorities .
the consolidation of the action plan for morocco is clearly a long-term strategy but it is through the dialogue now under way in this context and on the association council that progress will be made .
as for the possibility of us periodically carrying out a quantitative assessment of these incidents , i believe that the spanish authorities may be able to provide the necessary information in this respect .
we must all realise that the european union has a set of policies which it aims to implement and that these policies involve strategic choices .
we must realise that , in their bilateral relations with morocco , the spanish authorities are currently responsible for solving part of the problem .
the european union is generally involved in a series of projects , in the context of its relations with the southern mediterranean countries , which include projects for development , population settlement and guarantees of improved economic conditions .
question no 12 by ( h-0466 / 00 ) : subject : decision concerning deployment of eu military personnel the decision to strengthen eu emergency forces for crisis management has raised the question of the legal basis for the deployment of eu military personnel .
according to the swedish government 's interpretation of the decision taken at cologne in 1999 , a relevant un security council resolution has to have been adopted .
the need to respect the principles of the un charter and the charter for european security is clearly recognised , so much so that the report to be presented by the portuguese presidency to the feira european council next monday stresses the fact that , in the area of crisis management and conflict prevention , the european union must establish close cooperation with the united nations , the osce and the council of europe .
therefore , only in the latter , for which the use of military force is required , is the existence of a un security council resolution considered necessary .
i should first of all like to know whether the swedish government has informed its colleagues in the council as to whether it is planned to use the veto in the event of an eu action , that is to say an eu military action , being taken in the absence of a decision in the un ' s security council .
some are purely humanitarian , for example rescue tasks .
do you really think that we need to have a un security council resolution in order to carry out a rescue task in a serious humanitarian situation ?
as for the other tasks , we only have to comply with the obligations accepted by the european union in the context of the un , particularly bearing in mind that some eu countries are members of the un security council .
therefore , the spirit of the un charter will naturally be followed in the type of activity which the european union may carry out within those petersberg tasks which do not involve the use of military force .
we expressly accept the need for this security council resolution where military forces are to be used in a given context .
the traditionally neutral countries , particularly the eu member states which are not members of nato , have managed to safeguard all their concerns in achieving this balance because this issue is clearly very delicate for these countries .
the european code of conduct on arms exports , adopted on 8 june 1998 , prohibits exports of arms to countries where there is a risk of the arms being used in an internal conflict .
as you know , the european union ' s position on arms exports is set out in the code of conduct approved in june 1998 .
mr president-in-office of the council , allow me to hide my amazement at your reply .
i fear that the same fate that has befallen our foreign and security policy as a whole , and which has been discussed so many times , will also befall this code of conduct .
the code of conduct was regarded at the time as a very important qualitative step forward in terms of the disparate practices of the member states which existed at that time .
question no 14 by ( h-0474 / 00 ) : subject : restoring normal relations with austria in view of the response given earlier in the year by the council to the recent political developments in austria and of the need to promote the best overall interests of the european community , will the council now state if it is prepared to restore normal relations with austria at every level ?
the council of ministers of the european union does not have to express an opinion on a decision taken by 14 member states in the context of their bilateral relations with austria .
during the term of the portuguese presidency , there has been no working body of the european union in which austria has not had , like this parliament , the option of full and active participation with regard to the whole of the eu ' s operation .
every country has every right , with regard to the development of the political situation in another country , to adopt an attitude and to draw the due consequences from this .
the responsibility for the position taken by the 14 member states was freely assumed by these countries .
it was raised the day before yesterday by the austrian foreign minister in luxembourg and doctor wolfgang schussel will very probably take the opportunity afforded by his presence in santa maria da feira to raise this issue .
what can also not be disputed is that the other governments are free to be unhappy about the austrian government if they consider that this government contains a party which does not respect a set of basic principles which these governments have collectively undertaken to respect and which austria has also undertaken to respect .
with regard to the issue of using the community bodies to raise this issue , we are a free union in that each member state has the right to raise this issue formally or informally in the specific context of the union .
i am not sure what will happen in feira but clearly doctor wolfgang schussel is totally free to express his opinions and to see the reaction of the other member states to his words and arguments .
i would like to hear the views of the portuguese presidency , and maybe other presidencies , when others coming from the extreme right or indeed the extreme left enter government within the union .
someone must take an initiative to resolve this serious problem .
with regard to the result of the austrian elections , i clearly said that we fully respect the result of these elections .
the problem is that the result of this free election , as has happened in the past in other countries , brought a certain party to power .
nothing leads us to believe that there has been any positive change which may justify a new attitude of the european union and , in particular , which may create the opportunity for any type of discussion on this matter within the european union .
since the time allotted to questions to the council has elapsed , questions nos 15 to 28 will be replied to in writing .
by letter of 8 june 2000 , the council requested from parliament its opinion of the proposed council regulation amending regulation ( ec ) no 974 / 98 on the introduction of the euro 2000 / 137 ( cns ) and a proposed council regulation amending regulation ( ec ) no 1103 / 97 which lays down various provisions on the introduction of the euro 2000 / 134 ( cns ) before the european council in feira on 19 june 2000 .
the committee on economic affairs has decided to apply the simplified procedure in accordance with rule 158 of the rules of procedure to both texts .
furthermore , our model of unequal development leads to poverty and indebtedness in these countries .
it is a contradiction to preach the reconstruction of central america taking account of respect for the environment , according to a model of sustainable development , while we continue to maintain the same economic relations with those countries .
the second issue involves the global objective of our assistance .
the commission ' s proposal is sensible insofar as it centres its attention on two fields : health and education .
this requires a substantial increase in our staff , a measure which this house supports .
the threat of hostility between nicaragua and honduras as a result of border disputes would cast doubt upon the good sense of our aid , and we therefore think that both of those countries should be subject to the decisions of the international court of justice .
the other is the recent re-emergence in guatemala of political kidnappings , such as that of the university professor mayra angelina gutierrez , political killings , such as that of the community leader , jose amancio mendoza , or threats against journalists ( the case of gerardi or the nobel prize winner , rigoberta menchu ) which are of concern .
although it is considerable , we believe that the amount indicated by the commission , eur 250 million , is insufficient given the magnitude of the disaster and the slow rate of the area ' s recovery .
we are concerned by the items appearing today in the press indicating that the commission intends to reduce all european union aid , including that destined for latin america , because of its commitments in kosovo .
the european parliament has already stated that it would not commit itself to any action which would mean cuts in the aid to other parts of the world .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , some regions in the world are struck by the hand of fate several times in quick succession .
and then , just a few years ago , these countries were again hard hit , this time by a terrible hurricane , and they are still suffering the consequences .
the committee on budgets supports the idea of earmarking eur 250 million for this region for the period from 1999 to 2004 .
mr president , our committee undoubtedly agrees with mr marset campos ' s report .
the commission , for its part , must set up suitable structures on the ground .
we know that in el salvador , for example , the erstwhile calderon government diverted aid of eur 1 million in order to win votes in the right-wing camp .
the union must also guarantee these countries access to the markets for their products , which must be assessed from both an ecological and a social point of view , because there is little point in giving out aid , on the one hand , and excluding these countries from our markets , on the other .
the countries most affected , honduras and nicaragua , are the poorest in the region .
as the commission has said , the consequences of mitch will considerably reduce the results of the efforts towards economic recovery and investment made there during the last decade by the european union .
in april 1999 , the commission approved a special action plan , provided with eur 250 million , which this parliament fully supports in the terms in which it was approved .
the european parliament - and i believe we should remember this - reacted immediately by calling an extraordinary meeting on 4 november 1998 which was attended by the commissioners then responsible .
in its resolution of 19 november , the european parliament expressed the terms in which the european union would respond to the situation created by hurricane mitch .
i remember the date : november 18-19 1998 .
the countries of central america have taken on very painful processes of structural adjustment which have meant great sacrifices for their societies .
it is now time for our institutions , in the face of a disaster of this type , to be a match for our civil society and for the circumstances .
this resolution has the advantage of going beyond emergencies .
the community action plan is a chance to combine the reconstruction process with an element of change - change which these countries genuinely need - and to invest in a new economic and social development process based on the priorities of health , education and high quality services , which , in these countries , are directly responsible for the quality of life , and , above all , the quality of their democracy .
the resolution explains in great detail that all this is possible provided that two conditions are upheld and satisfied .
to this end , the resolution calls for the european union to have sole responsibility for planning , execution and monitoring of the aid .
however , the second condition is much more important : we need to increase the commission ' s financial and human resources .
the resolution adopted by the european parliament in november 1998 was also a step in this direction in that it referred to the cancellation of the foreign debt of the countries in the region , which amounted to usd 17 billion .
mr president , there is little to add at this point in the debate , especially after the excellent report by mr marset , which i agree with completely .
i think it is particularly important to use the know-how of european organisations and organisations in member states for reconstruction and to involve non-governmental organisations and local experts .
it is paradoxical that nicaragua and honduras , which were two of the least developed countries even before hurricane mitch , fail to qualify for the same treatment as many , many others , such as the acp countries , which we treat well , and rightly so .
in the case of sugar , which is an important product for nicaragua , nicaragua has no access of any importance to european markets .
the third challenge is that we need to fight the causes of these disasters .
i hope that we shall be giving the commission a certain amount of room for manoeuvre in the use of these funds because the speed at which programmes are implemented is often much more important than accounts in black and white down to the last penny .
the eur 250m regional programme for the reconstruction of central america , spread over four years , will contribute to the reconstruction and the transformation of the four countries most devastated by hurricane mitch - honduras , nicaragua , el salvador and guatemala .
the commission is aware that the success of such an ambitious and complex programme also depends on the degree of coordination among the various actors present .
a coordination group is being set up between the commission and the member states .
another important element will be the stockholm follow-up group .
until now the commission has always been involved in an informal way in the activities carried out by this group .
a first report of the activities carried out by the commission has been distributed among the parliamentary committee on industry , external trade , research and energy .
the mobilisation of the statutory personnel necessary for decentralised management and implementation of the programme certainly delayed the rapid launch of the programme , as has been emphasised by several speakers .
the first official will arrive in managua on 17 july and the remaining officials in the following weeks .
the commission is taking all necessary steps so that the programme can be in place and operational within the following three months .
we cited it as an example in our recent proposals for the overall reform of our external assistance programmes .
these include the european community contribution to the hipc debt initiative , and approval of an improved general system of preferences scheme for central america and council regulation of 21 december 1998 applying a multiannual scheme of generalised tariff preferences has been extended to 31 december 2001 .
in addition , the commission is taking part in the hipc debt initiative , contributing some eur 50m to both honduras and nicaragua .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m .
that the treaty of amsterdam moved in this direction was therefore all the more important .
allow me to highlight the main points which i think are important for future asylum procedures .
fourthly : i think that the member states of the eu should be required to draw up a uniform , binding list of countries subject to a visa requirement and safe third countries and countries of origin .
one important point which i should like to address , and which we have made clear several times in the report , is that the burden must be divided between the member states .
common principles were indeed seen as more important than individual political objectives .
the right to asylum is enshrined in various treaties but , because of different definitions and interpretations by national courts , the law is applied to differing degrees .
this obviously contradicts the principles and objectives of the ec treaty , title 4 of which refers to asylum policy as an important means of establishing an area of peace , security and justice .
eight specific points are dealt with : communitisation of the dublin system , eurodac , minimum standards for admission , minimum standards for recognising refugees , minimum standards for granting or withdrawing refugee status , complementary , subsidiary protection , temporary protection for displaced persons and , last but not least , a division of the burden .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i should like to highlight two positive things .
the first is the working document presented by the commission , which was the starting point for the report .
austria , for example , where i come from , is always near the top of the list when it comes to admitting temporary refugees or asylum seekers .
it is an important point , because asylum seekers are entitled to a fast decision and a fast answer on their future status .
the third point is that which gives legal certainty and which , when implemented , helps to ensure that identical decisions are taken in all member states .
it attracted a broad consensus but i fear that this consensus will not perhaps hold up if all the amendments proposed by the greens are included .
assert yourself in your party .
the initiatives of the european union on reuniting families , the anti-discrimination package , temporary protection for war refugees and , at long last , the attempt to harmonise asylum law make this very clear .
mr pirker , i do not see a problem with this - you can reject them again tomorrow .
i hope that we will be able to persuade the member states of the merits of our approach .
clear , well-defined rules governing the matter are also necessary in order to avoid the right to asylum being confused with the problem of immigration .
i used the word ' problem ' intentionally , for the very reason that the absence of an adequate immigration policy has meant that our citizens often perceive all forms of immigration as a problem , a burden and even a hazard , instead of as a social and economic resource and a source of cultural enrichment .
in italy , for example , unregulated or , even worse , illegal immigration is related to organised crime .
there is , without doubt , a great need to clarify the existing differences between the asylum procedure , reception conditions , the interpretation of the definition of a refugee , the links between that asylum procedure and the ' dublin mechanism ' procedures and other forms of protection and , in this respect , this document perfectly focuses the debate .
secondly , i would like to say that this report has one virtue which i would like to highlight amongst others - although i have been critical on some points - and that is that it very much insists on legal certainty , on judicial safeguards , on the asylum seeker ' s right to defence and , in particular , on everything contained in point 4 and , of course , on everything relating to legal assistance , with the possibility of making contact with ngos and the unhcr .
therefore , mr president , i hope that certain groups , and in particular the ppe group , will reconsider this amendment , which takes up the amendment of the group of the greens precisely .
it takes up an amendment of the group of the greens which was not approved in committee and i believe it should receive the support of the house .
as i said , perhaps you are right , but if we are talking about the individual right to asylum , then this also implies that there must be an individual examination in special cases .
that also forms part of the legal framework .
the disappearance of internal borders and the creation of the area of freedom , security and justice require us to make an effort to harmonise our asylum and immigration policies and to reinforce checks at external borders .
this disproportion is bad for the european union as a whole because it creates inequalities between member states .
mr president , having seen over the years very difficult discussions in parliament relating to this subject , it is indeed a pleasure for me this evening to see such widespread support for this report .
it is a good working document and we have a good basis to start working , so i congratulate the commission as well .
reception countries are happily turning a blind eye to the people passing through their countries on the way to third countries .
cooperation between police forces , where there is widespread information on prostitution amongst young girls in the member states , has unfortunately to be an intrinsic part of our asylum policy .
what is clear , particularly in my own country at the moment , is that we must challenge the alarming rise in racism and xenophobia within our communities .
it is a deeply disturbing phenomenon in my own country .
the commission has now received reactions on this working document from several member states , from numerous ngos , and with the report of parliament , will be in a position to fulfil one of the commitments of the scoreboard , which is to present a directive on minimum standards for asylum procedures .
it is my intention to present this proposal for a directive in the autumn of 2000 .
i should like to remind the house that the commission proposed to the tampere european council to adopt a single european asylum system .
but the decision of the european council in tampere was to endorse an approach based on minimum common standards .
so the directive is , in my opinion , the most relevant instrument to address these minimum standards for asylum procedures which will have to reflect the cornerstones of the policy of the european union with regard to asylum as was underscored by the european council in tampere : an absolute respect for the right to seek asylum , a full and inclusive application of the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees and maintaining the principle of non-refoulement .
the commission welcomes the approach the european parliament has taken in many parts of the motion for a resolution .
the commission endorses the recital calling for asylum policy to be conducted on as factual a basis as possible .
we have to recognise that finding a balanced solution between simplifying the procedures on the one hand and guaranteeing legal certainty and respect for the rights of asylum seekers on the other hand is not an easy task .
the commission shares the view of the european parliament that entry of asylum seekers , migration for economic or other reasons and temporary admittance of displaced persons and refugees in the event of a mass influx must be treated as entirely separate matters .
on 24 may 2000 the commission adopted a directive on minimum standards for giving temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons and on measures promoting a balance of effort between member states in receiving such persons and bearing the consequences thereof .
i should like to say that this proposal on temporary protection addresses explicitly the question raised by several speakers on burden-sharing as we have adopted an approach on burden-sharing on the proposal we have already submitted to the council for a european fund for refugees .
so i should like to stress that this proposal cannot be seen as separate from the other proposals that are already on the table and that they take into account the sensitive question of solidarity among member states .
to achieve the first step , the commission will not only come up with a proposal for a directive on common standards for fair and efficient asylum procedures , which we are now discussing , but will also bring forward , inter alia and as soon as possible , proposals on the determination of the state responsible for the examination of an application and on common minimum conditions for reception of asylum seekers .
i should like to remind the house that , as i have already said , we have already put forward for consultation by member states a working document that aims to replace the dublin convention by a community regulation , having in mind the concrete experience and the vulnerabilities and deficiencies that have arisen in the application of the dublin convention .
with regard to the second step , the tampere conclusions invited the commission to come forward with a communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those who are granted asylum valid throughout the union .
it is my intention that by the end of the year 2000 this communication will be brought forward .
the commission notes - as has been emphasised by several speakers - that the european parliament has taken a general position on rationalising community law on asylum matters in this resolution .
the commission will not only study the resolution very carefully in order to prepare its proposal for a directive on common standards on asylum procedures - that i reiterate will be presented in the autumn of this year - but will also reflect on them whilst preparing the communication it will put forward by the end of this year on a common asylum procedure in the long term .
i sincerely feel encouraged by the fact that this communication has such broad support in the house .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
it points out that within an area of freedom , justice and security within the european union , citizens must be entitled to effective legal protection .
the commission would also like to launch a discussion on the treatment of victims and would like to see measures taken to improve their plight .
the measures proposed in the commission communication appear to be geared exclusively towards victims from one member state in another member state , or third country victims legally resident in one member state in another member state .
however , the package of measures should also take account of member state victims in third countries and third country citizens illegally resident in a member state .
since they are concerned with both civil and criminal procedures , the treaties provide the european union with instruments for increasing the protection of crime victims on its territory .
the scoreboard submitted by the commission for reviewing progress in implementing the area of liberty , security and justice should be modified in such a way as to guarantee and speed up the legislative follow-up to the present directive .
i would also draw attention to the importance of a legal basis for , and harmonisation of , the measures for protecting victims .
the useful experience available in respect of existing measures in certain member states can play an important role in harmonising measures or drawing up a common package of measures .
finally , pending the introduction of a harmonised instrument for cross-border protection of victims , the member states themselves and the candidate countries , in conjunction with ngos , will need to enhance the protection of victims .
this applies to all the european institutions .
the best way of preventing crime is to disseminate information .
crime victims ought also to know to what rights and possible forms of aid they are in fact entitled .
the commission ' s proposal involves introducing minimum standards for receiving crime victims with a view to being able to provide them with information and support where necessary .
it is difficult for foreign crime victims to follow the legal proceedings at a distance , which is why special measures are also required to guarantee the legal position of foreign crime victims .
however , it is also essential that we consider the people most affected by crime : its victims .
mr president , i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report .
it is therefore crucial that we use these powers to improve the position of victims of crime .
we must in particular draw attention to intrusion or possible intrusion by the press .
i am particularly pleased that this report includes support in the language or dialect of the victim of crime because sometimes that is an area that is overlooked .
ethnic minorities , very often women , children - those who sometimes find the system difficult - will be the ones who are most at risk in this sort of situation .
the pse group is pleased to support this report and to congratulate the rapporteur .
i think , for example , of some of the conclusions of the wergens report , and we would have expected more from the commission than proposals for greater dialogue and the exchange of best practice .
we need clear measures to help victims with access to assistance , justice and compensation .
however , it must be said that if we feel the commission could do more , the biggest problem is by far the member states .
it seems to us incredible that seven member states have still not ratified the 1983 convention on compensation for victims of violent crime and that standards of justice are still so low in so many member states .
let me give just one brief example from my own constituency .
he does not have access to legal aid in the netherlands .
unless we are able as a union to help in relatively clear and simple situations like this , our citizens will not have confidence in the single market and will not feel part of the european union .
i hope that we can take up some of the ideas put forward in this report to improve their situation .
mr president , i would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur , patsy sorensen , for the care and accuracy of her report .
on the other hand , i would like to focus my attention on the presentation of various amendments to the draft text which include people affected by terrorism as the victims of crime in the eu .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur for her valuable work .
people have to enjoy true justice without having to pay for it .
the minimum level of legal protection in the member states of the eu must not be allowed to slip to that which exists in the united states .
the eu and its member states must also ensure that the victims of crime do not have to suffer twice over for the wrong done them .
eu member states must develop more effective cooperation among the authorities in post-trial situations , for example , in the areas of plaintiff and witness protection programmes .
mr president , i welcome the commission communication on victims of crime in the european union , since it studies the process of creating common policies , as well as greater cooperation between the member states at a time when we are all aware , including this parliament of course , of the need for this type of communitisation .
one is the sensitivity it shows by specifically highlighting the fact that there are certain social groups - women , children , immigrants , homosexuals - who are more vulnerable than the rest of the population , as well as the fact that there are also certain sectors who , ignoring the most basic democratic principles , prefer to use violence to impose their objectives .
from another point of view and bearing in mind the ever increasing importance and influence of the media in our society , special attention should be paid to the way in which the media deal with the reality of these people , which is not always respectful of individual rights , above all when we are talking about minors , whether they be victims or delinquents .
with regard to these people it is also necessary to apply certain measures so that they can rebuild their lives correctly , not only from an economic point of view , but also through psychological , legal , medical and social assistance .
i must finally stress my deep concern about the need to pay due attention to the victims of terrorism , since these are people who suffer from a very serious and specific form of crime which , unfortunately , does not only take place in my country , spain , and which threatens democratic coexistence and freedom .
mr president , as the commission says in the introduction to its communication , we cannot seriously speak of a citizens ' europe without dealing with the rights of victims .
this is a balanced report which has been sensitive to the victims of terrorism , because if there are three groups of victims which must receive our special attention , they are , as the treaty says , victims of trafficking in human beings , victims of crime against children and victims of terrorism .
it should be noted that the commission communication differs from this in offering a broader approach to issues of the european level protection of victims of crime .
this broader approach takes the view that the issue of victims also necessitates work on prevention , information , practical help and the status of victims in criminal trials .
that is why it declared that it is in the union ' s interest to adopt minimum standards for the protection of victims of crime , specifically with regard to access to justice for these victims and their right to compensation , including the reimbursement of their legal fees .
this issue must not only be addressed at european level , but the tampere council also recommends establishing national programmes to finance both public and non-governmental measures for the assistance and protection of victims .
the commission agrees fully with the approach for the need to develop victim support networks , particularly language support .
by the same token , we share the rapporteur ' s concern at the special attention that needs to be paid to particular categories of victim , such as foreign nationals , minors , and victims of sexual violence , the trade in human beings or terrorist acts .
we are paying close attention to a proposal for a framework decision on the protection of victims in europe , which is already under consideration by the council .
we are already establishing contacts with the future swedish presidency , which , this autumn , with support from the grotius programme , will be organising a special seminar specifically on compensation mechanisms .
similarly , in a very practical move , the commission has already decided to carry out a study into the feasibility of establishing a european victim aid system in the form of a free multilingual telephone helpline .
many members have expressed regret that the commission ' s scoreboard only provides for measures on aid for crime victims from 2004 onwards .
nevertheless , as you see , the commission is already committed to working without delay on this issue , which is so important for the people of europe , and i hope that we will have achieved tangible results even before 2004 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow , at 12 noon .
it is important to smes , it is important to the public sector , it is probably a far more important instrument for promoting employment than many of the resolutions passed here in this house .
in addition - and this was an important point - the principle of equal treatment between the public and private sectors has been acknowledged .
this does not figure in the directive but , in my experience as an mep , we often hear complaints when we visit smes and large companies alike , that the commission is often far too late honouring the payment commitments which it has entered into in research promotion or other areas .
i hope that the commission will be guided by the spirit of this directive and make its own payments on time , because here too , i repeat , this is breach of contract .
what i can say is that the negotiations between the european parliament and the council were a most pleasant experience .
of course , i can say now that it was a pleasant experience because the outcome has been extremely positive for parliament .
mr president , i have already received many reactions from within the sme world to the text that we will be adopting tomorrow and , partly on behalf of all these smes , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work .
mr president , as early as in 1993 - at the very outset of the internal market - we , together with parliament , asked the commission to submit a proposal to regulate late payments .
i have another question for the commission .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in my view , this directive is , without doubt , the most important directive for the small and family-run businesses of europe .
the stronger the partner , the more power he has to make a business wait .
now , with the treaty of amsterdam , we may have a clearer legal basis , but we must make a great effort to establish effective coordination and harmonisation in all of these areas .
in fact , you will be aware that public companies settle within a certain period , and this time limit means that it will no longer be possible for private companies who deal with the public sector to impose large , excessive burdens on public companies .
mr president , in one way it is a good thing that the public in the 15 european states does not take too much notice of what we are doing , especially on evenings such as this where you , mr president , the commissioner , seven members and roughly the same number of officials must stand by our posts .
there is a proverb in italian : non e mai troppo tarde - it is never too late !
but it is too late for many small and medium-sized enterprises , family businesses and young entrepreneurs .
mr president , i had asked the commission whether it intended to submit a proposal on conditions for the setting up , and mutual recognition of , debt-collecting agencies in europe .
i would like to ask you whether you are prepared to write a letter or contact the austrian government to express your concern about the restriction of the freedom of expression and to point out the obligations which the government has in this respect and which it cannot escape unilaterally .
thank you , mrs buitenweg .
we are investigating the matter you have just told us about very carefully .
madam president , yesterday , the european parliament decided by democratic majority no longer to convene in strasbourg on fridays .
everyone has their own personal and political responsibility .
mrs van der laan , you will agree that even when entrusted with the office of president of the european parliament , we remain free politicians .
madam president , i would like to make you aware of something very inconvenient which happened to me which , in my opinion , undermines the dignity of the members of this parliament .
mr mauro , what happened to you is totally unacceptable .
please let me have a note as soon as possible so that i can take it up with the authorities concerned .
i have a letter from you , madam president , dated 6 april , in which it was agreed by the college of quaestors that the area around the chambers in brussels and strasbourg should be regarded as a neutral zone in which demonstrations , exhibitions or similar activities intended to influence members would not be tolerated .
i hope that you and the college of quaestors will take this seriously because it is an encroachment on the right of members to come to this house and vote freely on issues that their electors have sent them here to debate .
the portuguese presidency has always tried to maintain a frank , open and constructive relationship with the european parliament , both with the plenary and its committees .
it is in this spirit that i will present our preview of the feira european council .
lunch will be devoted to the intergovernmental conference and , in particular , closer cooperation .
the afternoon session will be devoted to the issues of enlargement of the union , the common european security and defence policy and external relations .
the intergovernmental conference will come to the european council through the presentation of a report by the presidency .
i would highlight the formation and entry into force of the new political and military bodies and civilian crisis management bodies for the first time in the history of the european union and also the approval of the rules governing relations between the eu and nato and between the eu and third countries .
the decision taken on the location of all these bodies , in terms of buildings and installations , should also be stressed .
we have also recognised full applicant status for turkey , approved the framework regulation and accession partnership , and also a unique financial framework , and we have held the first association council with a view to adequately preparing for assessment .
as for the state of enlargement negotiations , given that yesterday and the day before we held 12 consecutive intergovernmental accession conferences with the 12 applicants , the following negotiating chapters are now closed : 16 with cyprus , 13 with estonia and the czech republic , 12 with slovenia , 11 with hungary and poland , 7 with malta , 6 with slovakia , 5 with romania , latvia and lithuania and 4 with bulgaria .
the potential of this new model of external representation of the union is considerable and it is fair to say that the next few months will demonstrate this .
the presidency has already drawn up and submitted the report on the intergovernmental conference .
in the oral question to the commission , we requested clarification regarding its undertaking to reorganise the treaties and provide a fresh perspective on the problems of governance , points on which the commission had already made its opinion clear .
in our oral question to the council , we requested clarification of the issue of the charter of fundamental rights and its incorporation into the treaties .
the importance of the feira summit has been rightly highlighted at this delicate stage in the process of european integration and i want to start by saying that the commission expects this european council to provide the political impetus for adapting the union before the great enlargement .
both mr napolitano and mr gama mentioned the first : genuine institutional reform right now .
the commission is committed to effective and rapid follow-up to the lisbon european council - that is the least that might be expected of it .
i would also like to testify here , if i may , madam president - because i participate conscientiously in the work of the group - to the very active part taken in that work , under your authority , by your two representatives , elmar brok and professor tsatsos .
ladies and gentlemen , with the presidency report now available , the feira european council should give us a snapshot of the progress accomplished so far and i hope that snapshot will be ' proactive ' - as we can expect after listening to mr gama .
i am especially thinking of the progress on what i consider the most important item in the negotiations : the extension of qualified majority voting and , consequently , the extension of codecision .
in the debate now in progress about the future and purpose of the european union , the essential first stage is definitely putting the union into working order now to make the enlargement a success .
the draft basic treaty , presented at our request by the institute of florence does , i think , demonstrate the legal feasibility of this exercise .
but as you yourself have said , madam president , we must at least make a start on it , at the latest in nice .
mr napolitano mentioned the report on governance announced by president prodi .
the commission hopes the work of the convention drafting this charter will be completed before the end of the year .
the charter should create added value , without affecting the acquis in the treaty , by codifying in a single text all the fundamental rights upheld by the union and adding the fundamental economic and social rights which form a part of that acquis , plus some new limited rights .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to talk about the commission ' s second great priority : the development of foreign policy and a genuine european security and defence policy .
as the council president mentioned , following helsinki , negotiations are now in progress with all the candidate countries .
that said , from now on , we who are already in the union must set out to explain the coming great enlargement better and give the citizens of our countries better information about it .
that is what the initiative taken with you by gunther verheugen is about , and we attach great importance to this public debate he will be taking part in , because we are aware of a feeling of disquiet among citizens in all our countries , a need to understand , and a growing sensitivity to the issue of enlargement .
the defence ministers have been involved in that work and at feira the european council will be presented with a progress report measuring , as you said , minister , what has been accomplished under the portuguese presidency , and it will draw up guidelines for the work ahead .
the commission is contributing actively to these developments , in particular as regards civilian crisis management .
on this point , chris patten recently submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council , to create a rapid reaction force .
the commission has also undertaken an in-depth review of its own organisation and procedures in the area of foreign policy , in order to adapt them to these new challenges .
under foreign policy , the european council will in particular be debating the situation in the western balkans and the implementation of the common strategy towards russia .
the council should also adopt the common strategy for the mediterranean region .
for the western balkans , the commission will continue to work with the member states and with the secretary general , javier solana , to achieve a rapprochement , a real rapprochement , between the countries concerned and the european union , through a stabilisation and association process .
first , the european commission , along with the entire international community , was delighted at the israeli government ' s decision of 24 may to withdraw from south lebanon , in line with united nations security council resolutions 425 and 426 .
we should pay tribute to the prime minister of the state of israel , ehud barak , for having taken this difficult decision after 22 years of occupation .
the commission has already sent a mission to evaluate reconstruction needs in situ .
likewise , following the death of president harez el assad , the union must also encourage a smooth political transition process in syria , as well as continuing economic reform and modernisation in that country through a strengthening of the rule of law , through a strengthening of human rights and through political pluralism .
talks between syria and israel will be able to find fresh impetus in this new political context and could lead to a just and durable peace agreement .
finally , the feira european council ' s agenda will include the common mediterranean strategy , which many of you , quite rightly , value highly .
not only will it contribute to strengthening the barcelona process with a view to the forthcoming euro-mediterranean summit in marseilles , it will also help consolidate the european union ' s contribution to the peace process .
finally , madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i want to talk about the effective and rapid follow-up to the lisbon european council , which the commission is very committed to , just as it is committed to the proper preparation of this council .
that is reflected in falling unemployment rates everywhere , even though there are still too many pockets of poverty within the member states .
in this improved context , the commission , the council and parliament must act together to make the lisbon objectives a reality , not contenting ourselves with words and hopes , but putting them into practice .
together with the council , we have presented a draft action plan to make the eeurope initiative a reality as from 2002 .
feira should approve this plan and i want to underline two key factors in the programme presented by erkki liikanen : first the reform of the regulatory environment for communications and electronic commerce , then , access for all citizens , especially young people , to the resources and qualifications needed in the communication and information age .
the high level working group on social protection is preparing its interim report on the modernisation and improvement of social protection .
i also want to stress the major role played by this house in all these issues .
we trust the feira european council will acknowledge all the progress made .
but the european council must also provide fresh impetus for intensifying these efforts , particularly in the areas where short term action is still necessary to achieve the lisbon objectives .
all this requires a commitment from all the operators involved and the political impetus to introduce the necessary measures , but in our turn we must convert this political will , ladies and gentlemen , when the time comes , into priority expenditure , both by the union and by the member states .
there again , perhaps feira can point us in that direction .
first , the one pedro solbes will report on : the main economic policy guidelines and the coordination that goes with them , essential for a better balance between the two pillars of economic and monetary union .
we are persuaded that the guidelines thus defined are , with the luxembourg , cardiff and cologne processes , essential for proper progress towards the lisbon objectives .
finally , the fiscal package .
on 18 june there will be a special ecofin council , and we hope it will open the way to an agreement , provided all the parties demonstrate goodwill and a desire to reach a conclusion .
i want to say , on behalf of the commission , how very active the portuguese presidency really has been .
but a european council is also the result of the effort made by each institution .
so i feel sure that the effort everyone has made will result in the feira european council making progress possible on all these fundamental issues , responding better to the challenges of the union as a whole , responding better to the expectations of the citizens of our fifteen countries , but also to the expectations i mentioned just now , those of the citizens of the twelve countries of central , eastern , baltic and mediterranean europe who are soon going to join us .
thank you , mr barnier .
madam president , mr president-in-office , commissioner barnier , ladies and gentlemen , next week ' s summit in feira could be an important summit if the work it is to do is carried out properly .
the procedures to be agreed in feira for the future of the european union represent a significant step along this path .
firstly , the intergovernmental conference must be concluded in nice this winter , but not just for the sake of completing it , but rather in order to achieve a satisfactory outcome .
secondly , we witnessed major changes in europe in 1989-90 , not to mention before and since then .
the peoples of central europe are anxious to join our community of values .
we must not create the impression that these central european peoples are not welcome in our community of values .
i would like to call on you personally to do everything in your power to make sure that we send a signal to the peoples of central europe that they are welcome to join us !
you have talked about extending the agenda for the intergovernmental conference .
commissioner barnier has talked about majority voting .
commissioner barnier talked about a basic treaty .
i support the endeavours to create a strong europe , indeed we have always supported them , but in the framework of the western alliance , and not separately from our american friends , but complementing them and as partners with equal rights .
if we want to supplement article 191 of the treaty , and the commission is to present a proposal to the igc to that effect , then it must be possible to deal with this at the igc and ultimately to supplement the treaty if we are to make progress on the subject of european political parties .
this is about paragraph 8 of the political groups ' motion for a resolution .
mr president-in-office , everyone will probably see this differently , but this issue is casting a shadow over the european union .
we know that in denmark , support for the euro in the run-up to the referendum in september is rapidly waning because of the austrian issue , as in denmark , this is viewed as interference in the internal affairs of the smaller states .
if you succeed , it will be a success for all of us , for the entire continent of europe !
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , it is no cliche to say that , on the eve of the european council in feira , this is a decisive moment for the european union .
this debate reflects the political will of the group of the party of european socialists , and also parliament as a whole , who wish to achieve an ambitious agenda for the intergovernmental conference .
with regard to the intergovernmental conference , it is important that president herzog appears before the european council in feira .
i would like to point out that , when we talk about the community of values , - and there have been recent opportunities to do so , such as the formation of the new austrian government - we must demand that the charter of fundamental rights be clearly included in the treaty in order to fulfil the purpose of articles 6 and 7 of that treaty .
furthermore , although the treaty of the european union recognises european citizenship , until now , economic and social , individual and collective rights have not been developed .
it is completely contradictory to have citizenship without rights .
one is , for parliament , that decisions made by qualified majority should be accompanied by the codecision procedure , and the second point is that we must favour integration over closer cooperation , because what we are actually doing is integrating .
in the economic field , what we need is greater coordination of economic , social and employment policies .
we must implement the conclusions of the european council in lisbon , which are positive and have achieved a broad consensus in this parliament as well , but this requires that we increase our capacity for economic government .
i believe that it is also important for the commission , with regard to the balkans , to take account of the fact that there is a country which could become a bridge - having before been a barrier - towards the balkans , and that is croatia .
finally , i would like to say a few words about the middle east .
i agree that the israeli withdrawal from southern lebanon is very important and we must support barak , but we should also intensify our partnership with syria and lebanon .
we must have an active policy in order to contribute towards resolving the dramatic problem of the palestinian refugees , and we can actively offer ideas and resources in order to ensure that the middle east peace process will make decisive progress , which would also lead to a greater opening up and intensification of the euro-mediterranean process .
all of these elements are on the agenda and i hope that the european council in feira will make progress .
madam president , i should like , on behalf of the liberal democrat group , to begin by recording our thanks to the portuguese presidency and our appreciation of its willingness to engage constantly with this parliament , with its committees and with its groups .
i cite qualified majority voting as an example .
we are prepared to engage in the debate on closer cooperation and welcome the way it has been put to us by a number of important political personalities outside this house .
but there are some caveats : we hope that speculation on long-term reform will not be the enemy of necessary radical reform in the immediate period ahead .
we believe it is important not to signal to existing member states or to candidate states that any of us would contemplate a europe of first- and second-class citizens in terms of statehood and membership .
my group would appreciate it if the council at feira would try to make an evaluation of the quality of relations between the fourteen and austria .
i asked him to send to me a copy of the list that is available of persons and agencies in civil society in austria who have become isolated from various educational , social or cultural events in europe .
regardless of intergovernmental diplomacy , it is intolerable that we should isolate the common citizens of a state .
if there is any way that we in parliament and my group can assist , we are ready to try to do so .
relations between the european union and nato are converging so quickly that the non-aligned countries are in a very precarious situation , although they want to make a full contribution to the promotion of national security .
i was recently in new york at a conference on women ' s issues .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , a year ago , almost to the day , the european elections were marked by massive abstentions , confirming that there is a crisis of confidence amongst citizens as regards the european institutions .
when you were preparing for the portuguese presidency , mr president-in-office , i presume you were determined to send a strong message to the public .
and you effectively relaunched the idea of full employment , emphasised the importance of lifelong training , and stressed the considerable challenge represented by the information revolution .
madam president , president-in-office , ladies and gentlemen , the feira european council represents a fresh opportunity for this house to express its opinion on the various political issues forming the eu agenda .
firstly , on austria , clearly we do not harbour any sympathies for political extremism but we must condemn the ill-timed reaction of 14 member states to the formation of a democratically elected government before this had even had the chance to start governing .
the portuguese presidency was willing to take on the role of spokesperson for the member states last february , wrongly in our opinion , despite the issue always having been a bilateral issue , as was clearly agreed between the 14 member states .
the distinctive act of the portuguese presidency should be to recognise and defend political equality between the member states as a corollary to maintaining the balance between the large and small countries and between these and the european union itself .
this will should be shown through three essential aspects : firstly the defence of the major european causes of peace , freedom and economic and social development which must underlie the negotiations with the applicant countries ; secondly the promotion of the merit of each country as the only condition to be imposed on accession , and thirdly the maintenance of the economic and social cohesion of the current 15 member states .
austria , the intergovernmental conference , the charter of fundamental rights and enlargement are four issues requiring four different responses .
this is what we expect from the meeting at feira of the heads of state and government on the portuguese presidency .
mr president , president gama , commissioner barnier , in feira , france will take over from portugal to complete the igc , the impossible reform of taxation on savings , the charter of fundamental rights , defence policy , and sanctions against austria .
portugal has had a difficult presidency , with the collapse of the euro , and the collapse of the new economy , and , in lisbon , had to deal with many problems like unemployment , the loss of macao , the arrival of imitation port from south africa , and even the arrival of the great criminal rezala in your country , mr president .
the broadcasting rights could be paid to kosovo , iraq or the victims of the construction of europe .
in official speeches , everyone welcomes enlargement of the eu from 15 to 30 member states , but that objective is receding ever further , and more and more obstacles are being placed in the path of the unification of europe ' s nation states .
the feira summit will give the green light particularly to close cooperation between the most developed and the most federally minded nations .
human rights , the arts , transport and foreign and security policy could also become areas for which european bodies such as the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe are responsible .
the common market could also , of course , be opened up to all european countries .
mr president , dismayed as i am about the continuing prejudgement of austria by 14 member states , i would like to stress that the santa maria da feira summit will be vital for the further development of the european union .
for one thing , it will determine whether the portuguese presidency will go down in history as the presidency which upheld the wrongful decision on the part of those 14 member states against austria , or , instead , as the presidency which found a way out of this unfortunate period of disregard for european solidarity and lack of respect for the democratic processes within member states .
over a year ago , it looked as if the disastrously low turnout in the european elections would at least have the helpful effect of initiating a fundamental debate about the structure of the european union .
the programme we have heard today does not give us cause for any great hope .
mr president , the forthcoming european council in feira will mark the end of the portuguese presidency of the european union .
we do not understand why the president-in-office has allowed confusion to arise between his institutional position as president of the european union and his role as spokesperson for the bilateral decisions of 14 member states against one .
the portuguese presidency assumed a special responsibility in this issue and we hope that it will solve the problem at the feira european council so that this does not become a sore point within the european union .
the idea that everything will be decided at the last minute seems too much a justification of a fait accompli policy and must be rejected immediately .
we therefore hope that the feira european council will produce not just a statement of positions but also a plan , a project or an idea on the changes to the intergovernmental conference .
on this third point we had the opportunity yesterday to debate the proposals with the presidency and in particular the issues which will be on the agenda at feira .
the second point of the triangle is social and economic cohesion .
with regard to the issues of racism and xenophobia , we must fight these at the roots and prevent them from gaining ground and being used in speeches of the extreme right which we all reject but which it seems that some only reject in speeches but not in practice .
this parliament contributed positively and constructively , as commissioner barnier witnessed , so that the work of the igc could be started in february .
mr president , the drafting of the charter has now reached a critical phase .
we have drafted 60 clauses and provoked 1000 amendments .
this prejudice must be suppressed by the feira council if the project is to succeed .
mr president , commissioner , mr president-in-office of the council , the european union will only be able to play its historic role if it decides to be more than the sum of its member states .
as representatives of the european peoples without their own state , we want the european union to be a community of citizens , on the one hand , and correspond to the reality of peoples and regions and their political entities , on the other .
in our opinion , the institutional reforms which it is hoped feira will bring are sound but insufficient in our eyes .
we fear , for example , that the refusal to develop a true federal authority will result in a common foreign and security policy which cannot really function properly .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the portuguese presidency has certainly had a difficult task this semester , for it had to set in motion an intergovernmental conference which will finish during the term of the next presidency and , therefore , there was every possibility that governments would be uncooperative and play for time so that the next presidency would reap the benefits of the work carried out .
certainly , we expected more from this first stage of the intergovernmental conference .
from the point of view of the institutions , the current impasse is certainly extremely serious .
today , the european parliament is going to call strongly upon the portuguese presidency to uphold the need for integration , for political will , or the european union crisis will become a general crisis , as minister joschka fischer quite rightly pointed out yesterday .
the institutions of the european union , and this house in particular , have still not grasped this very elementary insight .
on 28 september of this year , the danish people , who have the privilege of being able to vote in referenda , will send out a decisive signal when we vote against joining the euro .
this ' no ' vote will , first of all , mean that our friends and brethren in sweden and great britain will also vote against and , secondly , it will send out a crucial signal to the summits in feira and nice to the effect that one ought to be guided by the terrain , which is more important than the ideological map .
it is based on fundamental principles , listed in article 6 of the treaty , which many of us have seen called into question in one particular member state .
in the ppe we have analysed - in my humble opinion , objectively and competently - the political situation in austria and we have agreed , within our political family , on a system of conditions and of monitoring which we pray will make a positive contribution to the resolution of this crisis .
these have been lively months internationally .
israel , syria and the lebanon are living through intense time in terms of national politics , as has been said this morning in this house .
i believe that these circumstances offer a new opportunity for definitive peace in the region .
therefore , we have to demand of our heads of government and of the european commission that they take the responsibility which the circumstances demand of the european union , by increasing our joint political presence , of course , but also in the economic field , concluding the associations agreements once and for all , and implementing the barcelona agreements more quickly .
we also think it is important to mention that the conference agenda is a full one , and we are expecting a positive result from it - a result which allows the european union to operate in its present state .
but these are two parallel exercises .
i also hope the intergovernmental conference agenda will be flexible enough for us to be in a position to add an item or two , here or there , depending on the progress of the work .
i am also thinking about the reform of article 7 .
the debate initiated by president herzog ' s speech must clearly highlight the european council ' s commitment to the indivisibility of rights and the convention ' s task of drafting a charter rich in content , which respects the full cologne mandate , civil and political rights , but also economic and social rights .
yes , but what use will it be to incorporate a charter if the content is disappointing ?
but for that it seems to me we also need the debate at the feira european council to give us a political signal .
the presidency has just announced that closer cooperation will be discussed at the intergovernmental conference .
however , there are many different ways of defining closer cooperation and , in our opinion , certain criteria must be respected .
the first is total observance of the acquis communautaire ; the second is the abolition of the right of veto for every member state ; the third is full respect of the roles of parliament , the commission and the court of justice in the decision-making procedures with regard to the initial introduction and implementation of closer cooperation .
this charter will only be a success if it has binding legal status - its content must , of course , be sound , but it must also have legal status - or it will serve absolutely no purpose - and if it includes other new rights such as the right to a safe environment and a number of fundamental social rights such as the right to belong to a trade union and the right to strike .
mr president , i would also like to draw the attention of the portuguese presidency to the fact that the aim of article 8 of our resolution is , from within the european parliament , to make a positive contribution to resolving the running conflict with austria .
i am therefore urging you to also assess the actions of the austrian government and to look for creative solutions in order to break the deadlock .
mr president , many have already pointed to the need for enlargement and the fear that has swept countries in central and eastern europe that , with regard to the igc , too little progress is being made and that , along with this , the chance for rapid enlargement will pass .
finally , mr president , good governance is all well and good in theory , but let us also look at what is happening in practice .
if the kosovo agency in thessaloniki is still caught up in so much red-tape that funding cannot be made available , then this is extremely serious .
jacques chirac and gerhard schroder announced that their countries are prepared for deeper integration as a core group , failing , however , to illustrate its nature or extent .
mr president , i believe that the quantity and quality of the speakers on the charter of fundamental rights illustrates the importance this house attaches to it .
i believe that it would be of great help to the convention if , in its conclusions , the european council could make a statement on the future of the charter , because it appears at the moment that its formulation has demonstrated that the charter is of interest to the people .
the participation of the ngos , the participation of ordinary people , clearly show that europeans are interested in the charter of fundamental rights .
the institutional questions of the intergovernmental conference are enormously important , but they do not reach the people .
i believe that the charter of fundamental rights does reach the people .
therefore , mr president-in-office of the council , i pray that in the feira conclusions , which we will all read with enormous interest , the charter will receive the boost that it deserves , so that the convention will be able to complete its work properly .
in that way we will fulfil the mandate of salvador de madariaga , for whom europe would become a reality only when it is a reality in the minds of the citizens .
this european council , as has been said , will have a very full agenda with the intergovernmental conference , the approval to include closer cooperation and other items .
on the contrary , it is advancing on both its internal fronts and also in external relations , which is extremely important .
all these points are extremely important .
as you know , this is a bilateral issue between 14 countries , which are also member states , and one country which is a member state too .
mr poettering and mr baron crespo , i hereby confirm the commitment i made to you yesterday on behalf of the commission on the status of european political parties .
the commission will shoulder its responsibilities .
and , with the support of your president , it is planning to use the next trialogue to identify the ideal approach , in agreement with the three institutions , but in the meantime we are getting the initiative ready .
you are right to highlight the strategic nature of the country , formerly part of yugoslavia .
mr president , the commission is currently preparing for negotiations which should open before the end of the year for an association and stabilisation agreement with croatia .
mr president , the commission is doing its duty and shouldering its responsibilities .
this is particularly true when it is faithful to the guidelines and decisions of a european council .
mr wurtz , you know very well that brussels is not the only place , and i smile when i say this , where politicians of right or left meet employers .
mr fischer and others have provided oxygen , a horizon .
the first deadline to be met , as you said , mr president , is the reform deadline so that we are in a good position to undertake enlargement and also so that other reforms can follow .
so let us keep to those deadlines and dedicate ourselves , in the few months that lie ahead , to success in the negotiations .
and , as far as i am concerned , the quality of reform is more important than the timetable .
with the portuguese presidency coming to an end and the french presidency about to begin , we must now put all our energies into achieving real reform at nice to make enlargement possible , as well as other reforms later , if need be .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today .
we should not allow this plenary session to pass without paying some attention to the fact that the nobel laureate and sakharov prize winner , aung san suu kyi , is still denied her freedom .
next monday , aung san suu kyi will be 55 years old .
the military junta in burma refused permission for him to see her .
i think that it would have been better if the majority in this house had paid greater attention to the legal basis and had checked it more carefully , and if it had paid more attention to the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market on that matter .
but , in addition , there is another error , namely that the following words have been included in the english text : " with all the parties in the eu concerned , " and those words are quite simply not included in the danish text .
i would urge that a correct danish translation of the text be obtained , for i find it a very serious matter that , in point 8 concerning austria , these two mistakes have been made which , from a political point of view , completely alter the sense .
reference is made to a ' european interparliamentary body on security and defence ' .
initially i had proposed the term ' forum ' , but discussions in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy produced a compromise and we agreed o use an equivalent of the french ' organe ' instead .
but i wanted to highlight that point so that the various language versions can be corrected .
there are delays in pension payments in all 15 of the member states .
mr president , at second reading i voted against both the reduction in the payment period from 30 to 21 days , and against the proposed interest level of 8 % .
hence the interest in adopting legislation aimed at harmonising the provisions relating to late payment , due dates and the legal rate of interest at european level as soon as possible .
a legal framework needs to be established to discourage late payment and give creditors the right to fair compensation in case of late payment .
the negotiations on this text were difficult .
a common position was finally adopted on 29 may last .
the european parliament emerged from those long negotiations victorious on several crucial points .
on interest , parliament and the council reached agreement on a rate of 7 % above central european bank rate , making a total of 10.5 % at the present time .
the european parliament wanted to reduce the period after which interest is due for late payment to 21 days from the date of receipt of the invoice rather than 30 days as envisaged by the council .
in the end the period of 30 days was maintained , but with the proviso that it may give rise to action for compensation if it constitutes a manifest abuse against the creditor .
meanwhile , the project continues to sink into the bureaucratic bog .
nearly 40 % of small and medium sized enterprises in the region have trading links with other eu member states .
in a few years ' time , following the enlargement of the european union , they will have access to a potential 500m customers - as big as the american and japanese markets put together .
i voted against this measure .
through its actions , the swedish government has helped obscure this fact in the course of the debate of recent years .
there is also a lack of consistency when , on the one hand , exports of swedish snuff to other eu countries are banned for health reasons and , on the other hand , appeal is made to the free market , and health aspects are set aside on the issue of imports of alcohol .
we think it very unfortunate that the swedish social democratic government has chosen not to pursue this issue more vigorously .
because we consider that both the swedish government and the european commission have acted incorrectly on this issue , we choose to signal our rejection of their approach by abstaining in the vote on the extension to sweden ' s derogation from the council directive .
meeting of the european council in feira ( rc b5-0522 / 2000 ) mr president , i would like to make it known , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , that we have abstained in the vote on the final resolution , despite the fact that we clearly support the resolution on the issues which are within the competence of the european council in feira , that is to say , the intergovernmental conference and the economic and social agenda .
with regard to the case of austria , we understand that , firstly , the european parliament ' s resolution , which was voted for at the time , is still in force , since no new events have occurred ; because it is not a community issue as such , but has been raised by the fourteen member states ; because , furthermore , my group supported president klestil ' s appearance and we took good note of his positive proposals , which are in fact related to issues which come within the competence of the commission - which is not present - such as the application of article 7 and the strengthening of our community of values .
mr president , there seems to be a trial of strength going on behind the scenes , during preparations for next week ' s feira european council , between those who want to extend the intergovernmental conference agenda and those who want to cut it .
it gives me some satisfaction to say that the second category looks like winning , which suits us fine .
as i have already had occasion to say in this house and in the forum responsible for drawing up the charter , it would certainly be useful to proclaim our common values - if it is done well - but we must not deprive our peoples of the freedom to define the rights of their own citizens themselves .
i am speaking on behalf of the italian radicals in this explanation of vote to justify our vote in favour , stressing that , in spite of everything , this resolution contains important points , including the need for dialogue , the need to get past the stage of pseudo-sanctions against austria - which has not been constructive - and make sure the minutes state that the vote also includes an important request we formulated last april and which we now reiterate : review of the seat of the institutions .
parliament has spoken very clearly .
i think it is high time account was taken in the treaty reforms of our determination to insist finally on a status that makes us masters of our own procedure , and masters of our own decisions as to the seat and meeting place of our institution .
mr dell ' alba , with regard to the first part of your intervention , we are indeed in the throes of internal reform of this house .
the debate has started and your opinion on the explanations of vote will also certainly be of value in due course .
mr president , i noted that amendment no 11 included the proposition that the community should take action in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity only if and insofar as the objectives of the proposed actions cannot be adequately achieved by the member states or - and i emphasis this - their constituent states with legislative powers that have been conferred on them by national constitutional law .
i regret that the topic of subsidiarity is substantially missing from the feira resolution .
the intention in the resolution is that the charter of fundamental rights should be incorporated into the treaty in the course of the forthcoming intergovernmental conference .
mr president , i am speaking briefly to justify my abstention .
but , given the circumstances , i could not vote in favour of paragraph 8 on austria .
although , unfortunately , not everything i had hoped for appears in the joint resolution - in particular , the need for a framework directive on public services - i find many of the proposals acceptable , and on all those points it is undoubtedly one of the best resolutions we have dealt with in the current political composition of the european parliament .
however , i find myself unable to support it because of the inclusion of paragraph 8 on austria .
i was proud of the eu when it imposed sanctions on austria when the new coalition formed because of the views and actions of the freedom party : a party whose policies have xenophobia running through them like blackpool through rock ; a leader who has praised hitler and the waffen ss , refused to condemn terrorist bombings against roma and congratulates nazi war veterans for keeping to their principles .
the new revision of the treaties being promoted at the intergovernmental conference will be the main item on the agenda at the feira summit .
as always , the communist party of greece will be standing firmly by their side . - ( da ) the danish social democrats in the european parliament have today voted neither for nor against the joint resolution concerning preparations for the european council in feira on 19 and 20 june 2000 .
however , the resolution also contains a long section about the current intergovernmental conference and , in this connection , we should like to repeat that our vote in favour of the overall resolution does not alter our basic view that extending the agenda and turning the treaty into a constitution , with the charter of fundamental rights incorporated into it with binding legal effect , will not enhance the possibility of achieving a satisfactory result in nice in december , something which is absolutely crucial if the enlargement is to be able to go ahead once the countries concerned are ready .
in my opinion , it is not a question of being against the principle of returning relations with austria to normal .
it is a question of the right opportunity and time for this political change to occur .
a resolution on the european council should specify that it is up to the latter to take this political change in hand by taking advantage of its meeting in feira .
the resolution does not emphasise that enlargement must be given absolute priority .
we have voted against this resolution to affirm our opposition not only to a common european army but to national armies as well .
the past half-century shows that the armies of the great imperialist powers of europe , in alliance or each on its own hunting ground , were not there to defend the people , but to carry on wars of pillage .
the author of the report is careful not to specify which enemy the future european army is intended to fight .
consequently , not only do we refuse to vote in favour of any resources whatsoever , human or financial , for this army , but we protest against its very existence .
mr president , i would like to make an explanation of vote on behalf of my delegation and say right away that we intended to vote for amendment no 26 and paragraph 27 .
nevertheless , the crisis in the balkans has demonstrated the shortcomings of the european union .
the treaty of amsterdam made the petersberg tasks the responsibility of the union .
that leaves article 5 .
the exercise is complicated , first because it is necessary to try to clarify relations with nato , and because the united states not to mention other countries in nato which are not members of the european union , like turkey , are not making our task any easier .
to summarise , the union for a europe of nations group believes in advancing towards common security actions , provided we do not get boxed into a rigid institutional system , but instead establish flexible procedures based on voluntary input and respect for national sovereignty .
there are three consequences of that : the national democracies must always have the last word , so the operations concerned must remain in an inter-state context ; decisions can in no case be taken by majority on issues of principle ; the system must be based on the possibility of ' differentiated actions ' permitting each people to exercise its freedom of choice without discontinuity .
nor can we support the more concrete proposals in the resolution , which call for increased defence budgets in the individual member states and coordination in purchasing military equipment and establishing an actual army for the union .
together , europe and the united states are seeking to impose this army as the military arm of the imf-world bank-wto triangle .
that will not happen without a radical break from neo-liberalism .
careful consideration ought to be given to the way in which the european parliament is to be involved in the area of defence and security policy .
the proposal paves the way for the increased use of majority decision-making , over and above what is laid down in the treaty of amsterdam in connection with a common defence and security policy .
in my opinion , it should only be possible to take military action following a decision in the united nations ' security council .
i cannot , therefore , support the resolution . " women 2000 " ( rc b5-0562 / 2000 ) mr president , i would first of all like to make it clear that i am speaking on behalf of the dutch members of the edd group .
we voted against the present resolution by way of expressing our dissatisfaction regarding the conduct of the european parliament delegation during the un general assembly .
it is the presidency of the european union that speaks on behalf of the union at that kind of international conference .
because people were putting words into the mouths of various parties , particularly poland ' s , i would like to specify that as regards gender equality , poland is adopting the acquis communautaire and is not calling into question the provisions of article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam on discrimination based on gender .
i wanted to make that clear to dispel any misunderstanding about what really happened in new york .
after very acrimonious negotiations , realism in appreciating the needs of women and respect for their dignity carried the day .
along the same lines , it is a real education to note that , although they are all officially specialised in the position of women , the ngos with the largest financial resources for political communication systematically militate in favour of notions of ' reproductive health ' to the detriment of more serious and urgent needs , thus offering unfailing support to the european and american delegations .
in any case , if this conference was ultimately a success for women all over the world , that was mainly thanks to the realism and resistance of the poorest countries , which were able to by-pass western ideological polemics about sexuality to promote practical measures against poverty - like ' micro-credit ' , against international trafficking in women and against lack of education and medical provision .
if the voice of the poorest countries was finally able to make itself heard last saturday around 4 a.m .
this was obviously not the case , neither in new york during the beijing + 5 conference , nor in our debate in this parliament yesterday .
regarding paragraph h of this resolution , " sexual rights " is an undefined term not included in article 13 of the amsterdam treaty nor in the beijing + 5 platform for action .
forgive me mr president , but i feel that these matters must be dealt with while the time is ripe , for otherwise , if we do not speak out , these demonstrations will end up being perceived as the norm .
i thank the members for their important communication .
it is truly unacceptable to denigrate and insult the democratic legitimacy of any country or its institutions , or of the european institutions .
as you are aware , the sound and efficient implementation of the structural funds is of fundamental importance for the credibility and effectiveness of the community institutions , in particular the european parliament , considering its monitoring functions .
our report , which was adopted unanimously , takes note of the fact that all the resources available for 1998 were fully taken up but it also records that there are still considerable divergences in implementation between objectives , between the member states and between regions , and that this full take-up was only made possible by mechanisms for offsetting over- and under-implementation , which , in fact , made the implementation of the budget non-transparent .
this is because we are convinced that we can only reduce the structural divergences between european regions and areas through coordinated action .
we have also noted that , although there was an inexplicable and dangerous fall in the number of on-the-spot checks carried out under the regulation in 1998 compared to the previous year , they have brought to light a whole range of shortcomings , from an insufficient number of monitoring schemes in certain programmes to the co-financing of non-admissible expenditure .
as a result , we consider that the commission ' s checks in 1998 were , unfortunately , still unsatisfactory , and that they must be sufficiently strengthened in order to guarantee proper implementation of the structural funds regulations .
in our report , we therefore call upon the european commission and the member states to adopt a number of actions as soon as possible to strengthen controls and to keep parliament better informed of measures adopted to increase transparency and improve the implementation of the structural funds .
finally , commissioner , i would like to stress that our report is consistent with the opinion you expressed on 5 june last in brussels , when you stressed that , in the interests of transparency , even the smallest european taxpayer has to know where and how community resources appropriated to the structural funds are spent .
i will leave to you the task of assessing whether a commission report such as the 1998 report allows , i will not say the smallest , but any of the european taxpayers to satisfy their desire .
mr president , lastly , i would like to explain my position regarding the seven amendments which will be put to the vote on friday .
i , myself , have tabled a technical amendment , the third amendment , which corrects a transcription error likely to cause confusion and make paragraph 28 inconsistent with the rest of the report .
however , i cannot accept amendment no 4 , amendment no 5 , amendment no 6 or amendment no 7 , for i consider that they misrepresent the rest of the report .
for my part , mr president , i am going to concentrate on just point : the need to coordinate structural fund interventions with other community policies , an issue the rapporteur is likewise very concerned about .
i shall be particularly grateful to commissioner barnier if he can tell us whether the commission has looked at this aspect of the problem in the context of the re-examination of competition policy , and if he could tell us where the commission has got to in its thinking on this subject .
however , i have chosen to speak in today 's debate because some of the issues discussed in the report are at the core of what must be addressed if the european institutions themselves are to lift the cloud of mismanagement and waste which hangs over them from previous times .
many positive changes have taken place since that time , not least since the new commission took over .
we have before us an opportunity to concentrate the minds of both the commission and the recipients - member states and others - of this valuable eu assistance , on the criticisms identified in the report in many areas concerning the allocation of funds and the lack of monitoring of their use .
none of us here would personally enter into a business or private financial agreement without being sure of how and when that obligation would come to an end .
failure to act will result in the particular problems highlighted in this report .
this is particularly so in my home region , the west midlands , where this delay is causing a great deal of uncertainty to local communities and the local taxpayers , who are having to underwrite the projects to the tune of many millions of pounds , pending the resolution of the problems i have outlined .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , if economic and social cohesion is rightly called the core of european policy , then it is safe to say that the structural funds act as its pacemaker .
however , i would like to strengthen one demand , and that is the demand that in its next report the commission should devote a special section to reporting on the measures which it has adopted in response to criticisms voiced by parliament in previous years .
the 11th annual report should , therefore , at the same time include a progress report .
for example , in the case of objective 1 areas , it is frequently only partly true to say that there is an independent structural policy to which the european component is added .
this is often because all the funding available in political terms has already had to be committed to guarantee adequate cofinancing , and rightly so .
in this way our structural policy itself will contribute to regionalisation .
fourthly , controls and assessments are the alpha and omega of any structural policy that has the noble objective of making itself superfluous as quickly as possible .
only in this way can we make horizontal comparisons between strategies and projects between member states in individual areas of activity .
it is therefore worth remembering that regional and structural policy in the european union as a whole is a response to the specific disadvantages confronting certain european regions and , in particular , the outermost regions such as madeira , the azores , the canary islands and the french overseas departments .
in fact , articles 158 and 159 of the treaty set the objectives for economic and social cohesion , giving regional policy the task of reducing the existing differences between the less developed regions and the others .
in view of the challenge of an enlarged union , which will in future have 28 or more member states , we can no longer afford not to use european money for european objectives such as employment , sustainability , environmental protection and equal opportunities in an efficient way .
i am emphasising this because i have the impression that the new programmes are once again being approved because of pressure from the member states , although they do not provide for optimum use of funds in accordance with europe ' s objectives .
we cannot afford , as we did in 1998 , to spend eur 30.4 billion only to find that unemployment is increasing again in the poorer regions .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it is once again time for us to consider a commission report on the implementation of structural funds appropriations , this time for 1998 , and to express the views of our group .
and this dissatisfaction is all the greater when you consider that the continuing regional differences , as measured in income per capita , are particularly reflected in unemployment figures .
even though there has been a reduction in unemployment in the eu in absolute terms in recent months , the total number of people without jobs is still far too high .
if we were to use this issue alone to gauge the success of structural fund policy , we would pass a devastatingly negative judgment on it .
we learn that the implementation rate for programmes in 1998 remained satisfactory , although only slightly under 90 % of total support was achieved for commitments , and 61 % for payments .
it authorises aid of at least 40 % of eligible costs in the case of investment , and for operational aid the member states are entitled to adopt a system authorising aid up to 100 % of eligible costs .
aid to these forms of energy may , moreover , vary according to the member states .
the commission recognises that renewable energies may need support in order to be able to develop but , at the same time , it is also important for these forms of energy to adapt gradually to competitive markets in order to ensure their long-term development .
as far as the latter is concerned , community programmes for nuclear research are established by the council which , pursuant to article 7 of the euratom treaty , acts unanimously on commission proposals .
in this context , the activities of the jrcs are intended , in conformance with its mission , to increase protection and nuclear safety , and in particular , provide scientific and technical assistance to the competent directorates-general .
this is particularly true in the case of the competition rules , which do not derogate from the framework established by the euratom treaty regarding community nuclear research .
i conclude from your answers both to my question and the previous one that here we have not just a white elephant in the nuclear industry in europe but a holy cow .
commissioner , you say that neither the treaty nor the directive on the internal electricity market stipulate any exemptions regarding subsidies to the nuclear sector .
articles 87 and 88 make no reference to nuclear energy .
i can add that , on the operational level , as indeed i think i said in response to your own question , mr turmes , on existing aid to the nuclear industry , the commission is not undertaking a comprehensive investigation .
if , however , cases of incompatible aid are brought to our attention , then these cases will be dealt with in accordance with the terms of the two treaties .
i would further like to add that in the logical overall construction of the ec treaty , the articles governing state aid , i.e .
since the time allotted to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions nos 46 to 83 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , there are few of us here at this time in the evening , but it is also true that this is the third time we have debated this report in the european parliament .
on the first occasion , in december 1998 , this report on the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from new passenger cars was approved at first reading with 48 amendments .
the report therefore returned for a second reading .
it also seemed very important that we maintained something that was traditional in the positions of the committee on the environment : a certain degree of precaution in relation to voluntary agreements .
the committee on the environment had little faith in these voluntary agreements and another amendment asked for the establishment of a clear legal framework which would come into play in the event that the voluntary agreements failed .
mr president , in total , 10 amendments were approved by a substantial majority in this house and then not accepted by the council , and we therefore had to embark on this conciliation procedure , which i must point out has been neither difficult nor controversial .
it includes a study of the future inclusion of lightweight industrial vehicles , the possibility of shortly presenting a proposed legal framework and reviewing the data with a view to making them more rigorous and more or less equivalent in each of the countries .
in short , parliament ' s main concerns have been taken up , if not in an immediate and radical manner , at least to the extent that a commitment has been given to adopt decisions on this issue in the future .
mrs gonzalez alvarez , conciliation processes vary in difficulty , i can assure you .
reducing greenhouse gases by 8 % in comparison with 1990 is therefore the main objective between now and the year 2012 .
this joint monitoring scheme is the first of its kind and i think that its success or failure will decide whether or not we opt to introduce other similar schemes .
but despite all these efforts , directives and joint measuring schemes , we should not delude ourselves : we are unlikely to achieve the target objective of reducing greenhouse gases to 1990 levels .
that may well be pessimistic but if we consider that the number of cars on the road is continuing to rise in the 14 member states , oh excuse me , i meant 15 ; we austrians often have to stop and ask ourselves if there are 14 or 15 member states , but there are in fact still 15 , and if we consider enlargement to the east and if we consider that people in china and india also want to live as we do , then we should make no mistake : it will be difficult to achieve a reduction in greenhouse gases or co2 and we should therefore make every effort to stabilise them at the very least .
nonetheless , once in a while these words of wisdom fit the bill because our co2 strategy for cars is of course a new departure in that we are trusting in the willingness of car manufacturers in europe , korea and japan to take voluntary technical measures to reduce co2 emissions from their cars to 140g by 2008 , which will represent a reduction of around 25 % .
i think that all of us , especially of course the member states , need to give clear additional incentives , so that we really can achieve our objective of 120 g in 2005 .
since the rio de janeiro conference and then kyoto , the european union has always led the political side of the debate on climate change .
nevertheless , although europe continues to lead the debate in terms of rhetoric , it is beginning to lose the legitimacy to do so in a credible way .
in terms of political action , the transport sector must be our priority for the following two fundamental reasons .
secondly , because transport is the sector that is contributing most to europe ' s falling short of the levels set in kyoto .
according to a study recently published by the european environment agency , transport is responsible for almost 30 % of the european union ' s total emissions , and it predicts that the level of carbon dioxide emissions generated by this sector will increase by 39 % of the 1990 level by 2010 .
given this extremely disturbing picture , which shows that road transport is responsible for 85 % of total carbon dioxide emissions in the transport sector , and given the overwhelming need for action , the agreement reached in the conciliation committee on this system for monitoring co2 emissions from light passenger vehicles is to be welcomed .
this system is a crucial aspect in the implementation of the kyoto protocol and will ensure rigorous control of the voluntary commitment made by the car industry to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in new passenger vehicles by 25 % .
in any event , i congratulate mrs gonzalez alvarez once again on the results she has achieved .
mr president , commissioner , i intend to be as brief as our successful rapporteur in the conciliation procedure .
however , let me just offer her my hearty congratulations on her excellent report and brilliant success , as some of the previous speakers have done .
contrary to some previous speakers , i think it is most important that the report should seek not just to stabilise concentrations of greenhouse gases but to reduce them , especially given the fact that we need to achieve a demonstrable success by 2005 under the terms of the kyoto protocol .
i think it is fundamental , given the reservation which this parliament has always expressed in connection with voluntary obligations in environmental agreements , that we have managed to include the passage stating that data will be used from 2003 onwards to monitor the voluntary obligations of the car industry .
the adoption of this decision will allow the effectiveness of the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars to be monitored and , more specifically , it will provide credible data to monitor the implementation of the voluntary agreements with car manufacturers .
this strategy is one of the most concrete activities of the community on co2 emissions and reductions from the transport sector .
the debate is closed .
mr president , i hope that the two members due to speak before me were not travelling by train and have been delayed .
if you take lorries and buses from eastern europe on the a1 motorway , which is the most important east-west route , traffic increased sixfold between 1995 and the year 2000 .
the main requirements are , of course , to harmonise the gauge throughout europe , especially where more than two countries cooperate .
at the moment , we still have five different gauges .
mr president , first of all i should like to thank all the members who supported the rapporteur in his work in presenting these two reports which are , i believe , absolutely crucial to the future of the railways .
what is the subject matter ?
next , and this is the substance of the second report , we must discuss and vote on a proposed directive on the interoperability of the trans-european conventional rail system .
ladies and gentlemen , we must appreciate the full importance of this subject .
at a time when we have right here , in most of the countries of the union , a rail network and technology unparalleled in the world , with a recent study evaluating the external costs of road transport in terms of public health , infrastructure and pollution at some eur 480 billion , even though the objective of sustainable mobility and respect for quality of life are now shared by all europeans , it can be noted that rail has only an 8.6 % market share for freight , and 5.8 % for passenger transport .
there is more than one explanation for this paradox : rail ' s reduced level of competitiveness due to a social differential in relation to the road sector , but also the distortions of competition engendered by the considerable external costs of road transport , the priority which most major railway companies in recent years have given exclusively to prestigious high-speed passenger transport , but also excessive national characteristics in terms of railway traditions , techniques and protocols , thereby compromising the flow of continental rail traffic .
the issue at stake in railway interoperability is , of course , doing away with the technical frontiers that have been inherited from the national railway structures set in place gradually since the nineteenth century .
of course , the new high-speed train infrastructures offer a prime area for the introduction of interoperability , since they are new or recent networks devoted to very similar technology .
directive 96 / 48 was adopted for this purpose .
the report on its application , four years on , referred to parliament to express an opinion , delivers contrasting results , but results that are in the end more positive than they may seem .
in the first place , significant delay is observed in the transposition of laws and regulations since , to date , only two countries have transposed it and the first technical specifications for interoperability are on the point of being completed and published .
more than that , however , in anticipation of tangible results in future , the directive on the interoperability of high-speed routes has primarily made it possible to define and iron out working methods .
for the first time , the railway industry , rail companies and infrastructure managers have started up a joint project to define the technical specifications for interoperability .
finally , the committee established by article 21 , bringing together representatives of the member states and the commission , enables political and technical monitoring of interoperability projects and intervention at the discretion of states to direct such projects .
furthermore , we have to look to the future and , therefore , both the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism and the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy have proposed involving candidate country representatives in the projects at this early stage , so that they can anticipate this future acquis communautaire .
the aim of the directive - as with high-speed trains - is to harmonise technical provisions in order to ensure that conventional rail traffic within the union runs as smoothly as possible and to give candidate countries really exact specifications so that through traffic is also guaranteed after enlargement .
better services , greater comfort , less travelling time , increased safety and possibly also lower prices .
including these aspects will only result in the directive being difficult or impossible to manage .
allow me in closing to highlight the excellent cooperation once again ; i am optimistic that together we shall achieve the objective of creating as smooth a railway system as possible .
for a long time , the european parliament has been advocating a transport policy that promotes rail transport , as it is the form of transport that causes the least pollution , and in many situations it is the most comfortable for passengers and adapts most easily to long distance goods transport .
what we have seen , however , is exactly the opposite : the volume of rail transport of passengers and goods has been steadily decreasing , as has the number of people working in companies in those areas which nevertheless , still stands at around one million .
secondly , rail transport is considered to be a great deal more expensive than road transport .
as to this second aspect , some measures have already been adopted , with the construction and management of transport infrastructures themselves being separated in most countries of the european union .
the amendments that have now been tabled to establish rules for cross-border interoperability in the european union clearly show the direction we should take in this matter .
the interest demonstrated by the portuguese presidency in taking these dossiers forward as quickly as possible gives us hope that , with the contribution of the european parliament , this situation will finally change , to the benefit of rail transport .
in conclusion , i must emphasise that we socialists feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the european union ' s fundamental aims , and that , in the rail transport sector , support must be provided for europe ' s northern and southern peripheral regions and for specific and historical cases where costs of adaptation are very high but are absolutely essential , because their different track gauges have to be changed .
this is an important topic , but also an extremely complicated one .
there is one further matter which would require fine tuning ; this was outlined in amendment no 35 by my group .
it applies to finland in particular , but some of the applicant countries will be faced with the same problem in connection with enlargement of the union .
there is no certainty either that russian wagons in all instances would be regarded as special cases .
implementation of this proposal would give assurance that rail traffic in finland could continue without becoming drastically reduced .
mr president , environment commissioner , i am pleased that you are here because we can now address this matter straight away .
this gives me the opportunity to make a few comments on the environmental dimension to this proposal .
the passengers are unaware that it is two companies who are responsible for this one joint and frequent link .
my group would like to see trade-union rights , participation , working conditions and work pressure given a more prominent role .
luckily , the rapporteur is not yielding under the pressure to consider personnel as a cost factor alone .
mr president , mr savary ' s reports raise a matter of crucial importance to european railways .
given the alarming position rail finds itself in in most member states , intervention is vital .
i also hope that the council will accept our proposed amendments .
we are opening the markets but we need interoperability in order to do so .
in a few weeks ' time , we shall propose to parliament at second reading and by a large majority - there are still a few differences of opinion here and there - what framework market conditions and operating regulations are needed in order to create a european railway system .
all this , as the previous speaker has already said , will not produce a european railway system unless there is also a degree of interoperability on the technical and social side .
mr savary has also highlighted a very important point ; namely that we must ensure during the enlargement of the european union that the european railway system does not stop at the current borders of the european union but covers the whole of europe so that it can help to improve the environment and increase traffic safety throughout europe .
it is true that in a good number of european policies we put forward the need to transfer passenger transport , but most especially freight transport , from road to rail in order , on the one hand , to comply with our international commitments but , on the other hand , to reduce greenhouse gas emissions , to reduce environmental pollution in general , to relieve congestion on the roads and to reduce the social costs of road transport , which are borne indirectly by the community as a whole .
in transport policies within the european union , rail was overlooked .
only rarely was there a question of allocating aid to conventional rail systems in order to modernise them and so that they might compete , particularly with heavy goods vehicles on the roads .
moreover , we would point out that it is essential that the european parliament should incorporate staff training and health and safety conditions into this directive .
indeed , many of us still remember the conditions in which the transportation of radioactive waste between germany and france was carried out for many years .
in general , then , we consider this report to be a well-balanced one , and we also wish to congratulate the rapporteur , but we have nonetheless tabled a number of amendments in order to improve it still more .
most national railway systems in the member states have comprehensive rules governing the aforementioned social aspects and rather than lose them in the process of liberalisation at european level , we must harmonise them at the highest possible level .
secondly , in addition to agreeing to the minimum level of technical harmonisation proposed in the report , the preparation of ex ante cost-benefit analyses and the order of priorities for drawing up tsis , my group sets particular store by including the social partners , associations and organisations , passengers and users in the work of drafting and checking technical specifications for interoperability .
thirdly , we also support the proposal to allow representatives from the candidate countries of central and eastern europe to attend committee meetings from the outset .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the savary report follows the rationale of sustainable development .
as for conventional rail networks , it is time that interoperability was made compulsory , reinforced by considerable amounts of european aid which would , moreover , enable member states to safeguard their conventional local networks .
so border stops , changes in equipment and staff and , more importantly , transhipment operations should be limited to avoid putting a strain on reliability in terms of the time and service provided .
in my view , the most important points to be borne in mind are two figures , which are really quite shocking .
the first is that in 1970 , the railways had a 20 % share of the freight market , whereas today they have just 8.5 % .
and all this in the year 2000 !
we should all realise that a common market without a unified transport network is simply will-o ' -the wisp .
i would like to add two separate issues concerning my country , greece , since my capacity as chairman of the transport committee does not , i imagine , deny me the right to raise problems of this kind .
the first problem is that greece has no main cross-border rail links , especially with other member states .
mr president , i too regret the absence of the commissioner here this evening .
i begin by welcoming the commission 's proposal to integrate europe 's convention on a high-speed rail network .
as we have heard already this evening , in 1970 the railways had a 21 % share of the freight market , today just 8.5 % .
the sad fact is that the railways have lost ground even where there are well placed , for example , in long distance freight .
a key reason for this decline is that , in contrast to aviation and road haulage , a single market does not exist in this sector .
for 150 years , the railways have been organised along national lines .
more recently the railways have adopted 16 different and incompatible electronic signalling systems .
differences have also contributed to the fragmentation of the market for railway equipment .
this proposal being considered here tonight , together with other proposals from the commission , aims to create an internal market in rail services .
it would also boost the railway equipment industry in countries such as my own .
the revitalisation of the railways is crucial to the future of europe 's transport system , our environment and our economy .
it is high time that the member states forsook their national stances in favour of a european stance because it is national stances that have prevented the rail system from being vital and from retaining its passengers and freight .
the bridge will make it considerably easier to convey people and goods from sweden and finland to the rest of europe .
the only railway linking the two countries is that between haparanda and tornea .
coordination of the railway systems is especially important for those countries and regions which are not situated in the centre of europe .
the savary report is therefore very important and one step along the road .
mr president , commissioner , honourable members , literature has a few well-known words for what we are discussing in the two savary reports this evening : " you are late , but at least you are here " , was how friedrich schiller put it , words which also apply to our work here in the european parliament .
it has taken more than 100 years for us to pluck up the courage here and give the railways another chance .
but where we want to network europe in the long term , especially with the future member states of the union , things do not look any better .
in this context , a word to my austrian minister of transport .
the southern railway in austria is an old stretch of line and is of regional importance .
mr president , i believe that gilles savary has done magnificent work with these two reports .
the routes of the railway structures on our continent were set a long time before schuman made his famous speech on the quai d 'orsay .
furthermore - as others have said - almost every country has constructed its network in a radial manner , around its capital , which is a serious obstacle to all those who want to create a different kind of route , such as from spain to germany or italy to the uk without passing , for example , through paris .
paris and many other capitals and almost all intra-european borders act as barriers for through rail routes .
we have managed to harmonise the european economy , but the current rail network is not a useful instrument for the single market .
the inclusion of a social clause seems to me to be an excellent idea .
these workers have already paid the price for our forgetfulness .
their number has decreased by 500 000 in the last 15 years .
it is possible to revitalise the railway , as certain projects that have already been undertaken demonstrate .
a community which is undergoing a rapid process of integration and which is facing imminent enlargement needs to improve the efficiency and quality of the railway services it offers to customers .
this is already the case in the technical field , in the form of the european association for railway interoperability .
take , for example , the night train from amsterdam to milan which will be introduced from 28 may .
from a position , thirty years ago , when it had a more than twenty per cent share of the goods transport market in the eu , the railways are now down to having a share of less than ten per cent .
otherwise , there is an obvious risk that europe ' s railway network , at least where goods transport is concerned , will no longer exist within a few decades .
the next step is to help extend the eu ' s internal market to embrace the countries of eastern and central europe , too .
it is extremely important that we recognise the importance of a railway system .
one thing that has concerned me recently in my region is that , in europe , we talk about how important to regions it is that we should have the most environmentally friendly type of transport .
we have also recently had northern ireland railways tell us that they are going to close the link between coleraine and londonderry which is absolutely unbelievable and totally unacceptable .
there should be no more closures and we should make more finance available to improve the present railway system to have more goods moved by rail and not by road , which is totally unacceptable from an environmental point of view .
the directive must be seen , in the first place , as a technical measure , but the proposal is , of course , also of political significance in so far as it helps implement a common and open market for railway services and railway materials .
this has also emerged clearly in the course of the debate .
these differences affect not only interoperability but also the internal market for railway equipment .
the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism has adopted an amendment to the report and , in that way , backed our own proposal .
as you know , the council too has examined the proposal and , thanks to contacts between parliament ' s rapporteur , the presidency of the council and the commission ' s officials , it is entirely possible that the proposal may be adopted as early as at first reading .
those cases which are mentioned may be dealt with as special categories , as special cases or , at worst , as exceptions .
amendment 28 , article 22 ( 3 ) .
amendment 29 , article 24 ( 1 ) .
amendment 32 , annex i , together with amendment 35 on exempting passenger carriages from third countries .
amendment 39 , article 18 ( 3 ) and amendment 40 , annex vii .
the proposal therefore mentions a number of special cases ( cf .
allow me to leave the other amendments , because they all have our support .
i would conclude my intervention concerning the interoperability of the conventional rail systems by thanking parliament for its efforts .
parliament ' s proposal for carrying out an assessment of how much progress really has been made on interoperability is therefore very interesting .
at the request of a member state or of the commission , this would provide a picture of the trans-european rail system for conventional trains .
it is generally known that the railway sector is of crucial importance in terms of europe ' s future transport needs and a more sustainable european transport system .
secondly , please be so kind as to point out to your employees that the report is not from the committee on regional policy , but from the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , because we are devising a transport policy for the whole community , not just for the regions .
mr president , the report on safety at sellafield , published by the uk nuclear installations inspectorate , is a damning indictment of safety at the plant and falsification of safety checks there .
in mid-february chief inspector laurence williams said that he himself would pull the plug on the thorp reprocessing plant if his safety recommendations were not acted on .
it is time that the citizens of europe received detailed answers to the questions of the effect on safety and the environment of the falsification of data in the mox facility at the bnfl sellafield site - falsification that has been ongoing for some years - because of the seriousness of the questions it raises for the safety of mox fuel in use and for the nuclear installation 's safety generally .
it also raises questions for the transport of nuclear material such as mox fuel and , indeed , for nuclear safeguards because of the production of plutonium stockpiles .
i am also directly concerned with the effects of reprocessing on neighbouring states , such as my own , where radioactive contamination from sellafield has been found on the east coast beaches , in particular carlingford lough , where i grew up .
i believe the scandal of abuse of safety at sellafield is a european question .
in particular , the high-level waste tanks pose a serious , on-going risk to the east coast of ireland because of the risk of a release of large amounts of radiation should the cooling tanks overheat .
the nuclear inspectorate 's report stressed that the amount of high-level liquid waste continues to increase faster than bnfl can deal with it .
for more than 40 years high-level liquid waste has been stored in tanks at sellafield under constant cooling .
even then , they will still be highly radioactive for more than 50 years .
the problem for bnfl is that the amount of high-level liquid waste produced by reprocessing continues to increase faster than it can deal with it .
in committee i also queried whether a culture of corruption had spread to the independent quality assurance verification by lloyd 's quality assurance who verify that bnf procedures comply with health and safety requirements .
last september it published a report stating that bnfl has high-quality management in terms of health , safety and the environment .
i am therefore grateful that the european parliament decided to debate this important issue in plenary tonight and to adopt a resolution later this week .
let me now turn to the first specific issue which is the implications of the mox data issue for the safety of nuclear installations .
let me first remind the honourable members that under the international convention on nuclear safety the responsibility for nuclear safety rests with the state having jurisdiction over a nuclear installation .
it is also clear that our member states do not wish to give up this responsibility .
that is a quote from their report .
however , the inspectors ' report on the control and supervision of operations at the bnfl sellafield site also stated its opinion on the deterioration in safety performance at sellafield .
we are now awaiting the formal reaction of the inspector to this programme .
therefore , also for the transport of radioactive material the prime responsibility lies with the member states .
however , the commission welcomes any decision which would increase even further the safe transport of nuclear material .
the commission has as its objective to promote the harmonisation of the regulations in the field of transport of radioactive material , which would increase safety in the field .
finally , regarding the concept of proposing a euratom directive for harmonising minimum standards for nuclear safety in the european union and its value in discussions of nuclear safety with the accession states : individual eu member states ' safety requirements are more specific and demanding than those of the international atomic agency .
my concern is that any attempt to achieve a consensus on a set of common euratom safety standards might only result in a very generalised set of rules and principles .
i do not see any obstacles to future harmonisation of rules in the field of safe management of radioactive waste and decommissioning of nuclear installations .
in the context of enlargement , a directive setting out harmonised minimum safety standards might have facilitated our early discussions on the very sensitive issue of nuclear safety .
it is also difficult to prejudge if common minimum standards would give us the level of safety that we wish the accession states to aim for .
another major step forward was taken only last week with the setting up of a european nuclear installation safety group .
however , it is not clear that a directive requiring the harmonisation of safety standards at a european level at this moment in history is the best way forward .
it is very important that we retain a sense of perspective , a sense of proportion about this issue and i welcome the balanced response from commissioner wallstrom .
it is very important that we stick to facts and avoid some of the wilder claims that have been put in the green motion for a resolution on this issue .
i would like to quote also from the nii report that the fuel manufactured in mdf , the mox demonstration facility , will be safe in use in spite of incomplete quality assurance records caused by the falsification of some acceptable quality-level data by process workers in the facility .
i would also like to draw colleagues ' attention to the positive response by bnfl to the two reports made by the nii , one on the records incident and the other on the control and safety management regime at sellafield .
bnfl has responded positively to the 28 recommendations in one report and 15 recommendations in the other , the falsification report .
the offence of falsification of records must not negate or obscure the long-term case for reprocessing or mox fuel assemblies .
i welcome their launching of a project aimed at harmonising its members ' safety rules and practices .
mr president , the vast majority of united kingdom citizens or indeed eu citizens were deeply shocked and dismayed at the recent events at bnfl .
failure to comply in one aspect of an accredited quality system has led to a major loss in confidence in bnfl overall . " that is from a management which is now aware of its shortcomings , a management that foolishly engaged in staff reductions , now reversed thank goodness .
the highest standards are required of any nuclear installation .
i do not want to talk at this stage about the viability or wisdom of reprocessing nor about the economics of mox .
the main reason this is being raised in the european parliament is to point out the lack of european harmonised standards in the nuclear industry .
there are harmonised standards in almost every other aspect of european industry .
the commissioner says she does not feel it advisable to produce a communication .
i think one is needed in the near future indicating how we could achieve more harmonisation - of course not at the lowest standards in existence but at the most stringent .
the processing of spent fuel from 34 plants in 9 different countries was thrown into doubt and , indeed , japan , germany and switzerland stopped sending material - and quite rightly so - to sellafield .
a number of improvements have been made : the new chairman of bnfl has undertaken a fundamental review ; a number of people have been dismissed .
the fact is that the commissioner telling us that the rules of individual member states are more specific is simply not good enough .
we need high minimum standards and , in particular , we need those standards in the light of the accession of candidate countries , many of which are more reliant on nuclear technology than existing members of the union and have much older generating capacity .
the fact is that we need legislation to implement what is called for in the motion put forward by the three main political groups tonight : high minimum standards for the safe and reliable design , construction and operation of nuclear and nuclear-related installations , as well as for nuclear-safety management systems .
my group cannot support the green motion here tonight .
it raises the perfectly legitimate question of whether nuclear reprocessing should continue at sellafield .
but one cannot conduct this debate in the terms employed by the tabloid newspapers .
but it is an area where action at european-union level really can make a difference .
no one in this house could have been anything but appalled at the recent events linked to sellafield , with the falsification of mox fuel data and the nuclear installation inspectorate 's report on the low level of safety procedures at the plant .
bnfl was determined to press ahead with the sellafield mox plant to keep reprocessing going .
the nuclear industry has caused enormous damage already and we have to be certain that more and more communities and people 's lives are not blighted by its legacy in future .
mr president , an essential requirement in parliamentary work is rigour .
for the sake of this rigour , i would like to remind you of four facts relating to the case of the falsification of manual measurements of the diameter of mox fuel pellets at the british nuclear fuels installation at sellafield .
nevertheless , a mishap like this reminds us , despite its trivial nature , of the need to give utmost priority to the constant control and improvement of the procedures in an installation such as the sellafield reprocessing plant .
however , we should note that the response of bnfl to the nuclear inspectorate report has already resulted in very significant management changes .
we should also note that the chief inspector and the commission made very clear to the industry committee that there were no safety implications at any of the sellafield installations .
we seek to apply standards to the applicant countries in eastern europe and , i would suggest , beyond the applicant countries in eastern europe .
mr president , i have been a member of this parliament now for sixteen years .
i believe i am accurate in saying that literally in every one of those sixteen years the concerns of the irish government and the irish people about the nuclear processing plant in sellafield have been raised in this parliament .
we are aware that the germans and the japanese are sending their nuclear waste for processing to sellafield because it is politically too uncomfortable for them to do it in their own countries because of concerns about this .
i also ask her another question : are any of the non-nuclear countries on the nuclear safety committee you mentioned ?
mr president , i asked to speak in this debate not just because i am a member from the north-west region of england where the sellafield plant is situated , not just because there could be 10 000 livelihoods at risk if sellafield was closed , and not because i have any vested interest in the nuclear industry .
i asked to speak because i want to try and help to get some truth into this debate .
bnfl were the ones who told the nuclear installations inspectorate and their customers what had happened .
i quote from the independent where seven prominent danish scientists , who actually study as a professional interest the releases of radioactivity from sellafield , said on 12 may : " there is no scientific basis for the claim that the present release of radioactivity from sellafield causes an unacceptable contamination in the north atlantic and arctic regions . "
they would certainly not put their families at risk it that was the case .
mr president , as a cumbrian - born , bred and resident - and one of the representatives of north-west england , there is nobody in this parliament who has been more affected by the reverberations arising from recent events at sellafield than me .
speaking as a cumbrian i know a lot of people in my home county - which i have the privilege to represent - feel let down by british nuclear fuels .
in particular i know this is a very strongly held view in parts of ireland .
this true in ireland , denmark , the united kingdom or any other member state .
finally , just as the recent crisis at sellafield has been self-inflicted , so the solution to it lies in british nuclear fuels ' hands , as they themselves understand .
no uniform standards for safety and discharges , no community consultation procedure concerning power stations sited near frontiers , no clear community provisions for the storage and transport of nuclear fuels or nuclear waste , no adequate community system of information and monitoring in cases of nuclear malfunction .
nuclear safety in the enlargement process is a major cause for concern .
if nuclear safety and nuclear energy are so safe , why are not the majority of these installations located near the population centres of the south-east of england ?
but seen from an irish perspective , this stands logic on its head , we have counties antrim , down , louth , dublin , wicklow and wexford where the vast majority of the population of the island of ireland , about 2 million people , live on or adjacent to the irish sea where the majority of british nuclear institutions are sited .
furthermore in recent years , we have all seen how consumer concern about the integrity of the food chain can devastate a once seemingly secure market .
the reality of sellafield goes beyond the contribution to the kyoto targets on the dependence of the uk economy on nuclear energy .
it also includes a litany of unreported incidents , falsified quality control checks on mox fuel rods resulting in the loss of confidence by the japanese in safety standards at the plant and the cancellation by the germans and the swiss of mixed oxide nuclear fuel pellets .
the reality of sellafield includes incidents last september and early this year of deliberate sabotage , allegedly by members of the staff .
a director has publicly stated the future of the plant is in doubt .
it is in the interest of all of us to ensure that our citizens have confidence in our safety and security systems .
i am ready to come any time to any committee in parliament to discuss those issues .
but we must not give the impression that this would mean higher levels of safety in the european union , because with the unanimity rule on the decisions on these issues , the end-result could be that we have minimum standard rules which would not live up to the expectations of our citizens .
that is also why the commission 's responsibility in this area is restricted to control radioactivity - but no more than that .
it is not the first time that sellafield has been discussed and we need to look into the safety issues very closely because , you remember , there was an accident in japan .
so even in highly advanced societies there are serious risks with nuclear and processing techniques .
i should be pleased to come to parliament at any time to continue this discussion .
the debate is closed .
mr president , i would like to make a comment in relation to yesterday ' s minutes .
mr president , this matter is one of the utmost importance .
the lawyers - and i feel i should take the opportunity to mention this as well - michael hausfeld and martin mendelson , who represent some of the governments of eastern european countries , commented at the time that , in some respects , austria is in fact providing more generous compensation payments than germany , because in the first place , we are including the agricultural workers , and secondly , we are also paying compensation for children under the age of 12 and women who gave birth whilst in forced labour camps .
thank you for your statement , mrs stenzel . ( the minutes were approved ) broad outlines of economic policies the next item is the report ( a5-0134 / 2000 ) by mr katiforis , on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , on the commission recommendation for the 2000 broad guidelines of the economic policies of the member states and the community ( drawn up pursuant to article 99 ( 2 ) of the treaty establishing the european community ) . . ( el ) mr president , broadly speaking , the report tabled before plenary by the committee on economic and monetary affairs contains a particularly positive appraisal of the commission ' s recommendation for the broad guidelines of the economic policies of the member states .
the committee on economic and monetary affairs maintains that the requisite economic growth must be based on price stability and budgetary discipline , reasonable wage increases taking account of price stability , productivity increases and a reduction in unit labour costs , even in the case of reductions in working hours .
it also believes in greater liberalisation of competition , strengthening national competition authorities , providing special support for associations of small- and medium-sized enterprises and further developing the single market - especially in the public utilities and financial services sectors .
the committee also reiterates parliament ' s previous call for an interinstitutional agreement between the council , the commission and the european parliament on the subject of the adoption of the resolution , although it thanks the portuguese presidency for its willingness to cooperate on this matter .
this is ad hoc cooperation , however , not cooperation reflected in an interinstitutional agreement , and we consider this a shortcoming in our procedure .
ladies and gentlemen , we achieved a significant degree of consensus in our work in the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
this comment applies in particular to the target investment rate , which requires us to increase the potential rate of growth of the economy to 3 % on a permanent basis .
the european economy has a huge margin for growth ; it is true that the european economy can become more productive , but we need to be bolder in the way we go about it .
mr president , when drawing up this draft opinion for the committee on economic and monetary affairs , the committee on social affairs fully appreciated the importance of this resolution , parliament ' s first resolution on economic policy guidelines since the lisbon summit .
the subsidiarity principle needs to be steered in this direction with regard to the role both of the governments and of the decentralised institutions , without diminishing the decisive part played by greater synergy , greater coordination between the broad guidelines , and by placing greater focus on the european community dimension with a view to developing an economic policy which can enhance the potential for development in europe and allow us to effectively achieve the goals which we set ourselves with regard to full employment .
we have taken the chapters of the broad guidelines into account , in particular the aspects related to the introduction of flexibility and efficiency elements in the products market , the financial services market and the labour market , but we have also acknowledged the importance of the negotiations of the social partners and of social objectives .
a further consideration : we consider - and for the remainder we refer you to the text of the opinion - that parliament ' s role in this matter must be consolidated by formal institution of the procedure laying down a specific interinstitutional agreement on the participation of parliament in formal consultations on the economic policy guidelines and on the monitoring of their effects .
the second important cornerstone of the social market economy is the stability of the currency .
mr president , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and i am pleased that the committee on economic and monetary affairs , which is to negotiate , for the first time , with the troika of eu finance ministers on the broad outlines of economic policy , will enter into these negotiations with a report that will attract a broad consensus .
after all , the cost of unemployment in the european union is estimated to be 12 % of european gdp .
consequently , we are aware that we need a form of economic government in europe .
therefore , the fact that , in some ways , the us economy is doing better than the european economy , at least in terms of growth forecasts , should not mask the fact that the european economy is doing well at the moment .
in particular , we approve of the ambition to achieve full employment as well as its ambition in terms of sound social and , above all , salary agreements .
so if there must be structural reform in wages , then it must be in the direction of greater , and not less , stability in employment .
although i recognise the contribution made by parliament and our rapporteur in gaining acceptance once again for the concept of full employment , i think that the rapporteur himself , whom i congratulate on his efforts , would agree that we need to redefine what we mean by employment and by full employment .
as far as its general approach is concerned , the commission ' s recommendation forms part of a more general neo-liberal economic and social policy which , with the support of the majority of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , finds expression in the report under discussion .
as far as we are concerned , the basic policy objectives should be to support public investment , stable , permanent and full employment , protect and improve the social security system and the system of social protection in general and strengthen active demand by improving the purchasing power of the workers .
mr president , reading the broad guidelines for the economic policy presented by the commission for the year 2000 leaves one with a strange impression that something is missing because nowhere is there any mention of the single currency , except in a brief and fleeting reference , stating the importance of the maastricht criterion regarding the rationalisation of public finances or the need to gear monetary policy towards price stability .
there is not a word , however , on the current depreciation of the euro and its influence on the economy and economic policies .
the same is unfortunately true of the european parliament ' s report since , out of the 35 points raised in the resolution , not one relates to the single currency , and it is only briefly referred to in the recitals .
this reduction in the value of the euro is not something that mr duisenberg can do anything about , as this european central bank , whatever they say , is the brainchild of the two main states in the euro zone , and the french and german governments have given the order to do nothing .
in order to maintain the value of the euro in relation to the dollar , we should have to raise euro interest rates to a level which is slightly higher than that of the dollar , perhaps to a level in the order of 50 base points .
obviously , we cannot agree to all assets located in france being devalued if the downward slide of the euro continues beyond the short term .
it is now quite certain , however , that this state of affairs will always be best for all countries at all times .
social security arrangements must be critically examined and social expenditure reduced , but savings can also be made on social expenditure by making higher employment the top economic objective .
however , we must also reform our administrative systems .
when discussing economic policies in the context of this report , we should not forget about competition policy .
recently , the neutrality of the communities ' competition policy has been called into question - justifiably so - inter alia in the case of volvo-scania .
it is clearly a real blow to the industry and trade of small and remote countries while they are making efforts to increase their competitiveness within the union area .
i regret that the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy did not draw up an opinion on mr katiforis ' s report - it should have done .
we need scientists in order to have research and development .
commissioner busquin ' s communication on the european research area is very good .
mr president , as everyone is pointing out , the euro has just lost almost 30 % of its value in sixteen months , but the european commission , like the central bank , does not seem to be in much of a hurry to learn the lessons of this experience , as that would be liable to challenge the current monetary policy which benefits only stock exchange transactions and speculation .
the ambition to achieve full employment and a modern economy , as declared in lisbon , are indeed laudable objectives , but they are now effectively coming up against the liberal yoke .
in its document on the broad economic guidelines , the commission pursues this liberal approach , and these guidelines now represent the reference text for the coordination of economic policy in the member states .
the committee on economic and monetary affairs ' report is in line with this approach and with the continuation of the lisbon decisions .
this is why i am unable to approve of the guidelines contained in this report , especially when made exacerbated by the many amendments introduced by the right wing .
this new policy should be particularly based on support to investment that creates jobs by means of a selective policy of credit , the improvement in living and working conditions and a reduction of working hours without flexibility or increased precariousness , taxation on income and financial measures to curb speculation and to release new resources .
in fact , as recent events concerning the euro illustrate , the european union and the institutions are currently at a crossroads : we have the choice between the road to prosperity and growth , undertaking radical structural liberalisation reforms that europe must implement boldly , and the road of preservation and the perpetuation of a corporate , statist vision of the economy which is condemning many european countries to levels of unemployment which are two or three times higher than those in america and to a marginal role in the most innovative and dynamic sectors of the economy .
we italian radicals are also in favour of political control , but federalist , liberal control , with a limited number of clear laws and no state intervention in the economy , even by the european state .
on a positive note , attention is paid to the effects of an ageing population on the sustainability of government funds .
only since 1999 have both government expenditure and revenue fallen .
a further consolidation , a reduction in the debt burden , is desperately needed in many member states , so as to ensure that funds are available in future for health care and provision for old age .
mr president , i want to associate myself this morning with those people who have spoken in this debate and expressed some desire to challenge an atmosphere of complacency about the current state of the european economy .
unfortunately , spring had already started this year .
i would suggest taking into account conclusion 29 of the present report , which advocates a drastic renewal of the intellectual apparatus behind economic policy-making to bring it in line with the lisbon conclusions .
he proposes the drawing up of a single annual report on the economic and social state of the union , and one set of annual guidelines for sustainable growth , employment and social cohesion .
finally , i would like to draw the attention of the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs to the consensus-oriented cooperation which we have enjoyed in the committee on employment and social affairs in this sphere and add that we in this parliament should break though the compartmentalisation and endeavour to rise above the hobbyhorses of this or the other side and to have an input in , for example , next month ' s forum , precisely on that basis .
in my view , flexibility , liberalisation and monetarism are the one-sided aspects of this policy .
i come from a country whose people enjoy the rare privilege of being consulted in connection with such far-reaching decisions as participation in the euro system .
i only have time to mention a couple of points .
the other absolutely crucial point i would mention is directly connected with the subject of the current motion for a resolution : the political weakness of the euro system .
if we go down this path , then , for the first time in years , there is a chance that we could return to full employment in europe , and that is our goal .
mr president , the katiforis report is no more than a mundane vindication of the broad guidelines for the economic policies of the member states .
of its 29 paragraphs , 8 go in for approval and then 4 indulge in self-congratulation .
for our part , we have not been elected to offer congratulations to governments that come to the assistance of big business and major financial groups in order to enable them to accrue even greater wealth by exacerbating inequalities , leaving 18 million women and men unemployed , making flexibility at work and job instability more widespread , by making swingeing cuts in the total wage bill in order to ensure the continued growth of income from capital , including its most parasitic speculative forms .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the european union is having to compete with a series of challenges generated by globalisation and the creation of a new economy based on knowledge and new technologies .
consequently , in my opinion , broad guidelines for economic growth and a rise in employment should include measures to render the european market more competitive and increase job flexibility .
we need to introduce the reforms which will have to be implemented by the member states in order to alleviate the burden on firms , reduce labour costs , sustain actions supporting lifelong learning in the context of a knowledge-based economy and support research to close the gap between europe and the united states and japan .
we need to facilitate public administration structural reform in the countries where excessive red tape is a barrier to private investment and bring the social protection and taxation systems into line with the requirements imposed by the new economic rules and with the constraints established by the stability and growth pact .
the acclaimed macroeconomic development for job creation is so tied up in the self-regulation of the free market that it has not yet created any jobs , rather it has destroyed stable jobs , while , in the worst of cases , contributing to keeping salaries low in precarious employment sectors .
when speaking of the euro , i would point out two things : firstly , i would ask that the problem be looked at in its entirety , not simply the exchange rate problem .
nevertheless , i believe that there were elements prior to lisbon which anticipated or foresaw what was going to happen there and which have been incorporated into the broad guidelines .
many of you have referred to the idea of full employment as a fundamental element .
it is absolutely essential , in speaking of these objectives , that we know whether they are political objectives or whether they represent the possibility of achieving certain economic results , as a consequence of the policies we implement .
in any event , i would say to those who are concerned about this issue that the quantitative and qualitative assessment of full employment will become more efficient when we implement the indicators relating to the different policies .
some speakers have shown a degree of concern about the commission ' s habitual proposals on the flexibility of the labour market .
in our view , this flexibility will lead to a better balance in supply and demand in the labour market .
it will therefore lead to more employment , but also - as we have always argued - greater quality of employment .
the flexibility of the labour market involves many other things : we can talk about regulating working time , but also the removal of all the obstacles which currently stand in the way of employment , such as tax-related issues .
i would like to make an additional comment on two points .
firstly , with regard to the interinstitutional agreement , which has been of concern to the commission , and secondly , the problems of greater coordination in the face of greater subsidiarity .
it is also true that its implementation raises legal problems , as well as problems relating to the status of its participants , but i believe that , in any event , we should be satisfied with the progress made this year .
it does not take the form of an interinstitutional agreement , but the presentation of the document on the results of the broad guidelines for economic policies , which will permit a prior debate in parliament , seems to me to be a positive thing .
lastly , i would like to point out that something has been raised which may seem contradictory between those who argue for greater coordination of economic policies and those who argue for greater subsidiarity in the way these policies are applied .
i realise that for some of you this may seem like interference by the commission in the responsibilities of the member states , but that is what is laid down in the treaty , in the legislation which we have created for ourselves , and that is the commission ' s mandate : to make specific recommendations .
greater coordination and greater definition of global policies does not exclude , however , the existence of an additional margin for action on the part of the member states .
i would like to end my intervention by thanking you all for your contributions , your participation in the debate and for your majority support for the document presented .
perhaps this debate , on the 11 stability plans presented by the countries participating in the euro and the four convergence plans , is a good time to review the harmonisation between the subsidiarity and coordination required by the introduction and future of the single currency .
this , therefore , is the flip-side of the debate which we have just held on the report by mr katiforis , and we must firstly begin to think about the instrument .
i suspect that , in subsequent versions , the report will not be a single whole , but rather a detailed study will have to be made of the solutions , the weak and strong points , which this parliament detects in the economic policies proposed by the member states .
we would ask that the projections they make in the medium and long term take account of different scenarios relating to the development of interest rates , demographic development and other variables affecting the stability of our accounts in the long term .
we also ask in this regard - and i am returning to the debate on subsidiarity - for greater political commitment from the 15 national parliaments .
some member states have subjected the stability and convergence plans to internal debate in order to seek political support for this idea of jointly building economic unity , and we should ask the member states who have not done so to debate these programmes in their parliaments in order to try , firstly , to persuade those states and parliaments to participate in this common task and , secondly , to provide political support for the commitments which are agreed to regarding the necessary coordination of economic policies .
however , this cause for satisfaction is counter-balanced by the fact that , aside from the possible criticism that the objectives could perhaps have been more demanding and rigorous , we are seeing that the objectives have been achieved , not as a result of the interest and efforts of the member states , but simply to factors such as the favourable development of interest rates or greater than expected tax revenue .
we therefore believe that , although budgetary consolidation must continue to be a priority , the economic environment - which has improved a lot - must offer us the possibility of speeding up consolidation and , at the same time , undertaking structural reforms in the medium term .
it is clear that not all the states have implemented the labour reforms which we consider appropriate .
the improved performance of the labour market - which is clear - has been based on satisfactory economic growth , and not all the member states have made the rigorous reforms that they must make , more radical reforms , to resolve the unacceptable problem of the high rate of unemployment in the european countries in comparison to other countries and which is not only an economic blight but also , and above all , a personal and family blight which cannot be permitted in the modern europe of the 21st century .
it is also crucial that we liberalise the telecommunications and energy markets , and not all countries are doing so in the same way .
with regard to tax reform , we should welcome the reduction in the high level of taxes in france , germany , the netherlands and spain , and we should bear in mind that the high rate of unemployment often relates to the fact that we have high levels of tax .
in the long-term reforms , we should also include the serious problem of population .
perhaps it is time that we insisted that member states resolve the demographic problem at source , through a suitable approach to both tax revenue policies and social expenditure , in order to protect families with children .
this is the way to tackle the problem at source , and not only its effects .
that is why this report is so important , and in the light of the rapporteur ' s reference in his explanatory statement to the fact that greece ' s programme is not dealt with in detail in his document as it will form the subject of a special report , then , on behalf of my group , i am bound to say that it will be too late for the special report as far as we are concerned , because matters are not being handled as they were during the debate on the candidate countries two years ago in 1998 .
we have noted that , according to reports by the commission and the ecb , greece is currently fulfilling the convergence criteria , - when they are given a liberal interpretation , as happened in 1998 too - although one cannot help but have some doubts on the sustainability front .
mr president , the group of the party of european socialists endorses the rapporteur ' s proposals because it is quite clear from the first published report on the stability and convergence programmes that these programmes , along with the review , are not a mere exercise , rather , for the very first time within the european union , and especially within the euro zone , it is understood that economic developments , the financial perspectives , and also commitment in terms of budgetary policy , are not just the affair of an individual member state , but of all member states .
after all , monetary union is actually laid down and provided for in the treaty of maastricht as a community of stability .
it is evident from the annual exercise concerning the stability and convergence programmes that the eu member states are seasoned partners that are able to withstand criticism .
hence , the second round will be far more important than the current one , because , for the first time , actual criticism has been voiced .
i therefore believe that if these points were to be taken up , it could further enhance harmonisation , both in the context of the development of the internal market and of the euro zone .
mr president , the liberal group supports the rigorous and demanding report by mr pomes ruiz .
this would mean that we could make far-reaching tax reforms which would contribute to a more favourable environment for our economy , for business initiative , to freeing up resources and promoting them by fiscal means in an area which is one of our priority commitments : to be up-to-date and competitive at the most advanced levels of the information society and in the application of new technologies .
i would therefore like to insist once again on the need for a genuine direction for economic and monetary policy at european union level .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to begin by apologising for the fact that our austrian finance minister was unable , during the previous election period , to achieve the targets set by the council in march 1998 .
however , it is very clear from this report that other member states besides austria failed to adhere to all aspects of the council regulation in question .
the member states ' efforts to overhaul their budgets will only prove successful if there is a clear reduction in the taxation and social contribution burden within the eu .
the rapporteur complains that the objectives are more the result of higher than expected tax revenues and the favourable development of interest rates than of the member states ' own efforts .
however , we feel that , precisely in consideration of these undertakings and in the light of the current situation , the precise nature of any interventions cannot be identified in advance just for the sake of efficient budget control .
on the other hand , we are aware of the need for a more effective convergence process , for economic cohesion and , therefore , also for the approximation of the single currency , whose oscillation is no longer virtual but is in line with prices and taxes ; the need , of course , for more harmonious tax and fiscal policies , but also pricing policies ; for more harmonious investment policies as regards both research and the closing of infrastructure gaps , including within the individual states , but also for greater homogeneity in the action of public administrations .
in the debate we have just held we rather confused the three elements .
i would essentially like to refer to the one which seems essential today , that of the stability pacts , although i will mention certain other points which have been raised .
however , i would like to remind him that , within the framework of subsidiarity , it falls to the member states to define their own stability and growth programmes .
the commission must judge them , but it is not our job to give instructions on this point .
these structural reforms in fact fall within the broad guidelines for economic policies .
however , there is a point - the third which you referred to - which lies between the world of structural reform and the tax obligations relating to the deficit and , above all , the stability of public finances , in particular with regard to debt .
we will present a report in may on this specific point , in which we intend to consider not only the nature of income but also the nature of expenditure as well as how the reduction in public deficit has been achieved and what instruments have been used .
these are instruments of a permanent nature which have the same characteristics in each of the member states .
in many cases the member states have obligations which are not classed as debt , but which do , in fact , constitute debt in one form or another .
all of this will allow us to hold the debate which you have mentioned .
i said that i wanted to make a couple of additional comments on two points that have been raised concerning issues which are not strictly related to this report , but with the previous report .
i understand that concern , mentioned in the commission ' s report , about the sustainability of inflation , but i would also like to provide some information which may clarify the situation .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
adoption of single currency by greece the next item is the report ( a5-0135 / 2000 ) by mr goebbels , on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , on the proposal for a council decision for the adoption by greece of the single currency on 1 january 2001 ( com ( 2000 ) 274 - c5-0226 / 2000 - 2000 / 0110 ( cns ) ) .
it must be noted that private operators have also discovered greece .
the situation is far from perfect , of course .
the committee on economic and monetary affairs stresses the following points .
greece must continue to make efforts in order to ensure that the progress achieved in terms of disinflation has a lasting effect .
cooperation between the two sides of industry seems essential in order to maintain a situation of non-inflationary growth .
even if considerable progress has been achieved in terms of the implementation of structural reforms , greece must step up progress in the reforms which are still necessary , including the effective transposition of european legislation into national law .
parliament ' s response can therefore only be a political one , in favour or against , like any final decision in a genuine democracy .
there are probably some economic risks but these are more significant for greece than for the countries in the euro zone .
in joining the euro zone , greece will be forced to maintain the culture of stability which has been established since 1996 , and this involves pursuing a responsible economic policy .
the committee on economic and monetary affairs , by an overwhelming majority , therefore urges parliament to vote in favour of greece ' s accession to the euro zone in 2001 .
i should like to congratulate the danish and swedish governments on having decided to consult their citizens regarding accession to the single currency .
the shared objective of the fifteen member states to create a european union which is ever more closely bound , particularly comprising an area without internal borders , could not be achieved in full without a single currency .
the united kingdom , as one of the financial capitals of the world , will not be able to claim all the advantages of an ever more integrated european financial market unless it becomes part of it in its own right and takes on all the joint responsibilities and obligations required under economic and monetary union .
of course , the value of the euro has fallen in relation to the dollar and , to a lesser extent , in relation to the yen and the pound .
in the last twenty years , the deutschmark has experienced much more extreme variations in relation to the dollar .
in 1985 , the dollar stood at 3.5 dm .
in order to reach such a low level in relation to the dollar , the rate of the euro would have to fall below 0.6 to the dollar .
the fact is , the economic position of the european union is very sound , and is much more favourable than it has been over the last decade .
generally speaking , good news regarding employment makes the stock exchange nervous , as it makes them afraid of a rise in inflation .
they look for immediate returns , and currently this is a safer bet in the united states , particularly because of its higher interest rates .
this trend looks set to continue , as the federal reserve has just hiked up its interest rates .
with their sheep-like behaviour , however , the markets will ultimately come to realise , mr president , that , in the medium term , the euro will be a more secure currency than the dollar .
this clear endorsement is not diminished in any way when , so as to remain true to our firm belief in a strong euro , sustainability , price stability , and equal treatment of all countries , we inevitably make reference to the need for greece to keep up the good work , and encourage it to do so , and also point out that a great deal still remains to be done in greece before sustainable price stability and a balanced low-debt state sector are achieved .
i say this because whilst we recognise that there has been a sharp decline in the rate of inflation , this can be attributed in part to transient factors .
we are in favour of greek membership , but would call upon and encourage greece to continue to implement the necessary measures and to guarantee sustainability in the spirit of the stability pact .
it is important for the european internal market to at last be properly completed .
this will only be feasible if every last member state of the european union joins monetary union .
like any other member of the european monetary union , greece will have to continue to make efforts and to acquit itself of its responsibilities .
that is why it is so important for there to be consensus between the major political parties and the social partners .
mr president , on behalf of the liberal group i would like to welcome greece into the euro and say that we shall certainly be voting in favour of greek membership .
historically , that research found that the euro actually swooped between a high of usd 1.70 in december 1979 and a low of just usd 0.69 in february 1985 .
it plunged to dem 3.45 against the dollar at the end of february 1985 , which is a third below its current rate of dem 2.16 to the dollar .
a large part of the economy pays no taxes and the basic taxes which exist in other member states do not exist in greece .
the average greek taxpayer pays more than other europeans but total tax revenues in greece are much lower as a percentage of gdp .
this structural change is pending , while our government is confining itself mainly to privatisation .
other important structural changes are also pending , such as the need to strengthen regional authorities and their financial independence , reorganise cooperatives in all sectors from the bottom up and liberalise and strengthen the social economy and the third sector .
these are the areas which need to be strengthened immediately if sustainability is to have a future .
mr president , the european parliament report on greece ' s adoption of the single currency on 1 january 2001 is remarkable , more by virtue of the political will it expresses to enlarge the euro zone than by its concern for technical exactitude .
it is , however , true that greece has made considerable efforts in order to meet the maastricht criteria and has achieved good progress , except in a few areas , such as public debt , but on that subject there are some countries within the euro zone that are doing no better .
nonetheless , the european institutions did not feel that they should postpone greece ' s accession so as not to give the impression that they had anything to fear and , from that point of view , the position seems perfectly logical , albeit somewhat risky .
the fact is , the more the euro zone is extended , the harder it will be for the single currency to represent nations which are very different , and the more it will be recognised that it would be much simpler to make the system more flexible by having the euro develop into simply a common currency , overlapping with the national currencies with a degree of flexibility but not replacing them .
the new democracy team within the european people ' s party has always vigorously supported the policies needed so that greece , which was outside the first round of member states , could honour the obligations needed in order to join the euro zone .
in fact , economic development and convergence policies started in greece at the beginning of the 1990s , as both the commissioner and the representative of the european central bank stressed during the meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , and they concern various governments and various political powers .
emu will be a real success once it succeeds in uniting all the member states , far more member states such as sweden , where convergence is proceeding exceptionally well .
for the time being , we call on the european parliament to vote in favour of greece ' s accession to the euro zone and we assure you that , as far as we , the main opposition are concerned , we shall use our policies to support the efforts being made to apply the rules of the stability pact and to honour joint european obligations within the framework of a unified country without borders .
on 17 january last , the greek drachma was revalued by 2.5 % , mainly to push down inflationary trends .
at the moment , the short-term interest rate in greece is about 600 basic points above the european central bank ' s level .
participation from 1 january 2001 means that the short-term interest rate must come down by the end of this year at the latest .
the world has many examples of where such a slippery slope can lead ; however , there are relatively few examples of a country which has found the strength not only to stop but to reverse the decline and manage to satisfy the extremely stringent stability criteria of today ' s world .
this success is particularly significant because it was built on the basis of an economy which was not rich and not particularly strong .
and we shall make the same effort in the future , not because you are strict and we have to , but because it is in our interests to do so .
this effort is dictated by our wish to have a better standard of living , to run a modern economy and to prosper with the rest of europe .
in joining , we have shown our trust in europe , in monetary union , in the prospect of economic unification and in the success of our common economic fate .
mr president , the commission ' s and the ecb ' s convergence report deals not only with the greek , but also with the swedish , convergence programme .
even if the economies of great britain , denmark and sweden are going well , it must be clearly pointed out , as it was by commissioner solbes mira in the committee on economic and monetary affairs , that , if the spirit of the treaty is to be complied with , no member state can , in the long term , place itself outside so strategic an area of cooperation as the common currency .
the euro provides europe with economic stability and competitiveness .
as far as emu in general is concerned , we are in favour of real economic and monetary union .
this is the opinion expressed by the nobel prize-winning economists friedman , tobin and modigliani .
the goebbels report tells us that parliament ' s reply cannot but be a political one and assures us that greece ' s accession to the euro zone does not involve any political risk .
however , the report adds that there are economic risks and that they are greater in the case of greece than in the case of other countries belonging to the euro zone .
there is no danger to the economies of the other 14 member states .
the sole aim of the economic policy pursued by greece over recent years has been to satisfy the convergence criteria .
the structural changes needed have not been carried out and privatisation has been presented as the new panacea for development and prosperity .
securing budgetary discipline strengthens price stability and creates conditions which are conducive to creating much needed employment within the territories of the union .
the stability and growth pact calls for member states to reach , in the medium term , a budgetary position close to balance or in surplus .
the principle of the stability and growth pact is also a logical progression from the criteria laid down in maastricht for the member states to comply with economic conditions for participation within the new european single currency .
it is clear that greece will shortly join the existing 11 member states who are participating in the economic and monetary union , and i wish to congratulate greece on its economic recovery and wish it well in the future .
it is known that the vast majority of countries from eastern and central europe want to sign up to the process of economic and monetary union in as short a time as possible , but i believe that the european central bank has to outline a clear strategy as to how it intends to bolster the value of the new euro .
mr baron crespo , the problem is that the text is still not available in french , spanish and swedish , thus presenting a problem in terms of our rules of procedure .
that is why the bureau proposed this solution .
mr baron crespo , i quite understand your objection .
we have an agreement with all political groups in this parliament that we would accelerate proceedings for this directive .
the council will be convening before our next plenary sitting .
this means that if we do not adopt a resolution here , the council will be unable to adopt its position either , and everything will be shelved long term .
one thing i would stress , however , is that it will not be acceptable in future , to discuss reports here and , if applicable , vote on them , if a ) if the reports have only been decided on in committee that same week , and b ) the translations are not available either .
ladies and gentlemen , i appreciate the importance of this discussion , but i propose entering the debate on the agenda for tomorrow , as the bureau wished .
the first is this : since this directive was first proposed , the whole furore across the european union because of events in austria and elsewhere , where the extreme right has come forward , has caused us , as a parliament , with the widest possible across-party support , to work with the council and the commission to agree an accelerated timetable to enable this directive to go through to provide the strongest possible response to the racist and extremist threats that undermine our combined values .
that deal with the council and with the portuguese presidency said that we would agree in this parliament this week prior to the council of ministers ' meeting in june .
the debate is indeed going to take place as scheduled on the agenda and , like everyone in the house , i appreciate its importance .
nonetheless , i suggest that you accept my proposal , which is this : that the debate should take place as scheduled on the agenda and , tomorrow , the sovereign assembly , after consulting the groups , shall decide whether or not to vote on this report during the present part-session .
surely it is up to all of us here at the plenary sitting to decide whether or not the vote should take place during this part-session , not the conference of presidents ?
i suggested reconciling points of view within the groups and then tomorrow , in the house , discussing the timeliness of voting this week .
madam president , i just wish to emphasise on behalf of the liberal group the desirability of debating and voting this report this week .
after all , if it were technically impossible , the services would never have proposed that it be voted on tomorrow .
would the presidency please organise the secretariat and herself in such a way as to accord all members the same right to speak on the matters over which they wish to take the floor .
it is deplorable to talk of democracy and human rights and then not give members the right to read the texts in their own language or to speak in the chamber .
furthermore , the increase in the number of vehicles plays a major part in the increase in co2 emissions .
despite its limitations , we nonetheless voted in favour of the gonzalez alvarez report .
smet report ( a5-0129 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the report on the conciliation process concerning the organisation of working time , first and foremost in support of the article on doctors in training .
above all , however , my vote for the motion is an invitation to consider reducing not just the working time in a worker ' s day but the time he spends working over his entire lifetime .
this intolerable situation and the abuse of workers in the above specialist sectors as regards their working times is of a nature and is taking on dimensions which are such that rules must be imposed without delay , given that workers such as doctors in training in great britain work up to 72 hours a week .
under certain conditions , this period can be extended by another two or three years .
needless to say , we feel for the many member states which struggle with inadequate staffing levels in their health sector .
however , the member states have known for a long time that they will need to adapt to the working times directive in the long run .
this favourable vote is of capital importance as it concerns the health and safety of some 7 million workers in europe .
as a french member of the parliament ' s committee on employment and social affairs , at second reading , i supported parliament ' s position which , in particular , provided for a four-year transition period for doctors in training , with a maximum working week of 54 hours , over a four month reference period .
the conciliation process produced an agreement whereby doctors in training will be covered by the directive , as far as its scope of application - a maximum 48-hour working week over a four-month reference period - is concerned , after a period of nine years .
the nine-year period is to be subdivided as follows : a four-year transposition period and a five-year transition period .
in the first three years of the transition period , the number of weekly working hours shall not exceed 58 , or 56 during the last two years .
these states may therefore be permitted an additional period of two years .
the commission will make a statement on the notification of the relevant member state , after consulting employers and workers at european level , as well as representatives of the member states .
the notification , the opinion of the commission and , if this opinion is not acted upon , the member state ' s justification , shall be published in the oj and sent to the european parliament .
mrs smet ' s proposal extends the general rule of 48 hours to some of these sectors .
the position of these doctors in training is similar in many countries : working weeks of 70 and 80 hours in conditions that are occasionally disgraceful and sometimes dangerous to patients .
especially as the proposal divides this twelve year period into several distinct periods , each with their own rules for the maximum working week : until 2004 there will be no change , there will be no restrictions on working hours ; between 2004 and 2007 the maximum working week will be 58 hours ; between 2007 and 2009 it will be 56 hours ; between 2009 and 2012 it will be 52 hours .
roth-berendt report ( a5-0117 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the roth-behrendt report , although , as before , my vote in favour of the motion is also a call for improvement of european legislation in the field of the implementation of the precautionary principle .
it is all very laudable to attempt to prevent the risks of bse at community level today , but it was almost 15 years ago that our researchers clearly established that one of the causes of mad cow disease was the consumption of cattle fodder containing animal-based meal made from ingredients taken from the carcasses of sheep suffering from ovine scrapie .
above all , it would be an outrage if member states which have set up a screening programme based on tests far stricter than the community programme were to be penalised , in terms of classification with regard to bse-related risks , in comparison with states which have confined themselves to the minimum community programme .
this is not the purpose of today ' s report but , in view of debates we will have in future , i wished to state this publicly .
we must give our support to the interoperability of european railways as a means of revitalising and developing the sector at international level , in order better to meet users ' needs , and also as an instrument for protecting the environment .
we are also aware , and are therefore bound to express our concern about this , that the proposals currently being discussed are part of a package of measures designed to liberalise the sector , and that the experiments that have already been carried out in this area have certainly led to a deterioration in safety and social conditions for workers .
savary report ( a5-0112 / 2000 ) madam president , i voted for the second savary report , which differs from the previous report in that it refers to a trans-european high-speed rail system .
my point , this time , is that there is also room for improvement in this high-speed european transport system , in that it should be designed for use by ordinary citizens as well as businessmen who want to travel from madrid to copenhagen or somewhere even further away in as short a time as possible : businessmen can always go by plane .
the high-speed sector and the conventional rail system respond to quite different philosophies .
only half of the members of the very same committee voted for the latter .
on the high-speed rail system report the environment committee , astonishingly , did not deliver any opinion , even if the environmental aspects are not mentioned in it at all .
the objective of the directive before us today was to publish the technical specifications for interoperability ( tsis ) for six sub-systems - maintenance , infrastructure , energy , rolling stock , operation and control-command - beginning the work of standardising components in collaboration with cen , cenelec and etsi , and establishing in each member state a list of notified bodies instructed to assess the conformity of the components produced by the relevant industries .
national disparities are a considerable obstacle to the development of rail transport in europe , in spite of the many advantages of this means of transport in terms of sustainable development , pollution and safety .
the figures speak for themselves : in 1970 , the railways had a 21 % share of the goods transport market ; today they have only 8.5 % .
the second important criterion is the public deficit .
these are the conditions under which the majority of my group will vote in favour of greece joining the euro zone .
the commission has now concluded that greece fulfils all the convergence criteria .
it is quite an achievement to meet the convergence requirements and , at the same time , as greece is doing now , to achieve increases in growth and employment .
however , the swedish parliament has instituted a number of changes to the legislation concerning monetary policy in order to facilitate sweden joining the euro .
the swedish government sets an extremely bad example for the candidate countries which are , at this moment , waiting to join .
greece probably does not meet the criteria any more or less than other countries did .
this affects the large countries such as germany , france and italy as well .
greece joined the european monetary system two years ago and revalued the drachma early this year .
it could only reduce the public debt by a small amount : only by 6 percentage points over eight years , in contrast to italy and belgium , which were able to reduce their debts by a far higher amount .
mr president , i am wholly and unequivocally in favour of greece ' s adoption of the single european currency , the euro .
when , as the report maintains , we consider that all the maastricht criteria are fulfilled and that , in addition , this country is called greece - an enchanting name in itself - we cannot fail to realise that this cannot continue and be moved to remedy the situation .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the progress greece has made in its endeavours to fulfil the convergence criteria is indeed impressive .
greece has only been able to achieve the reference value for the permissible inflation rate in the last few months .
mr president , the euro was born two years ago .
we are , unfortunately , the country without an emu strategy .
for my part , i can only congratulate greece as the twelfth country to adopt the euro .
there needs to be more rationalisation of the budget , more exposure to competition , more deregulation and a more rapid phasing-out of monopolies .
if the governments of europe give priority to this work , we shall immediately find confidence in the euro increasing .
however , i would like to begin by congratulating the greek government on the outstanding results it has achieved in the course of the last year as regards public debt and inflation .
today we are studying the report on convergence , which deals with the swedish and greek problems .
with regard to sweden , the situation has hardly changed since 1998 .
with regard to greece , the situation is radically different .
greece did not fulfil the convergence criteria in 1998 but now it does .
in this respect , it is quite clear that the way we deal with greece will be crucial but i want to insist that greece has been treated in the same way as all the other countries when their situation was considered back in 1998 .
we must not forget that belgium and italy have benefited from the fall in debt resulting from the reduction in interest rates , which is due , in particular , to the approximation of the interest rates of their central banks with those of the european central bank .
the second point of concern is inflation .
i understand this concern on the basis of two arguments : firstly , it is true that the level of inflation necessary to comply with the criteria was achieved relatively recently ; secondly , there will also be a reduction in the interest rates and this will have a positive effect on speeding up the reduction in deficit and debt , but which may generate tensions in the market .
greece has been complying with the inflation criteria for some months and the situation is improving considerably .
at the moment , the harmonised cpi , in the case of greece , stands at 2.1 % , a drop of 0.7 % on the march figure ; this is a better situation , for example , than certain countries of the monetary union , such as belgium , spain , ireland , italy , luxembourg and finland .
in comparative terms , therefore , greece ' s current situation is quite sound .
therefore , in terms of figures , i believe that we should not worry about the greek situation .
however , the commission also shares the concern which certain meps have highlighted .
we have therefore insisted on two points in discussing both the broad guidelines for economic policies and the convergence report .
greece has to do two things , and the greek government is prepared to do them and has committed itself to doing them : firstly , it must continue with its liberalisation policies and structural reforms which will improve the inflation situation ; secondly , greece must continue with its policy of reducing the deficit , but in a context of combining policies , a ' policy mix ' , which will allow it , in the event that an increase in demand , resulting from a reduction in interest rates , may create tension in terms of inflation , to reconsider its tax policy so that it will not have negative effects on the process of integration into monetary union .
we must wait for its culmination with the decisions in june , but i am convinced that , by welcoming greece into the euro when the time is right , we will generate more confidence in the face of any other type of arguments against the future progress of the single currency .
thank you very much , commissioner solbes mira .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
but today ' s debate is to be welcomed with open arms because it exemplifies the new form of transparency in the commission ' s legislative work in areas where it has supervisory powers , and also bears witness to the interest commissioner monti and his offices take in the opinion of the european parliament .
the businesses which the directive covers have special or exclusive rights or provide services of general economic interest .
the majority of the committee on economic and monetary affairs has wholeheartedly endorsed this measure because there is a need for more transparency within the internal market .
it is for the member states to decide whether supplying television transmitters constitutes a public task and , as such , whether or not every single transmission is included .
however , competition rules are not an end in themselves but the means to an end of undisrupted operation of a social market economy in the internal market .
mr president , article 86 of the treaty captures the very essence of the resolution .
paragraph 1 stipulates that in the case of public undertakings and undertakings to which member states grant special or exclusive rights , member states shall neither enact nor maintain in force any measure contrary to the rules contained in this treaty .
paragraph 2 adds , in summary , that undertakings entrusted with the operation of services of general economic interest shall be subject to the rules contained in this treaty .
as a means of guaranteeing a level playing field , the commission has decided that undertakings with a net turnover in excess of eur 40 million should keep separate accounts which should illustrate the different activities , the costs and profits pertaining to each of the activities , the method according to which costs and profit are accounted for and the way in which the net profits generated by each activity are used .
in actual fact , there was only a handful of ppe-de members and the liberal group who were in favour of the planned transparency .
the commission is , in turn , responsible for observing article 86 .
in the report on the adoption of the single currency by greece , i blame the governments for not doing what needs to be done .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i should like to make three points regarding this directive , and the consultation , on which i should like to congratulate our rapporteur .
at the present time , there is no definition of services of general economic interest at european union level .
we must therefore bring subsidiarity into play , and we are well aware that in such areas , national sensibilities may be expressed in diverse ways .
my third observation , commissioner , is on public broadcasting services .
once again , i cannot ignore what we incorporated into our treaty when we amended it in amsterdam .
this shows the determination of the member states to treat this sector as a sector in its own right falling outside the rules of competition which exist in other areas .
state radio stations and tv companies now often provide services which are outside the scope of what we call services in the public interest .
both these obligations are simple means of upholding the rules governing relations between private and public undertakings .
first of all , i should like to thank commissioner monti for having had the courtesy to consult the european parliament .
my second comment concerns the actual purpose of this proposed directive .
thirdly , i should like to know the commission ' s reaction to recital no 4 of our report , in which the rapporteur and the committee on economic and monetary affairs effectively ask the commission to specify how important it considers services of general interest to be .
i should therefore like to see the commission expressing its support for amendment no 3 as proposed in plenary .
thank you very much , mr president .
i would like to join my colleagues in thanking commissioner monti for consulting parliament on this matter and in congratulating our rapporteur for her great job .
there are those who would like to see undertakings which are only in direct competition with the private sector to be subject to the terms of this directive , whilst others would propose that public undertakings which are clearly of a general interest could fall within the exceptions in this directive .
i would like to remind this house that the protocol attached to the treaty of amsterdam of the eu recognises that the system of public broadcasting within member states of the eu is directly related to the democratic , social and cultural needs of our society .
i would argue that it is more essential , now that we have a strong public service broadcasting sector , to ensure the maintenance of that democratic , social and cultural sector .
this directive has been in force since 1980 and it is certainly high time that it was revised , because it is out-of-date in many aspects on account of the liberalisation process .
these credit institutions were completely excluded hitherto .
fourthly : the definition of services of general economic interest .
i obviously agree with the rapporteur that competition rules must be applied rigorously in order to prevent cross-subsidies that go against the purpose of the aid .
however , in the sphere of public broadcasting it is essential to remember that , in accordance with the amsterdam protocol , in the system of public broadcasting in member states , it is up to each member state to specify the financial and organisational structure of public service broadcasting .
mr president , despite this discussion in parliament concerning the changes which the commission would like to make to the directive on the transparency of financial relations between member states and public undertakings , we will not have much of a say in it because it will be the commission , and the commission only , that will make decisions without further involving the european parliament or the council , much to our regret .
in our opinion , on the basis of its autonomous powers concerning competition policy , the commission approaches some sectors from a purely economic angle without taking into consideration other social aspects .
for example , in the dossier on financing public broadcasting , the commission still overlooks the cultural aspects and the aspect of media-pluralism , to our mind .
i am , therefore , of the opinion that the igc should apply the normal legislative procedure for codecision by the council and parliament to general competition policy legislation .
as it stands , the directive on transparency gives the commission the authority to carry out inquiries into financial relations between member states and their public undertakings .
in short , the draft amendment to the directive is intended to ensure the introduction of separate accounting procedures for specific types of firms .
clearly , the profits generated by the continuation of reserved activities or by compensation provided for reasons of general interest or public service are not intended to finance competitive activities , and must therefore not give rise to internal subsidies .
i would also like to stress that the obligation to keep separate accounts also benefits the member states , in that it provides them with the necessary information in order to avoid granting state aid which does not comply with the treaty and to notify the commission of the aid envisaged .
the directive requires that companies which provide general services and which , at the same time , operate outside that public service mission , keep separate accounts .
the directive lays down the principles for the introduction of greater transparency , although , in observance of the subsidiarity principle , it leaves the member states free to adopt appropriate national measures .
mrs beres , mr jonckheer , mr crowley , mr skinner and mrs maes remarked that it might be possible to exclude broadcasting .
if we were to raise this threshold we would be excluding companies where , due to their size , we cannot suppose that the aid does not affect trade between member states .
in any case , in order to give an idea of the size , only 0.2 % of all non-farming enterprises in the community are above this threshold .
as mr olle schmidt stressed , this transparency is essential not only for a proper application of competition policy but , indeed , if i may say so , it is also crucial for there to be a proper relationship between the authorities and the taxpayers , the citizens .
thank you very much , commissioner monti .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
the un secretary-general also fervently appealed , on 3 april last , to the donor countries and international financial institutions to cancel all the official debts of the highly indebted poor countries from their accounts as a millennium gesture .
therefore , i would ask whether the council is aware of all the initiatives which have hitherto been adopted by each individual country of the union to reduce or cancel the debt of highly indebted poor countries , and whether it would be possible for a resume to be produced showing the practical actions which have been undertaken by these countries and the commitments made , to prove that these initiatives are not just mere political vote-winning manoeuvres , as they all too often appear to be .
mr president , resolving the problem of the external debt of less developed countries is undoubtedly an essential factor in the stability , security and development of these countries , in eradicating poverty and in stemming the migratory flows that affect and weaken them .
a project of this kind can only succeed through debt relief , which cannot be reduced to a process that is merely full of good intentions , as recommended by the g7 countries , whose contribution represents no more than 1 % of third world debt and which is today limited in practice to partial debt relief for just three or four countries .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , initiatives in favour of cancelling all or part of the third world debt are proliferating in the year 2000 .
not only do the countries of the south not have the financial resources to pay back their debts but , on top of that , the international economic order , which has foisted a demented concept of liberalism on the world , is preventing the majority of our partners in the south - i am thinking in particular of those in northern africa and sub-saharan africa - acceding to the conditions for development that is even remotely sustainable .
political and economic balance are , on the other hand , devastating to a world which is increasingly unipolar .
mr president , hearing the other speakers , i note that we all agree on the facts .
the 50 poorest countries spend twice what they receive in aid in order to pay off their debt .
an average of 40 % of the budget of poor countries is dedicated to debt payments .
not only does that undermine their economic development , not only does that significantly reduce their ability to provide basic social services , such as health or education , but it creates a sort of slavery which benefits western societies .
the g7 countries announced amid much publicity a debt reduction programme , but conditions are such that it cannot be applied .
this initiative remains subject to macroeconomic reform programmes under the aegis of the imf or the world bank , which run counter to the objectives of eradicating poverty , due to their restrictive effect on the ability to spend on social services and job creation .
the indebted countries were expecting a strong message from the conference between the european union and africa held in cairo recently .
finally , what is the commission ' s reaction to the requests presented by some civil society organisations in the countries of the south for improvements in monitoring the macroeconomic adaptation plan , by organising conferences on national development , in order to give public opinion in these countries an opportunity to define national priorities and projects ?
nevertheless , it should be noted that the european union has not shrunk from participating in all the initiatives to provide debt relief for the poorest countries .
the community and the member states then committed themselves to take part in this initiative by providing exceptional aid to the acp countries on the basis of the commitment given by the international financial community to reduce the indebtedness of these countries to a sustainable level , on condition that the countries concerned would implement economic reform programmes .
in july 1998 , the council approved a decision on exceptional aid for the highly indebted acp countries and earmarked an initial sum of eur 40 million from the interest accumulated on european development fund funds .
in june 1999 , at the g7 summit , the heads of state and government agreed to extend the hipc initiative in order to provide more substantial and speedy debt relief .
these resources could also be used , up to a maximum of eur 680 million , as a contribution to the hipc trust fund managed by the world bank , with a view to overall financing of this initiative .
the european union has also guaranteed eur 250 million of additional constitutional funds for structural adjustment , to make it easier for eligible countries to access debt cancellation measures .
furthermore , it is worth adding that , following the resolutions i have just mentioned , and also as a result of the decisions taken at the recent cairo summit , various member states have stated that they are already willing to unilaterally add their own measures for the reduction , conversion or complete cancellation of huge amounts owed by developing countries , particularly by the highly indebted poor countries .
the european union believes that improvements to this initiative must be based on integrated programmes which link debt relief more closely to the objectives of sustainable development and the reduction of poverty .
despite these efforts by the european union , the current problem is not so much one of increasing debt cancellation , but of ensuring that the new , enhanced hipc initiative is effectively implemented by all donors .
parliament will be kept informed about these developments on a regular basis , and in particular about the progress of the decision to participate in the hipc initiative .
as to total debt cancellation , which some honourable members have also suggested , it is worth remembering that the experts in this field would come up with various arguments against this option .
this was launched in september 1996 with the aim of helping to relieve the debt burden of the poorest countries that make adjustment efforts in a concerted way .
in 1999 , on the occasion of the g7 cologne summit , ministers agreed to an expanded and more flexible initiative that will provide faster , deeper and broader debt relief .
for the record , the commission has already made a large contribution to hipc i .
the council adopted , on 6 july 1998 , a decision on the community ' s participation in the hipc initiative with regard to its claims , special loans and risk capital managed by the european investment bank for eligible acp countries .
we set aside eur 40 million of interest accumulated on edf funds which should cover the cost for the first six country cases .
community assistance for uganda and guyana was delivered in mid-1998 and early 2000 , amounting to eur 4.59 million and eur 6.44 million respectively .
the community has since decided to considerably enhance support for the hipc ii initiative .
the eur 680 million community contribution originating from the edf will be channelled to the hipc trust fund in 3 tranches taking into consideration effective financing needs as well as support from other donors .
according to the information available , needs for the first tranche this year will be in the order of the magnitude of eur 250 million .
besides these contributions to be financed from uncommitted edf funds , a eur 54 million contribution to the hipc trust fund will also be made towards non-acp hipcs drawing on resources from the budgetary lines for latin america and asia .
we want , in other words , to make sure that the eu participation in hipc is global and in accordance with the figures in hipc .
finally , it must be stressed that the acp / eu council decision to reinforce the ec structural adjustment facility by eur 250 million will partly be used to provide interim relief to eligible hipc countries belonging to the acp .
as regards other contributions to the hipc trust fund , it may be worth noting that the draft budget by the us administration suggests a us contribution of usd 600 million which follows on from pledges made earlier and which corresponds to the share of hipc calculated by the world bank for the us .
this draft budget needs to be passed in congress and this is definitely facing some difficulties .
the funds released by the commission for the hipc initiative are subject to the same principles as other funds originating from the european development fund and the commission is carefully involving the edf committee , that is member states , at all stages .
politically speaking , it would not make sense to stop edf financed projects in article 366 ( b ) countries and to provide them with ec quasi direct non-earmarked budget support , for example through hipc debt relief mechanisms .
it is the very purpose of article 366 ( b ) in its present form to make things more complicated for countries breaching elementary human rights and good governance principles .
the concept of the poverty reduction strategy papers was launched to provide a framework for mainstreaming poverty reduction in government and donor policies .
the commission has expressed its strong support for this radically new approach initiated by the world bank and the imf .
the commission attaches particular importance to an open participatory process involving civil society , parliaments and all relevant international institutions and donors .
the community is maintaining and stepping up its commitment to support macroeconomic reforms , social sectors , regional integration and sound economic management .
this is all needed in order to make sure that fighting poverty remains the central theme when we are actually improving the situation of these poor countries through the enhanced hipc initiative .
mr president , when one hears of the horrendous debt that has built up in many african states , the first reaction is one of deep sympathy .
i will be criticised by some honourable members for saying it , but conditionality must be built into not only development aid but also debt relief .
a long-term strategy is essential , and cancelling the debt is the starting point for such a strategy .
the resolution puts forward two major options : new sustainability criteria and greater flexibility for the more indebted countries , and the bilateral cancellation of the debts of the least developed acp countries .
our commitment to cancelling the debt is a precondition for the introduction of all the policies for reducing poverty .
the recent eu-acp agreements follow this rationale and provide assistance for the 31 least developed countries over a period of time which should end in 2005 .
in this context , it is essential to involve the private sector in order to boost trade exchange and , in addition to transferring resources , to create the necessary conditions for the growth of an internal market for developing countries , and provide incentives as well as laying down conditions .
this should be facilitated in a joint effort involving all creditors , the union , the states , especially the united states , international institutions and banks .
it is essential in this respect to tackle not just the social problems , but also to lay a firm foundation for sustainable economic development .
the imf and the world bank started an initiative back in 1996 to relieve the debts of the poorest countries .
we think this is a more serious solution to the problems of the third world than the outrageous recommendation which the un made on 4 january to the effect that , in order to offset its falling birth rate , europe should prepare to accept 159 million immigrants from african countries over the next 25 years .
the real solution is in africa in the form of a development policy which enables africans to live in their own countries , which raises the question of the alleged benefits of free trade .
we therefore welcome national and international initiatives to reduce debts with open arms .
however , i cannot refrain from making a number of critical remarks in respect of the proud announcements made by a number of g7 countries over the past few years .
these rich countries boast about the fact that they no longer make a fuss about the gigantic amounts which these poor countries owe them .
experiences with the hipc initiative dating back to 1996 , however , have shown that debt reduction has not always had an altogether positive effect on the development of the poor .
in the best-case scenarios , 100 % debt relief only yields an actual 40 % reduction in the debt .
the question we are left with today is : what will come of this ?
we have heard a few examples from the hipc-i and hipc-ii programmes and i understand that 1 billion is tied up in this second programme .
the total debt burden of all developing countries comes to 350 billion .
many of those countries pay 25 % to 40 % of their national budget on interest and repayment into banks in western europe , the united states and japan .
mr president , i have listened with interest to both the council and the commission .
the socialist group considers that the debt which blights the development of the world ' s poorest countries cannot be dealt with in isolation , as a purely financial problem , but it must be dealt with within the framework of a broad and coherent strategy which , through the eradication of poverty , leads to development .
to this end , firstly , the cancellation of debt must not involve the removal of other sources of finance , but cancellation must be one more measure in a coherent development policy .
secondly , the funds made available through the cancellation of debt must be used for human development funds , particularly for investment in health and education .
in order to be effective , in development terms , the cancellation of debt also requires , as we request in the resolution , a global strategy implemented in unison in and by the international financial institutions .
the european union , as a major contributor of development aid , must coordinate its action in this regard and make the elimination of poverty the common objective of its member states , one aspect of this being the cancellation of debt in the poorest countries .
the common foreign and security policy , which we too often treat as just a security policy , must address this issue as well as commercial and development policies .
by uniting the actions of debtors and creditors in a global strategy aimed at the elimination of poverty , it is possible that we will achieve objective 15 of the copenhagen summit on social development , which is an objective which we fully identify with .
we therefore strongly urge all member states and the commission to support the international financial institutions ' hipc initiative for highly indebted poor countries .
mr president , it is commendable that the international community is apparently serious about reducing debt .
it is also the case that we are still waiting for the world bank and the imf to come up with something similar to the european union .
all g7 countries have promised some form of 100 % debt cancellation , but many of them are very slow and disinclined to do it in the way that we would like .
on mozambique , for instance , it is very significant that the imf , the world bank and the paris club only postponed payments from mozambique and then actually lent more money .
of course , i agree with all my colleagues , the poorest countries who fulfil the criteria of delivering debt relief to those countries that show a commitment to social sector and human development support .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i think that it has become quite clear today that the situation referred to in the question is of great concern and has attracted the council ' s attention .
this is essentially an issue on which there is a degree of agreement , particularly within the european union .
the portuguese presidency of the european union has furthermore taken care to include this issue in its working programme and has ensured that it was a key part of the agenda of the cairo euro-african summit .
there are indeed problems of inequality and of the uneven distribution of wealth in these countries , but these problems must be overcome through political solutions .
what we must not forget is that there is a code of conduct for the internal management of resource allocation , and in particular for resources released for these countries as debt relief .
working towards good governance and working towards strengthening democratic structures and political participation are vital factors in creating free societies which provide for better management of internal resources and more appropriate management of wealth distribution and , in particular , which do not encourage corruption and the siphoning-off of funds .
it is our opinion that these issues are fundamentally linked to development .
as i said , the issue of debt is a symptom of a much more global issue , namely development .
in a way , one could say that we are witnessing a move from the washington consensus to the copenhagen consensus .
firstly , the cost of the hipc initiative would increase dramatically because the wealthier these countries are , or the less poor , the bigger the debt they have acquired .
the idea was never to cancel all debt from the third world countries because that was totally impracticable .
we are at a level of 0.22 % or 0.23 % for official development assistance , far from the 0.7 % target that in principle everybody has agreed to and which only a limited number of countries have actually reached .
the nice thing about it is that the acp countries accepted it , and this is a reallocation that moves money from the relatively better-off to the poorest countries in the acp group .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
situation in zimbabwe the next item is the statements by the commission and the council on the situation in zimbabwe .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the present pre-election campaign period in zimbabwe continues to be marked by a climate of intimidation towards the opposition and a lack of respect for the law and for citizens ' rights , sometimes with tragic consequences .
the situation has been growing worse despite considerable international efforts , particularly by the european union , to persuade president mugabe to order the so-called ' veterans ' to leave the farmers ' properties that they have invaded immediately , so as to guarantee the safety of all citizens , and in particular foreign nationals resident in zimbabwe .
as for the fundamental issue behind the current crisis - land - the european union has continued to state its willingness to help zimbabwe to implement a redistribution of farmland which is compatible with respect for property rights and , in particular , with the principles and conclusions of the donors conference on land reform and resettlement in zimbabwe , held in harare in 1998 .
with regard to the forthcoming parliamentary elections in zimbabwe , which have been set for 24 and 25 june , it is more vital than ever for them to be held in a free , fair and transparent way and within the deadline that has been set .
the troika of european union heads of mission in harare will personally convey this message to the zimbabwean authorities .
the commission representatives will travel there on friday 19 may to prepare for the mission of election observers in order to verify that the appropriate conditions have been met .
parliamentary elections have now been announced by the government for 24 and 25 june .
recent weeks have witnessed a series of international initiatives to facilitate the holding of free and fair elections .
the general affairs council of 10 april urged the government of zimbabwe to create the conditions to hold free and fair elections .
the commission continues to urge the government of zimbabwe to hold elections , free of intimidation .
i had a very direct conversation with president mugabe at the eu-africa summit .
the commission electoral assessment mission now in zimbabwe is discussing with member states arrangements to deal with the logistical and operational aspects of this exercise , in particular , funding , freedom of movement and security of service .
however , international observers could play an important role in deterring violence and building confidence , especially in the rural areas .
a preliminary eu proposal currently being developed would see the deployment of 150 observers , 100 of whom would be deployed in the first week of june to observe the electoral campaign and the rest to augment the eu ' s observation of the vote and the count .
consultations with the government , coordination with other international observer missions , such as the commonwealth , us and norway , and with local observation initiatives are on-going .
mr president , i suppose i can start on a note of slight optimism in that president mugabe has now named the days for the election as 24 and 25 june .
president mugabe should never forget the economic damage that will be done to zimbabwe ' s economy if land redistribution simply means the land goes back to subsistence farming in small blocks .
i am sorry that president mbeki , his successor , who is probably the most powerful leader in africa , has not in public condemned the violence in zimbabwe .
we in parliament are right to call on the commission to review its development cooperation with zimbabwe if transparent elections are not held or if the opposition wins and the violence continues .
the use of article 366 should be considered .
the world bank has now cut funding because of debt arrears and zimbabwe , as a country , is in liquidation .
i also welcome the fact that we will be supporting civil society ' s objectives in these next few weeks .
i very much hope , commissioner , that we will disseminate this kind of information in zimbabwe because those people trying to mount an opposition campaign will be heartened by the kind of information that we have had from you today and i think that would be important .
the commissioner did not mention this , but it would be sensible to do so because tv , radio and state-owned newspapers in zimbabwe are acting now as if they were the agents of zanu-pf .
i would really like to know what we can do from the european union to try to ensure that the opposition groups - and there are 26 parties standing in the election - have some access to the media .
state-controlled media , commissioner , is refusing to take paid advertising even from the main ngos who are just working to support the electoral process and democracy in zimbabwe , or from any opposition parties .
i even read in the british press that kabila and qadhafi are giving money now to mugabe ' s campaign , which is a bit frightening .
this is wrong because the role of these government civil servants in the last referendum was very dubious indeed .
finally , president , let us be sure that we work as a european union to create the conditions which will allow the people of zimbabwe to express their choices in this election in june and express their choices in secret and without fear .
according to the zimbabwean election monitors , the incessant violence renders free and fair elections impossible .
a situation whereby mr mugabe legitimises his position through violence and intimidation must be avoided at all costs .
cecil rhodes , one of britain 's most successful colonists , said the purpose of colonialism was : " to find new lands in which we can easily obtain raw materials and at the same time exploit the cheap labour that is available from the natives of the colonies " .
the legacy of this barbarically successful strategy can be seen in the chaos that is happening in zimbabwe today .
today , just 4 000 white farmers still own over 70 % of the arable land while more than seven million black zimbabweans scratch a living from overcrowded communal areas .
this makes president mugabe ' s refusal to proceed with the lawful land redistribution programme even more deplorable .
it is a fearsomely difficult problem when mugabe will not negotiate .
the british government must recognise the moral debt owed for crimes of slavery and colonialism and continue to do all in its power to support a peaceful and progressive settlement to the land issues in zimbabwe .
they have now been announced , but for 24 and 25 june .
we subsequently called upon the zimbabwean authorities to respect human rights , including minority rights , as well as international electoral law .
what we are witnessing is a country being held hostage , and we ourselves are finding it difficult to define a fair position given the dramatic nature of the situation , because the appeals for help that are reaching us from zimbabwe , from the mdc and from the democratic forces , say that it is a bad thing that the elections are being held , because they will probably be unfair , such is the scale of intimidation ; yet not holding them would be worse .
we have already been reminded here , and rightly so , of the atrocities committed in the past in matabeleland and ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , the story of zimbabwe is one of hope turning to despair - hope that in 1980 zimbabwe could have realised its full potential and become a leading country in africa ; despair now because the father of the nation has reduced his creation from being one of the richest and most educated of african countries to being one of the poorest .
today the country is suffering from 50 % unemployment and 60 % inflation ; he is spending usd 1 million a day on a foreign adventure in the congo ; the foreign exchange reserves have gone and the world bank has suspended funding on projects .
the country is one of the most educated in africa and the european union should be proud of its role in helping to set up that educational support structure in the past 20 years .
the opposition parties want more transparency .
on 24 june elections are going to be held .
yesterday , the commonwealth secretary-general said that it is still possible to have free elections .
the future of the country lies with the young people of zimbabwe .
if the commission were not to do this , the illegal dispossessions of land could spread to the rest of southern africa and this would be a disaster , not only for the area concerned , but also for the rest of africa .
threats can never create confidence and social harmony .
since independence in 1980 , sweden has provided a total of sek 2 billion in aid , corresponding to usd 220 million .
we believed in you , president mugabe , and in your country ' s future because you wanted to uphold the christian view of human beings in zimbabwe .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i would just like to say a few words about the importance of this debate and , in particular , about the fact that it is quite appropriate that this house has once again expressed its concern about such a topical issue which has caused so much concern in the european union .
i hope we can solve the problems of funding of the observer mission .
i have to tell parliament that this once again demonstrates the inadequacy of our system .
this is the kind of system we have .
we are deciding on a eur 19 million grant for very targeted poverty alleviation in zimbabwe via a microproject scheme , part of which will be used to support resettlement of the poorest people on legally acquired land .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow , thursday , at 12 noon .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0220 / 2000 ) .
i would like to remind you that we are 20 minutes behind schedule .
question no 1 by ( h-0350 / 00 ) : subject : undesirable persons in turkey the turkish newspaper ' sabah ' has published a list of 56 persons considered undesirable in turkey .
the list includes numerous political representatives from several european union countries ( denmark , italy , greece , sweden and spain ) and also from non-member states , together with a large number of journalists , clergymen , members of humanitarian organisations etc .
this issue was specifically raised by the presidency at the association council meeting between the european union and turkey on 11 april 2000 .
the council will monitor all of these issues and will not fail , whenever necessary , to convey any information to this house which is relevant to progress with this accession strategy and , in particular , its views on turkey ' s compliance with requirements for the future opening of accession negotiations by the european union .
you will notice that the date on this question is 30 march 2000 , which was two weeks before the last part-session .
there seems to be some system whereby mr alavanos and his colleagues always get the first and second questions , and they always attack turkey .
mr purvis , i believe that we should not enter into any judgement of intentions .
what i can tell you is that it is not the greek communist party but synaspismos .
however , we shall continue with our agenda .
i will take good note of your question .
question no 2 by ( h-0361 / 00 ) : subject : dispute between armenia and turkey on 11 december 1999 the council accepted turkey ' s application for accession to the european union .
paragraph 3 of parliament ' s resolution of 18 june 1987 ' calls on the council to obtain from the present turkish government an acknowledgement of the genocide perpetrated against the armenians in 1915-1917 and to promote the establishment of a dialogue between turkey and the representatives of the armenians ' .
the objective of european union policy in this area has obviously been to promote stability in the caucasus , both between countries in the region , specifically in relation to nagorno-karabakh , and between the countries themselves and their neighbours .
in view of this , it is worth pointing out that cooperation between the european union and armenia is part of the acquis communautaire which turkey will have to adopt if the negotiating process begins .
we do not , however , know today what measures have been taken by successive councils in order to attempt to establish relations between both these countries , given that today turkey is still imposing an economic blockade on armenia .
my question is therefore as follows : in the context of negotiations with a view to turkey ' s accession to the european union , has the issue of this blockade been raised , and could lifting this blockade be counted a precondition to turkey ' s accession ?
the honourable member has asked two questions .
with regard to relations between armenia and turkey , which we hope will be positive in future , all that the european union has done is to try to ensure that turkey complies with the european union ' s normal framework of external relations .
this has , until now , been a purely bilateral issue and the european union cannot , therefore , intervene in it .
mr president , in reply to this question , i think that in terms of day-to-day relations between the council and the european parliament , it would be useful if we could make full use of the facilities that the transparency process for council information provides for all citizens , including members of the european parliament .
mr president , i wish to begin by saying how delighted i am that the presidency is prepared to put some pressure on the governments which , in turn , i hope will put pressure on their parliaments to proceed with ratification .
it is quite shaming that after well over six months there are eight member states still to ratify .
commissioner patten is determined to reinvigorate the whole barcelona process and the european-mediterranean relationship .
specifically , with regard to the agreement with jordan , even though we acknowledge and regret the fact that the agreement is not yet in force , previous experience has shown that these agreements take around three years to be ratified .
as the author is not present , question no 4 lapses .
as you will be aware , when the council ' s mandate for the seattle summit was being prepared , many member states were particularly careful to stress cultural aspects and , above all , the european union ' s need to adopt a very firm position in these negotiations on protecting the specific nature of culture .
i would therefore remind you that in the conclusions of the council meeting on 26 october on the preparation of the seattle ministerial conference , the idea was expressed that during the forthcoming wto negotiations , the union would try to ensure , as it did in the uruguay round , that the member states which comprise the community would be able to preserve their cultural diversity by maintaining their own cultural and audiovisual policies .
honourable members will be as aware as i am of the fate that befell the launch of the new round of wto negotiations in seattle , which has , of course , led to delays in addressing issues of this kind .
nevertheless , it is worth noting that within the specific framework of the gatt agreement , that is , of the general agreement on trade in services , it was specified that negotiations on the so-called built-in agenda would have to begin on 1 january 2000 .
i wish to thank the president-in-office for his response .
the reason for asking the question is that we have in our own ideologies many different models at a european union level which are unique to the european union as a whole : many times we speak of the european model of agriculture or the european social model , and so on .
in particular , with regard to things like audiovisual , we had a discussion today in parliament on the randzio-plath report on transparency and financial dealings between undertakings and state aid .
that is constantly undermining what is unique not only about europe as a continent but also about the individual member states .
i hope that you and your colleagues will be vigilant in ensuring that we have the opportunity to maintain that diversity , as it adds to what essentially the core of europe is all about .
as the authors are not present , question nos 6 and 7 lapse .
turning to the question about financing our policy in kosovo through the agricultural budget , i must make it absolutely clear that the united nations mission in kosovo cannot possibly be financed from agricultural budget headings , since there is no appropriate legal basis for this .
the current financial regulations do not allow for appropriations to be transferred between two headings in the financial perspectives .
this does not necessarily mean that there is no intention , as specifically announced by the commission , to propose an amendment to the 2000-2006 financial perspectives which , in the commission ' s view , would not fundamentally affect cap appropriations .
we know that in this house , too , a majority is against a review of the financial perspectives which would lead to a reduction in the amount available for the common agricultural policy .
but as i have said , the council ' s position on this issue is , in political terms , to oppose a review of the financial perspectives .
the council feels that it is only on the basis of this kind of information that an accurate assessment of the commission ' s proposals can be made .
although i am in favour of aid to kosovo , i am not in favour - in fact i consider it an outrage - of taking money intended for agriculture , approved under agenda 2000 - since if we do this it shows that it has been nothing but a smokescreen - and dedicating it to foreign policy .
my question is as follows : what do we do when the council says something diametrically opposed to what the commission says ?
first he assures us that no part of the cap budget will be used for kosovo or for exercising the european union ' s foreign policy and then he says that , in any case , the commission has said - and rightly so - that any sums not taken up will be shared out .
apart from our opposition to the entire policy being exercised by the european union in kosovo , the issue at stake is this : we want a commitment from the council that not one single euro from the agricultural budget will be channelled elsewhere .
i would also like to say that , with regard to the commission ' s proposal , i stated quite clearly that currently there is not a universally positive attitude to changing the 2000-2006 financial perspectives in the council .
it is , however , also obvious that the berlin european council conclusions are relevant here , as they show that the financial perspectives for the period 2000-2006 provide for a mid-term review , specifically with regard to the common agricultural policy .
as the author is not present , question no 9 lapses .
question no 10 by ( h-0381 / 00 ) : subject : financial assistance to european-level parties replying to my oral question h-0268 / 00 in parliament on 12 april 2000 , the commission took the view that : ' the present article 191 of the treaty establishing the ec does not constitute a legal basis for funding european political parties .
the commission therefore considers that in the interests of legal certainty it would be best to incorporate an appropriate legal basis for such expenditure in the treaty establishing the ec .
mr president , as the honourable member ' s question states , it is true that article 191 of the treaty does not constitute a legal basis for the funding of european political parties .
i myself , as chair of the preparatory group , intend to have this issue put on the igc agenda once again by the end of the portuguese presidency .
in any event , i think that , at the moment , as there is no legal basis , all we can do is try to discover , through the various member states participating in the igc , whether or not there is a will to work towards funding for european political parties .
the report on parliament ' s financial administration , in which all political groups were criticised for having channelled parliamentary appropriations into european political parties also , did not take into account the fact , for example , that the office of the party of european socialists is situated within the european parliament buildings , whereas my own group , the ppe , received a great deal of criticism despite the fact that our party office is situated away from the european parliament ' s services .
the question concerns the legal basis and the intergovernmental conference .
as the author is not present , question no 11 lapses .
i think that this situation is scandalous in every sense of the word from an international and political point of view and i wonder how you tolerate it .
mr president , i wish to thank mr gallagher for his question , particularly as it gives me a further opportunity to provide the house with information about the work resulting from the adoption by the special european council in lisbon of a set of measures to improve the fight against unemployment and to encourage economic reform and innovation .
we feel that the european charter on small- and medium-sized enterprises due to be approved this june is an extremely important instrument for guaranteeing improvements in the fight against unemployment , in increasing social cohesion and also in improving the foundations on which the new knowledge society is based , by making instruments for innovation more democratic .
i am also pleased that the president-in-office has recognised that the engine of growth in the economy are the smes providing 70 % of the jobs .
therefore , it is blindingly obvious that smes will play an important role if we are to resolve the very high unemployment problems that we have generally in the union and specifically in various regions of the union .
nevertheless , in line with the understanding that there has been about addressing this issue on the part of both the commission and the council - and this issue will , for example , be considered by the industry council tomorrow - we acknowledge the very specific nature of the fisheries sector and we share your concern about the importance of small- and medium-sized enterprises operating in this sector .
the charter is designed to create a universal regulatory framework for small- and medium-sized enterprises as defined at european level , and also to establish stages for implementing these measures .
can the president-in-office tell us if this charter will envisage new community instruments being created to help small- and medium-sized enterprises .
i recognise that small- and medium-sized enterprises probably lost patience a long time ago with the lack of concrete measures aimed specifically at them .
in fact , the draft version of this charter will be considered by the industry council tomorrow and the charter will be published in three weeks .
as they deal with the same subject , question nos 15 and 16 will be taken together .
question no 15 by ( h-0391 / 00 ) : subject : specific directive to combat discrimination against the disabled pursuant to article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam , which provides for action to combat discrimination , the commission has recently presented a package of measures which include three directives .
question no 16 by ( h-0396 / 00 ) : subject : combating discrimination at the start of the twenty-first century , which signals a new departure by european society in the direction of greater democracy , cohesion and recognition of the contributions of all citizens , the unacceptable phenomena of racism and social exclusion can be observed .
the commission ' s three proposals enshrine different approaches to combating discrimination .
the first proposal prohibits discrimination in the field of employment based on racial or ethnic origin , religion or beliefs , disability , age or sexual orientation .
furthermore , the fight against discrimination on the grounds of disability is covered by the first proposal for a directive , which seeks to implement the principle of equal treatment in the field of employment and in carrying out professional activities .
it is true that article 13 covers practically all possible - at the moment at least - forms of discrimination .
the president-in-office of the council has mentioned three examples and i would like to refer to them specifically .
there are certain cases in article 13 which are susceptible to discrimination , such as the one we are dealing with today , the case of disabled people , which i believe have been implemented in an irregular way .
it is true that there are others which are still much less developed , such as discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation .
however , returning to disability , i believe that the european union requires more complete legislation which covers every possible type , including cases of double disability .
regardless of your real reason for asking a question of this nature , we must recognise that , in recent years , and particularly since the treaty of amsterdam , very specific measures have been adopted in the european union to ensure that these issues are addressed in a far more appropriate way , taking into consideration the interests of the various parts of society that are affected .
i should like to remind the house that the european council in lisbon highlighted the promotion of social inclusion and called on the commission , and the council , to take priority actions for specific target groups .
one of these groups is the disabled .
i feel that it is extremely important today for all forms of discrimination to be addressed and monitored at political level , either by establishing a specific monitoring centre or by using existing mechanisms , which are more appropriate for monitoring and managing the experience of individual countries .
as the author is not present , question no 17 lapses .
mr president , the european union has been closely following the situation in myanmar for several years .
more recently , at its meeting in april , the council adopted three additional sanctions against the burmese regime .
to this end , the european union plans to send a second eu troika mission to rangoon .
i am , of course , very happy that the new common position has been established by the council and that it has strengthened the position as compared with the past .
i have to say to the president-in-office that the net impact of the various measures the european union has imposed since 1996 has been very limited : the burmese have not entered into dialogue with aung san suu kyi and the democratic forces in burma remain as outside the whole process as ever .
if the us decides in favour of massachusetts , will the european union then reintroduce our opposition in the world trade organisation to these measures taken in massachusetts ?
i would remind you that in this area , my country spent years , sometimes in relative isolation from the rest of the community , trying to draw attention to the situation in indonesia , and the success of that pressure was only measurable against the internal reaction and above all against action by the people of east timor .
i would also like to say - and this is an important point that also concerns the overall framework of relations between the european union and countries in south-east asia , and acts as an element of cumulative pressure - that relations between the european union and asean have , since 1998 , been through a rather strained period , precisely because of the problems resulting from burma ' s membership of that organisation .
because of the common position on burma , it was impossible to invite the burmese delegation to the eu-asean ministerial meeting in berlin , which led to that meeting being cancelled .
as the author is not present , question no 19 lapses .
by that i mean that euro 11 is an informal setting , and ecofin is the formal setting .
in the debate in those countries which are not participating in the third phase of emu and which are not therefore becoming a part of the euro zone , the point has been made that ministers from these countries are losing influence , not only on issues directly affecting the euro , but also on other issues dealt with by ecofin .
in any event , i must tell you that until then , nothing within the european union prevents countries meeting in smaller groups than in the normal community context .
we are all aware , from newspapers or from conversations in corridors , that various countries in europe , particularly the nordic countries , regularly coordinate their positions in a framework that predates the community decision-making process .
this is purely and simply a coordination of joint positions , and it is perfectly natural that countries that joined the third phase of economic and monetary union and which are members of the single currency should need to find specific measures to express their action and that they should collectively bring these issues to ecofin .
i do not think , however , that the position of the other countries is any more restricted in ecofin than it was at the beginning .
this does not mean that the countries that are not members of euro 11 , but which are , of course , members of ecofin , cannot raise that issue under the ecofin council agenda .
i must say one more very simple thing , mrs sandbk .
thank you very much , mr seixas da costa .
since the time allocated to questions to the council has elapsed , questions nos 21 to 31 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , deregulation in the telecommunications sector has continued for a decade and it has been a great success .
in the past , people acquired a telephone in order to keep in touch with each other , but now they have become shareholders in a company , which could , for example , be acting as an intermediary in sexual services .
parliament notes that due to the variations in its implementations , the current regime has led to legal uncertainty in different member states .
the objective is to prevent social discrimination and to increase consumer confidence and social cohesion .
the constant increase in the demand for radio frequencies for new applications is such that we need to review the principles on which they are distributed and the policy which the european union needs to apply in this sector .
the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy , having expressed its satisfaction with the work of the european commission , has come to a number of conclusions and has formulated a number of principles .
in this respect , the committee on industry considers that spectrum policy cannot be solely market-driven , that the economic and social value of the radio spectrum should not be assessed on the basis of profit opportunity and that we need a balanced combination of commercial and social interests .
your rapporteur is in favour of an overall payment for each commercial service which uses the spectrum .
i therefore call upon the house to vote in favour of amendments nos 4 , 12 , 5 and 6 , so that our final resolution includes a clear position against auctions .
i want to focus on some of the key points highlighted in the report .
the first and most encouraging thing from our point of view is that we now see the wisdom of opening the telecommunications market .
there is a tremendous amount of detailed analysis in this report and it clearly shows the consumer benefits in price reductions , choice and increased services that have flowed from deregulation .
we welcome this report , which is really going to encourage market-opening to the benefit of consumers and the european economy .
this communication and the report on the communication are amongst parliament ' s reports on the telecommunications sector , and they are all very closely linked .
mr president , commissioner , previous speakers have mentioned the broad consensus that exists concerning the profits arising from the liberalisation of the telecommunications sector .
we are therefore still making quite large strides in this area .
mr president , commissioner , twenty years have passed since the philosopher and essayist , alvin toffler , identified the new information technologies as the third of humanity ' s great revolutions .
nevertheless , in europe , we once again failed to take much notice of our thinkers and , in the meantime , over the last decade , the united states has increased its gdp and income per capita to above european union levels , where , in the last year , these indicators represented barely 75 % of us levels .
we are now rapidly turning to the information society , information technology , the internet , the galileo network for monitoring and intercommunication by satellite , the liberalisation and convergence of telecommunications and technological advances in general .
furthermore , we ask that , as soon as possible , flat rates be established for access to the internet , to the network of networks , and we even argue that they should be free , since they should be offered , like health and education , as an essential public service to the citizens .
the results of the auctions in third generation mobile phone frequencies , the ' umts ' frequencies , that are currently taking place in several member states , demonstrate just how important frequencies are , particularly as far as the economy is concerned .
in addition , the operators are unable to offer their customers inexpensive mobile access to the internet .
what is more , some practices in the member states - either auctions or ' beauty contests ' that is - in respect of these billions , lead to distortion of competition in the internal market .
i have the following brief comments to make on the report itself : in my view , three priorities for revising radio spectrum policy have crystallised from the debate , which we also had in the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy .
secondly , the community must be allowed to express itself during negotiations within the cept , the european conference of postal and telecommunications administrations that is , in such a way that better account is taken of community interests where radio spectrum policy is concerned .
rapporteur , ladies and gentlemen , in 1993 the european union undertook to open up the telecommunications market .
since then , this decision has led to the adoption of a series of directives , and we have constantly been reminded that there is a political objective underlying these regulations , namely growth , employment , competitiveness and the provision of access to the information society for all citizens , with the necessary legal protection .
it is therefore imperative that we do not lose sight of the objective of providing a high-quality service for all citizens if we want to avoid creating a fresh division within our society .
moreover , today we are debating reducing the cost of internet access within the framework of local loop competition .
as the commission has stated , there has been a lot of progress in the past few years in the eu telecommunications sector , but there is still a lot to be learnt where the mobile phone market is concerned .
in future , it is incumbent on the commission to ensure more vigorously than ever that the ' roaming ' fees charged to users by operators are brought down in all eu countries to a sensible level based on actual costs .
mr president , commissioner liikanen , cher ami paasilinna , i am delighted to be discussing the important issue of the pleasure of auctions versus the frustration of taxation .
the commission will also use its powers in regard to competition to monitor carefully dominant positions .
we already have a policy of pushing for divestment of cable tv networks to ensure greater local competition and to stimulate investments and services , as parliament is calling for in these reports .
in addition , political support is required to facilitate the achievement of community objectives at international level .
we have the on-going radio conference in istanbul where issues like galileo or third generation spectrum will be discussed .
the competitiveness of european industry at global level must be developed in the interest of the european citizen .
at the same time , the commission would like to stress that it is urgent and not premature to have an appropriate framework at the community level to implement the spectrum policy options agreed in the spectrum policy group and to ensure that results of harmonisation mandates are implemented in the union .
as far as further actions are concerned , the commission will present by the end of june - after parliament ' s discussions and the votes on the radio reports - the appropriate framework for radio spectrum policy in the ec .
this will also take into account the results of the overall discussion which is now taking place in the 1999 review .
in those areas the commission will make proposals in the context of the new legislation on electronic communications which will be presented at the end of june .
at the same time , the commission also intends defining this balance between the markets and public policy in the context of the europe action plan , which should be presented next week .
thank you very much , commissioner liikanen .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
finally , space has always had a strategic importance , since whoever controls space also controls the earth .
space is the one sector in which international cooperation is particularly important .
in europe , the european space agency ( esa ) , an independent body comprising 14 european countries , 12 of which are members of the european union , has played a critical role in fostering cooperation in space exploration , space applications and the development of research in space .
the main political issue in the entire discussion concerned the development of a coherent approach to space and the promotion of collaboration between the european union and the esa on the basis of specific targets and within a clear framework .
the commission ' s working document being examined today comes as a response to the council ' s resolution of 22 june 1998 calling on the commission to take practical measures to promote cooperation between the european union and the esa .
from this point of view , the document is somewhat limited in scope , since an overall policy for space cannot restrict itself merely to practical applications .
it stresses the importance of international cooperation , the need for all member states to participate in space activities and the importance of collaboration with third countries , and points out that the esa has functioned efficiently and has played a leading role in space research and space applications in both europe and worldwide .
it is in favour of the further development of launching systems , the development of new telecommunications systems and further european participation in the alpha station programme and reiterates the european parliament ' s support for the development of the global satellite navigation system known as galileo .
it calls on the commission , in collaboration with the member states , to take all measures needed for effective use of space-based systems for monitoring the environment and for security , in order to protect citizens ' lives and natural resources , identify at an early stage , or even avert natural or man-made disasters and help combat fraud .
mr alyssandrakis , ladies and gentlemen , everyone is in favour of mankind ' s direct or indirect access to space for , in the first place , it is a dream , a fantastic adventure and a way of expanding our knowledge .
today , although the united states and russia still dominate this sector , the countries of europe play a major and increasingly significant role .
the european space agency has played a role which has been crucial for the cooperation between european countries in the field of the exploitation of space and research development .
we must also make up for the absence of a genuine european policy and a european strategy ensuring the effective use of space systems to monitor the environment and to provide security , protect natural resources , detect or forecast natural and man-made disasters and combat fraud .
a large chunk of the practical applications involving space is already controlled by the market , and i feel that this is dangerous .
the commission must put forward measures to control what are genuine abuses .
to sum up , the new approach to space policy must be based on a close partnership between the member states , the european union and the european space agency .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , commissioners , the european market for space applications is fragmented .
cooperation at community and international level in space activities is imperative .
my second point concerns the position of the european satellite industry .
if the european union does not want to miss the boat , the commission and member states need to promote the development of the industry .
satellite systems are the means to further develop information and communications technology .
my group is waiting with bated breath for the document the commission has promised on a european space satellite in which , needless to say , the input of the european space agency is vital .
thank you , mrs plooij-van gorsel .
as has already been said , there is no longer any competition between america and the soviet bloc , and yet , for all its scientists and technical expertise , europe is unable to launch itself into space and space research .
well , in the united states , a famous pensioner , the astronaut john glenn , went into space at the age of 69 .
i am already a politician : i could become an astronaut , the first pensioner astronaut of the european union .
on behalf of the commission , i can assure you that we welcome this parliamentary resolution , in that it stresses the importance of politically consolidating the commission ' s analysis regarding , amongst other things , the strategic and economic role of space and the need to reinforce european investments and the status of the european space industry and to develop new approaches to space policy .
as you are aware , on 2 december , the council of ministers for research adopted a resolution calling upon the commission to draw up a european space strategy together with the european space agency .
this strategy will have to be submitted to the council for evaluation before the end of the year .
the drawing up of a european space strategy is of universal relevance and it must serve as a basis for the decisions scheduled for the end of 2000 on the galileo programme , more explicitly , and for the debate already underway on security and the environment , which should lead to initiatives whose importance is noted in the motion for a parliamentary resolution .
i feel that the dialogue which we have embarked upon with the european space agency is fully in line with a wider-ranging communication which we are shortly to discuss in connection with another report , the dynamic of a european research area .
thank you very much , commissioner busquin .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
if the european union wants to invest in more competitiveness , and thus more employment , we will need an approach which is broader and more innovative than the one we have pursued so far .
only 10 % is spent on new innovative research .
injecting expertise into a product , seems to be much more successful in the united states than it is in europe .
a better link is required between the development of new technology and application in the market .
commissioner busquin has now indicated how a european research area could be brought about .
but i believe that in order to bring about a european research area , we will need more than measures in the sphere of infrastructure .
my final point concerns the lack of a community patent .
a patent application in europe is ten times more expensive than it is in the us and far more involved .
we need due and proper attention to mobility and all that goes with it , proper research careers throughout europe , the chance for people to gain employment in research and to move freely .
we have seen , in the case of the foreign language lecturers in italy , that 12 years have passed with immobility enshrined in european law because the right to free movement without regard to nationality has been denied and has not yet been effectively enforced by the commission .
all that is stated in paragraph 40 of the report .
clearly , the thrust of the commission ' s thinking that has gone into this report and indeed our response has focused on two aspects : competitiveness and coordination , because research capability combined with the ability to translate that research into products and services of real commercial value is going to be the key to the competitiveness of the european union and the enlarged union into this new century .
that , i think , is a factor of very great importance in trying to achieve this focus and this synthesis of ideas .
we occasionally have two-year periods which are sometimes called rest periods or reflection periods , whereas , in actual fact , you are not allowing us to relax , and rightly so , presenting us with a very timely communication on the european research and development area .
i would say that this contribution is all the more welcome in that it fertilises fallow land , namely the field of cooperation between the european community and the member states in the area of research .
this cooperation , which we could already describe as consolidated and which is laid down by articles 165 , 168 and 169 of the treaty has , up until now , only existed in theory .
i know that you already have the support of the european scientific community and that is extremely important .
now we must convert the test into proposals , but also into more radical changes .
mr president , commissioner , the communication under discussion forms an important introduction to closer cooperation in the field of research .
the statistics indicated in the communication regarding the poor level of investment by eu countries in research are cause for concern .
however , some member states have made considerable investments in research , and this appears to have paid dividends , particularly in the area of information technology .
the participation of women in scientific research within the eu continues to be too fragmented .
mr president , it is , of course , essential to develop a european research area , but this must not operate simply in areas neglected by the member states .
both fundamental and applied research must , above all , retain public support and a public dimension .
europe may be a significant driving force in this field .
there is here a potential which can only be realised fully at european level , in collaboration with universities , centres of excellence and the authorities .
in conclusion , i wish to thank our commissioner , mr philippe busquin , for undertaking , as soon as he arrived , this investigation into a european research area which we support .
he did not neglect the areas of schemes on behalf of young people and the participation of women in research and , in continuing liaison with the member states and with parliament , he is working towards developing a knowledge-based europe in the latest fields , without neglecting social and human aspects .
mr president , commissioner , considerable research is indeed essential to be able to make sense of the 27 recitals and 60 paragraphs of a report which has reached oversized proportions due to the studies of the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy and which contains absolutely everything , albeit in occasionally vague and often inexact terms .
let us begin , however , in a spirit of constructive criticism , by welcoming the fact that this contribution towards achieving better integration of the european scientific community seeks to safeguard the balance between fundamental and applied research in order to combat the brain drain , to prioritise the problem of unemployment among young researchers within a european policy which is aware of the reality of the situation , and to recognise the leading role played by businesses in research and development .
mrs plooij-van gorsel , the union for a europe of nations group is going to vote in favour of your report , but i would ask you , in practical terms , will it be effective enough for us to achieve our shared goal , which is high-level scientific knowledge generating improved performance in every field ?
the twenty-first century will be the century of knowledge and grey matter .
progress in communications effectively increases the rate of dissemination of knowledge , as the development of the internet demonstrates , and is a powerful factor in promoting economic growth .
the first is that european investment in research is at least as important as the european research area .
in the united states , there is rather less concern for semantics and more for practical action .
the second observation is that approximately two thirds of research is undertaken by private companies and that the european union must take this situation into consideration when focusing its resources .
this is all included in the commission communication and the report by our fellow member .
i thank the commissioner , whose timing is very good and so is his idea of launching this debate .
there is indeed a growing feeling of unease at the lack of coordination in european science and research .
frankly , the eu is not punching its weight in research , although some member states are very good .
i strongly support paragraphs 16 and 17 , which call for informing the european public about scientific achievements and looking at ethical questions .
i would like to congratulate the commissioner on his ambition , which is considerable .
and really , the absence of this is something we only have ourselves to blame for .
mr president , a competition-orientated research policy of the kind that we are pursuing today is the best type of social and employment policy of tomorrow .
i believe we should make sure that we impart this entrepreneurial spirit , the pleasure derived from innovation and research , to young people .
i believe that each individual has a great deal of knowledge to contribute , and that , ultimately , communication between specialists is the best method of conveying this knowledge .
we have said that at least 10 % of research expenditure must be for the benefit of small- and medium-sized enterprises .
i would therefore recommend involving the parliamentarians and ministers for research of these countries in the preparation for the sixth research framework programme as well .
the creation of a common research area in europe will , at last , make it possible to fully exploit networks of high quality centres and achieve that critical mass which is essential both for the progress of knowledge per se and to provide practical answers to the man in the street : answers which cover a range of issues , from the control of terrible illnesses such as aids or cancer to neurodegenerative diseases or injuries caused by environmental pollution and so forth .
the third amendment , which was also approved by our friend mr novelli - whom i would like to thank - will apply tax exemption and , thereby , at last make it possible to further increase the level of research carried out in all sectors .
we have to ascertain that not all research leads to more economic growth or more employment .
where research in support of policy is concerned , initiatives from the commission are therefore vital in order to prevent work from being duplicated , to avoid fragmentation and to ensure that the best measuring methods and the best techniques become the benchmark .
but in this type of work , no major spin-offs in the employment sphere can be expected outside the research centres .
research situated between applied and basic research now has a lower profile but remains significant .
most of the added value of the internal market approach in research will be acquired specifically through the more even distribution of the research and know-how which is funded by non-public resources .
increasing , for instance , the mobility of researchers according to need and enhancing the cooperation between the scientific communities of the eu and eastern europe will create a reliable and credible basis for research projects .
the eu must accept that one of the most important challenges for its training and research policy is to awaken women ' s interest in this sector .
mr president , mrs plooij-van gorsel , ladies and gentlemen , i am personally delighted to have this opportunity to express an opinion on the commissioner ' s communication and to be able to tell him that it is a document of extremely high quality which , as we have seen again this evening , has provided the basis for a relevant debate on revitalising research in europe .
in europe , however , as many people have said , the position of research looks worrying if one looks at the figures .
it is therefore necessary , as a matter of urgency , to adopt an overall strategy at european level in order to make up for lost time .
it must be noted , however , that new initiatives need to be adopted in order to decompartmentalise member states ' national systems which today represent nothing more than a duplication of efforts .
among the many measures which must be implemented , this evening i shall mention , in particular , the training and the mobility of researchers , to go back to a previous debate which involved the commissioner and researchers from my own region .
i therefore hope that , in june , our ministers will be able to approve the rapid establishment of a whole series of building sites in europe , on the basis of the commissioner ' s proposals .
in this respect i would like to offer some constructive criticism .
in europe there are no training programmes for researchers .
we must support the universities and researchers because , in europe , working in research means sacrifices and a career full of risks and very few rewards and , of course , no economic reward .
the first concerns the close relationship between research , economic growth and employment .
i subscribe to the view that we need to propose tax relief , harmonised at european level , as a guideline for the member states .
we should realise the extent to which the meeting of the heads of state and government in lisbon served to highlight - what i believe is very important - the key role of research policy , as we have again pointed out this evening , and to acknowledge the importance of this role in the advent of a knowledge-based economy and society .
we are at a juncture which gives us hope that greater and more crucial progress may be made in this area .
such excellence does exist in europe , in all the member states , but at an inadequate level of critical mass , and this is a situation which could be improved .
everyone accepts this , both the world of industry and the world of research , of course , in the same way as they accept multidisciplinarity , which is one of the results of scientific developments .
in order to create the necessary dynamic , it is therefore essential to develop the concept of benchmarking .
indeed , i should like to take this opportunity to thank parliament for having , with a view to the intergovernmental conference , insisted on initiating a discussion on a european legal body , since this is an essential condition for bringing about this community patent .
the joint research centre and its specialist role have been stressed , and the goal of 3 % of gdp is , i believe , an ambitious but necessary goal in all member states .
the first stage is clear .
the next stage , then , is the council of ministers responsible for research , which will take place on 15 june .
i think that the member states accept this methodology , with the establishment of a high level group of representatives .
initial results will be available by the end of the year .
the mobility of researchers presupposes the mobility of workers in general .
you are familiar with the very interesting report that this group produced , which triggered policy in each of the member states .
i hope that , together , we shall be able to open up the european research area that i believe in so strongly .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
europe has done this in the past and we must be able to continue to do this .
but before i talk about this pioneering role , i would like to say a few words about the assessment itself .
i am therefore delighted that you announced in the discussion on the fifth action programme that you would like to set up a kind of observatory where an effort will be made to collate all possible gender-related data .
firstly , if we grant development aid or if we have contacts with third countries , we should not just prescribe conditions with regard to the economic position of women .
i would emphasise that the cooperation between the two co-rapporteurs has been highly constructive and we have focused on the measures taken by the eu and its member states in this report .
i also see this report as an action plan for the eu delegation that is to take up an excellent negotiating position in new york , in june , and that is to strengthen women ' s rights , in close cooperation with the representatives of governmental and non-governmental organisations .
the treaty of amsterdam will help us there ; specifically articles 2 and 3 , in which equality is defined as a goal and task of the community , or article 141 , relating as it does to employment policy , where there is room for improvement .
the treaty must include a single , coherent legal basis for equality between men and women in all policy areas , and another directive on the implementation of the positive action measures in article 141 .
if the empowerment of women proves to play a major part in the fourth world conference on women , it will also take precedence where the development of the information society is concerned .
the social changes of recent years have affected women in a special way .
the increase in the elderly population has had a great effect on the lives of women who , in general , when they are no longer looking after their children , have to look after their parents .
despite considerable progress in terms of the situation of women , there are still considerable differences , especially discrimination at work and different wages for the same job .
the situation of women with family responsibilities , combined with the difficulties in the labour market , have led to a term which is explicit as well as unfair : the feminisation of poverty .
the information society requires increasing numbers of people with technological training , which women must get involved in , since this is an area for which they are particularly well-equipped .
if the number of women involved in decision making were to increase , it would become easier to resolve the problems facing them .
a lot of progress has been made , but there are still political and economic areas in which women are under-represented .
the treaty of amsterdam provides for the integration of the objectives of equality into community policies and , especially in article 141 , positive actions in the field of employment .
employment is usually also a solution to other problems of marginalisation , economic dependence , lack of personal freedom , etc .
first of all , the world ' s governments must adopt a concrete action plan and again undertake to fulfil the beijing objectives .
these three tools have so far been missing in implementing the beijing action platform .
mr president , we are going to new york first and foremost to discuss the position of women globally .
naturally , there is a need in the european union , too , to improve the position of women in all walks of life , but we are now talking more about a worldwide conference .
as all those present are well aware , this is not easy - we have a tremendous amount of work to do in this respect ourselves - but we can raise the issue that the role of women needs to be reassessed when it comes to questions of war and peace , for example .
we cannot accept what is happening to women in afghanistan and we must promote the human rights of women at the new york conference .
the 1995 action platform expressly mentions the freedom to take personal responsibility in questions affecting sexuality , as well as full respect for the individual ' s integrity and equality in relations between women and men and in issues affecting sexual relations and reproduction .
they are thereby sabotaging constructive dialogue between governments and voluntary organisations .
i would also urge the governments of the member states and the delegation from the european parliament which is to go to new york in a few weeks ' time to do all they can to bring about the final document from the beijing + 5 conference which is , in fact , threatened by these groups .
in our opinion , on this occasion , it might be appropriate for the union to adopt an initiative , a practical initiative which is a priority objective with set time frames .
this does not , of course , mean that we underestimate the progress achieved and the european union ' s contribution to the dynamic presence of women in all professional and scientific circles , the performance of women at all levels of education and their successes wherever equal opportunity policies and the principle of meritocracy are applied .
however , despite the undisputed progress being made , serious problems of inequality and discrimination persist and have serious repercussions on the functioning of democracy and the failure to make full use of the valuable human resource which women represent comes at a huge economic and social cost .
today we need to extend our action to eradicate discrimination on the labour market , involve women in social dialogue and deal with violence against women .
in short , we need to create a new institutional and social framework which reflects the changes which have taken place and which solves the problems and contradictions which arise from the new contract with the two sexes .
apart from the 28 specific recommendations , which are particularly helpful , both for beijing and the commission ' s fifth programme - and i should like to assure you that complete account will be taken of them - i must also highlight the fact that they are accompanied by a particularly interesting political analysis containing information and views which is an excellent tool and which i think the member states would be well advised to reproduce .
and , of course , afghanistan will have to be discussed and reported and voted on in new york because it is one of the worst disgraces of our century , one of the worst disgraces of mankind in the year 2000 .
we made commitments in 1995 ; these commitments have been honoured up to a point and we shall be analysing them in full at the beijing conference .
as far as the report is concerned , i should like to refer to three points which , according to the questionnaires sent in from the countries of europe , take priority there .
the second point concerns democracy and is linked to the information society , which is creating a new type of communication between citizens and politicians and opening up a new route , which you need to be aware of and for which you need the right vehicle .
these are issues which call , of course , for innovative solutions and new approaches and cannot simply be seen as the price paid for the new era .
how we organise ourselves at all levels and how our lobby operates at all levels are extremely important , because we want to prevent any review of the agenda or a return to the past , renew our commitments and create new momentum so that our commitments are implemented in the new era .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
just ten years ago , on 8 april 1990 , the first free , democratic elections were held in slovenia , a high point in the slovene spring .
and a free and democratic slovenia was born .
this event at the same time marked a return to the shared european values of peace and freedom , democracy and respect for human rights .
on 10 june 1996 , your country submitted its formal application for membership of the european union .
we are aware that over the last ten years , in your capacity as president of slovenia , you have played a key role in achieving positive development in your country .
my own firm conviction is that it should be founded , first and foremost , upon the experience we have brought with us and which has engendered the values that we have articulated as the quintessence of european democracy and declared as the principles binding together the very fabric of the new europe .
set in counterpart to this , yet an integral part of our experience , is the ultimate establishment of the rule of law and human rights , the freedom of individuals and nations , democracy as the criterion of political power , social justice and stability as the goals to which we must constantly aspire .
for the moment , the global community seems limited to markets , economies and information and communication technology .
yet the solid foundations of coexistence in the world demand globalised politics , which will be capable of establishing social coherence which will balance the effects of capital which has already been globalised .
it would be founded in part on the following elements : on the global spread of political and economic democracy , on binding standards of individual and collective human rights , on dialogue between different cultures , religions and civilisations , on opposition to nationalism and xenophobia , on a new balance between the economically developed and developing parts of the world , on the globalisation of learning , knowledge , research and information , on developing international and inter-regional cooperation , on constructing a social order based on the model of social justice and solidarity , on common security and defence and on the fight against organised crime .
a global policy of common responsibility requires not only that we prevent the actions of others that harm the community , but also , and most importantly , that we refrain from such actions .
the second europe is one of countries that are negotiating with the european union : countries , therefore , that are in the first or second-class waiting rooms for the european train .
the third europe is made up of the countries of eastern and south-eastern europe ( ukraine , croatia , bosnia-herzegovina , albania , macedonia and moldova ) , which have not yet reached the station , although they wish to do so .
there also exists a group of countries that , for the moment , do not wish to join the eu .
as it decides on the lasting foundations of peace and also , following the horrors of war in the balkans , on the future of kosovo and montenegro , european unity again faces a great test .
this unity will be all the more vital when serbia needs to be helped in the process of democratic change , when it will be faced with the truth and with its own responsibility .
there are ever increasing signs of the emergence of two classes in society .
the world is beginning to divide in a new way .
this does not simply involve the free flow of ideas , labour , goods and capital , but also values such as respect for diversity , tolerance , equality before the law of the ' citizens of europe ' , irrespective of their national , ethnic and cultural affiliation or outlook .
this will enable a high level of identification with the same values across europe , which , in turn , may represent the basic connective tissue of europe .
at the same time , it would mean that in no european country could those in power dare , in the name of sovereignty or the principle of non-interference in internal affairs , to systematically stifle or limit either individual or collective human rights .
the nato intervention in kosovo is perhaps the first step in this direction .
whether this marks the beginning of a new chapter in international relations and international law , only time will tell .
the real path of globalisation for europe is the enlargement of the european union to cover all european countries .
in any case , we should not forget that these countries , including slovenia , have shown that in a relatively short time they have been able to adopt the rules that have taken a relatively long time to become established in the eu and in the european west .
the great efforts invested in reforms may serve as a guarantee that eu enlargement will be beneficial , both for the current members and for those that wish to become members .
it would also indicate that europe is abandoning its influence and presence in the world .
the decision on enlargement carries with it entirely new risks ; and there must be a degree of understanding for the dilemma facing the eu .
the eu should not use the problems among the candidate countries as an excuse to delay its own reforms , while the candidate countries should not use the difficulties of eu internal reforms as an excuse for putting off the reforms they need for full membership .
at that time , i argued against the discriminatory treatment of slovenia , for the then italian government was preventing us , through its power of veto , from signing the association agreement , and was setting as a condition the resolving of what were for italy issues in dispute deriving from the border treaties between italy and the former yugoslavia .
in the then yugoslavia , slovenia did nothing that was not done in the spirit of the potsdam resolutions by the allies , with whom the slovenes fought together against fascism and nazism .
this time , slovenia does not wish to accept this kind of imposition of conditions , and expects understanding and sympathy from the european union .
i believe that individual bilateral issues should not , in any event , be allowed to become a reason for placing conditions on acceptance as a full member of the eu ; nor should they be allowed to gain the pragmatic support of eu members , for the sake of clear and open foundations in european integration and in its future .
our right to existence as a nation was taken away .
slovenia wishes to be a part of them , and is prepared to contribute what it can to the common life of european nations , but is not prepared to pay an inequitable price for it .
slovenia will be ready for accession by the end of 2002 , and believes that it will then be welcome in the club of eu member states .
we are also pleased that , in helsinki , the member states of the eu committed themselves to enlargement by the same date for those candidate countries best prepared .
this is not just the freedom and autonomy of the individual , but also the freedom of social groups to express ethnic , cultural , religious , political and spiritual affiliations and convictions .
this involves establishing the principle of ' unity in diversity ' .
thank you , mr president , for addressing us in forceful , committed and frank terms .
this was part of the ninth meeting of the presidents of the european parliament and the presidents of candidate countries , a tradition initiated several years ago by my predecessors , enrique baron crespo , klaus hansch and jose maria gil robles .
in the goals you mentioned , you spoke of wishing to enter a house that was solid , strong and united , and i think i am safe in saying that that is the wish of the majority in this house .
i have to confess that it is not very snappy , but it is more interesting than it seems because it does appear to respond to a very deep-seated feeling shared by many of the citizens of our countries .
once again , i think your views are in total accord with the objectives of the european parliament .
madam president , i requested the floor in order to express the profound dissatisfaction of a number of italian members - most probably all the italian members and , i imagine , the dissatisfaction of the majority or the whole of this parliament as well - at the statements made by president kucan yesterday .
in particular , we cannot allow the massacre and eviction of the italians to be described merely as a measure intended to combat collaboration with nazis and fascists , in the spirit of potsdam and yalta which divided europe and from which europe has had to regain its freedom and unity and is still in the process of doing so .
madam president , i wholeheartedly support mr buttiglione ' s speech and , on behalf of the forza italia delegation of which i am head in the european people ' s party , i cannot forget the suffering of the italian people in the former yugoslavia at the end and during the immediate aftermath of the second world war .
therefore , madam president , in addition to calling upon you to make authoritative representations to the slovenian government , i also invite all the members of parliament to sign the declaration calling for the institution of a day dedicated to the shoah , to the holocaust , to be observed throughout the european union .
thank you , mrs napoletano .
statements by the president i have two statements to make .
the quaestors acted quickly to resolve this situation in the best way possible .
madam president , it is totally unacceptable that a building that cost millions of pounds , and which was officially opened less than six months ago , has thousands of faults and is now found to be a potential threat to the people who work in it .
i trust that this problem will be raised in the negotiations for the final price of the building , which should strengthen parliament ' s hand in reducing the cost for the taxpayers of europe .
so that there is no room for error or misinterpretation , i would prefer to read you the letter . ' madam president , during its meeting of 16 may 2000 , the committee on legal affairs and the internal market re-examined the situation of mr le pen .
madam president , i am taking the floor to request that parliament express its opinion in accordance with rule 7 ( 4 ) of the rules of procedure .
go ahead , mr baron crespo .
madam president , rule 7 ( 4 ) of the rules of procedure lays down that the president may ask the competent committee for its opinion and that parliament may express its opinion on the basis of that proposal .
i would ask parliament to express its view , and i do so with all due respect for the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , which has held a full debate on this issue , because i believe that there are two basic elements here .
monday ' s letter from the chairperson of the legal affairs committee - which is the one i know , because i have just been made aware of it - cited article 12 ( 2 ) of the 1976 act concerning the election of representatives of the european parliament , which reads as follows : " where a seat falls vacant pursuant to national provisions in force in a member state , the latter shall inform the european parliament , which shall take note of the fact " .
madam president , we have all been deeply distressed by the illness of our colleague .
we have to recognise that , particularly when the weather gets as hot as it did this week , colleagues ' health is under a great deal of stress .
thank you , mrs banotti .
madam president , together with the other meps who were present during the moments after our colleague fell ill , i must say in all fairness that the time that passed between the incident occurring and the arrival of the doctor would be classed as admirable for any of the world ' s institutions .
madam president , i very much hope that mr staes will get well soon , but i believe that we should also remind and ask the media to inform our co-citizens that our life is not a bed of roses , and that coming and going like nomads is not the best thing for our health .
i will return to the issue we were discussing : my group ' s request for this house to express its opinion in accordance with the regulations .
i was reading article 12 ( 2 ) of the act of 1976 , which is the legal basis cited by the chairperson of the legal affairs committee in her letter of monday .
this paragraph says : " where a seat falls vacant pursuant to national provisions in force in a member state , the latter shall inform the european parliament , which shall take note of the fact " .
i believe that , in accordance with the treaties and our rules , parliament must take note of the decision of the french state .
in any event , i believe that this proposal should not be ratified by the european parliament , i am going to request that it be put to the vote and i would like to say that my group will vote against it .
madam president , i am speaking as coordinator for the socialist group in the european parliament ' s committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
madam president , firstly i would like to say that , in any event , we are all aware that we are facing a situation in which we have to find our way with few specific points of reference and therefore , we must resort to analogy , precedent , common sense and , in general terms , the general principles of the law .
this is because in our statutory law , in our rules of procedure , there is no explicit mention of how to proceed in a situation such as this .
as on other occasions , such as , for example , when the legal affairs committee examines whether or not to lodge an appeal in the court of justice , we are talking about a purely technical assessment by an internal body of parliament , which makes a recommendation to the president , the external body of parliament , who is expected to take the decision .
i do not personally share that view , and i believe that , according to the relevant law , there are reasons not to share it , because , in any event , we are talking about two sentences , both from french courts and both leading to ineligibility .
the sentence exists .
however , in my capacity as chairperson , i must point out that the two letters are complementary .
the second letter refers to what happened at the second meeting and all the members of the legal affairs committee know that that was how i presented it .
the vote had already taken place in the legal affairs committee .
madam president , i did inform you of what happened in that debate and why it did not continue , and it did not do so basically because there was insistence on the issue of the tapie case .
clearly , the legal affairs committee can vote on anything , but since it was not laid down and since it was dealing with such an important and serious issue which did not appear in the agenda , it did not seem to me to be reasonable to hold a vote if we were taking a route which all the speakers - and this is recorded in the minutes - for one reason or another , rejected .
i say this in order to refute these statements .
madam president , rule 7 ( 4 ) is being cited .
that paragraph - in the event that we had to resort to it , which i do not believe to be the case , and i will explain why - states that parliament may express its opinion on a proposal .
therefore , if the president wishes to take this route , a report by the legal affairs committee is absolutely essential and it would be irregular not to proceed in that way , ... ( noise ) ...
for parliament to express its opinion on an issue for which there is no written document or anything whatsoever , and which requires legal consideration at the highest level .
madam president , i believe that it falls to the president to take this decision , and you may consult the rules of procedure , which states that you must consult the legal affairs committee .
however , it was totally proper that we should hear the chairperson of the legal affairs committee which has carried out some extremely difficult and meticulous work on a very delicate issue .
i accept full responsibility in this matter .
once again , i thank the committee for the long hours which its chairperson and members have devoted to this matter .
this , effectively , is what our rules of procedure say .
this is my proposal .
the person in question holds political views most of which i find loathsome .
we will defend these rights with equal vigour , because they are our common rights .
we do not , however , want this issue to be used against us for political purposes .
on whether the mandate of mr le pen should be terminated , the majority of the french delegation in our group will vote in favour of this termination .
mrs hautala , we must be very clear on this .
the house wants parliament to adopt a position at midday on the opinion of the legal affairs committee and it is understood that at that point we will see ... ( mixed reactions ) but the letter will be provided to you .
the house should realise , from the fact that this matter has occupied our committee for a period of three very long and exhaustive meetings , that it was felt to be a very complex and difficult issue to deal with .
the rule talks about parliament having a right to give a view on a proposal , but it seems that you have merely an opinion , not a proposal .
if we were to take a view as a full parliament , then we should have something more in front of us and a great deal more time and careful consideration before we enter into such a hasty vote on an issue such as this .
madam president , i wish to raise a procedural motion .
the position of the legal affairs committee was simple .
we cannot properly discuss and vote at midday on such a politically complex issue when this complexity is based on an internal contradiction between texts in french criminal law , which is not easily accessible to the members of this house , including the french members .
if you decide that a vote must be held in this parliament , this cannot occur without a committee report .
it appears that the council of state ' s decision on the stay of execution will be taken imminently " .
if parliament , therefore , wants a genuine proposal , we will ask the legal affairs committee to draw up this proposal on which we can calmly vote , not at midday , but a little later perhaps .
either this is a legal proposal from the committee and we can vote on this basis or this is not a legal proposal , in which case you are asking for one to be drawn up .
if you want a vote as an indication of our position , that is entirely up to you , but it would be wise to reject this as i believe there is a contradiction .
in our opinion - and on this point , mr wurtz , i cannot agree with you - the french state , the italian state and the german state are sovereign .
the european parliament is also sovereign and can adopt a position contrary to a state decision .
madam president , the first thing i wish to say is that i think it would be unworthy of the european parliament to be at loggerheads over this issue .
i have in mind the difference between article 12 of the act on the election of members by direct universal suffrage and rule 7 ( 4 ) of our rules of procedure .
especially given that we only voted on her report this week in the parliamentary committee , we have since had very little time to work on amendments for the plenary .
but to make matters worse , i have to say that , in this case , rule 115 applies , which states that , except in the cases of urgency referred to in rules 50 and 112 , a debate and vote shall not be opened on a text unless it was distributed at least 24 hours previously .
i suggest postponing the debate and vote on this extremely important report to the next part-session .
i wish to make three brief points .
i myself was absent , but i have had this confirmed to me .
there is one point that , to many of us , is the issue of substance in this report .
of all the areas of political sensitivity in contemporary europe , that dealing with racism and xenophobia should be given the highest priority in this house .
i appeal to the house to make creative use of the possibility open to us , in setting our agenda , to recognise this substantive political requirement and to facilitate a debate at 3 p.m .
however , i am in favour of the compromise of starting this debate at 3.00 p.m. , and i also hope that we will be able to finish it this afternoon .
i would like to point out once more that it is indeed extremely important to finish it during this sitting because , otherwise , we will lose all authority which we can still exercise in the social affairs council , to be held on 5 and 6 june and , in that way , the report ' s significance will be seriously undermined .
opinions may be divided about austria , but when it comes to making it clear what our position is on racism in europe , we should not get bogged down in a formal debate as we did just now , we should make it plain that we are clear-thinking people .
the debate on this dossier in the committee i have the honour to chair has been an excellent example of cooperation between different committees in parliament and indeed of cooperation between parliament , the commission and the council presidency .
when it was voted in committee on monday night , the text and all 200 amendments were available in all languages .
the fact is that the debate on this directive has been exemplary - it has been a credit to this parliament and any attempt to delay that debate or to delay a vote would be a sordid political move for reasons of party political advantage . ( applause ) madam president , on behalf of my group , i would like to insist on rule 115 and it is essential that it is checked how and when the translations were provided .
that is another issue .
mr oostlander , this situation clearly comes under rule 115 and mr cox ' s proposal takes account of this rule .
madam president , the proposal which i have made and i shall repeat is that we should consider holding the debate at 15.00 hrs followed by the urgency debate , followed by votes on the report , other reports that are completed in debate and urgencies this afternoon .
i have a right to know .
mr posselt , considering the time necessary for the debate on mrs buitenweg ' s report , the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance will take place at approximately 4.30 p.m .
this report is also a reaction to the excellent communication by the committee on new measures to fight trafficking in women .
the report primarily aims to fight trafficking in women , but also in children and men , that is to say in people in general .
in a report by the united nations , it is stressed that trafficking in people is one of the fastest growing forms of organised crime .
the huge profits and relative safety for the perpetrators who generate this type of crime will undoubtedly have something to do with this .
priority must also be given to the fight against organised networks which are not only involved in trafficking in people but which are also involved in all kinds of other criminal activity , such as the trade in narcotics , arms and such like .
various initiatives have already been taken at european level .
however , the harmonisation of the different national legislations in this field and the ensuing discrepancies in methods of investigation and prosecution have to be tackled at european level as a matter of priority .
from a survey organised in connection with this report , it is quite clear that there are considerable discrepancies in this sphere between the member states and between one candidate country and another .
it is encouraging that , in the first half of this year , the commission wishes to submit detailed proposals for harmonising criminal legislation in the member states on trafficking in people with a view to their sexual exploitation and , specifically , proposals for granting temporary residence permits to victims who are prepared to cooperate in the investigations which are necessary if legal action is to be taken against the traffickers .
scanning the amendments , i have the impression that some people want to hijack this report , which is about victims of trafficking in people , to start a debate on prostitution .
in the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities , a clear decision was made to discuss trafficking in women , or forced prostitution , within the framework of this report .
as i said , trafficking in people is not just about the problem of demand for prostitution .
victims of trafficking in women also find it extremely difficult to re-integrate into their place of origin and even within their own families .
by holding this debate today in the european parliament , we are helping the victims to regain their dignity and integrity .
this is why , in our opinion , we cannot use the term ' forced prostitution ' in this report .
trafficking in women involves terrible sexual exploitation .
we must help these victims to speak out and denounce their living conditions .
when they resist the pressure of traffickers and pimps , they are threatened either personally or through their families .
the traffickers belong to a mafia-like criminal organisation and control several links in the network that has power over the victim .
not only do women from asian countries fall victim , but also more and more women from central and eastern european countries , including women from candidate countries .
in any event , we should recognise that the european commission ' s proposals are , on the whole , reasonable and hopefully useful .
nevertheless , and given the cross-border nature of this crime , we need to harmonise its classification in all the member states , including cross-border aspects and universal jurisdiction .
furthermore , the extremely harsh conditions in which the victims live more than justify the member states granting them permanent residence permits for humanitarian reasons .
if we really want to help the victims , we must guarantee their safety as well as that of their families and compensate them through the seizure of the networks ' assets .
all of these considerations have been approved practically unanimously by the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities , but they will not be enough .
combating the trafficking in women and immigration policy must become a priority within the political agenda of the european union and the member states .
until we find overall solutions to the question of development , the number of people searching for a better life will be unstoppable and migratory pressure uncontainable .
at the same time , legislation as well as cooperation are inadequate .
the first concerns automatic refugee status for victims of trafficking in women .
what is required here is tantamount to surrendering an important and fundamental part of legal protection , namely the fact that one is considered innocent until proven guilty .
finally , the discussion on trafficking in women and people is important and a matter of urgency .
this is why it would be wrong to weigh down this discussion with moral judgements on prostitution , as certain people here are attempting to do .
in these discussions several rather abolitionist associations have tried to lump together trafficking in women , prostitution and pimping .
whether legislation is abolitionist as in france , prohibitionist as in sweden or even sometimes regulatory , if it fails to recognise a whole population this can only reinforce discrimination against forced immigrants and also prostitutes , irrespective of whether they are immigrants or not .
mrs roure is right in her analysis of this problem but we accept that different solutions must be examined and that various proposals must be made and considered .
the commission absolutely must examine all forms of common legislation on prostitution which would give real status to prostitutes in order to protect these women and men from pimping , violence and marginalisation .
the first concerns the role of the sex industry in this issue .
that is very strange , especially when we are talking about slavery and trafficking in women .
during a conference organised jointly by the united states of america and the philippines in march , the very lucrative aspect of this new market was also raised .
trafficking in human beings is , after drugs and weapons , the third largest source of income for organised crime .
yet trafficking in human beings is , above all , a violation of human dignity and human rights .
so much the better , for the resignation shown towards what society has deemed to be irreversible is intolerable .
we must now help these people whose bodies are being exploited for commercial purposes , both in our countries and in their countries of origin , by increasing aid for development , education and cooperation between countries .
trafficking in human beings is incredibly widespread in our countries because the demand exists and because the european union is adept at showing itself to be a greedy customer , disdainful of the distress caused to these adults and children who have been denied any choice .
to conclude , i will refer to the slogan of the seminar organised in paris on 15 may under the patronage of the european parliament which says that the humiliation of human beings through prostitution represents an intolerable attack on human rights .
mr president , on behalf of the members of the bonino list , i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report on the tragic issue of trafficking in women .
the report recommends possible solutions which have already been successfully implemented , such as issuing victims with residence permits and providing protection and free healthcare .
given the current state of legislation , we are faced with a wide diversity of penal traditions in our member states .
instead , we must take inspiration from the method in the schmid report on combating fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment .
to conclude , i am sure that this would render the action we are taking to combat this scourge more effective and that we would avoid the pitfalls of a harmonisation which would delay the measures which must now be adopted .
on the other hand , the british delegation , which is now 36 members , has retabled the resolution in its original form .
the debate will take place as proposed .
mr president , the resolution by the green group was tabled first .
i say this in relation to the provan report and the reform of the voting system in parliament .
mr president , i have an interest in a sector affected by the commission communication which is the subject of this report .
as a result , i will not take part in any vote on this report .
i do not want to have a debate on this .
mr baron crespo , is this a formal request on behalf of the socialist group ?
i would like to thank everyone for their comments but i agree most with the comment made by mr hansch .
the bureau is looking at the working methods of parliament .
whereas , perhaps owing to my curious accent , it was transcribed as " biannual " , which would require two reports a year and would be over-egging the pudding !
i accept that it is unsatisfactory that groups can withdraw their requests at any stage .
there must be a chance to do this if another group withdraws its request .
as normal after the votes , we will continue with the debates and the first two are sorensen and karamanou .
that is correct and that is what the house has agreed to , so that is what we will be doing .
mr president , i rise on a similar point , because i am not clear what the house has agreed to .
we have agreed to vote at 6 p.m .
what we could do is reduce the amount of speaking time for urgencies so there will be an opportunity for a debate on each of them .
mr ford , that is not a matter for the president .
what we have decided is to allocate the first hour of what normally would have been the urgency debate to the buitenweg report .
it is then up to the groups to decide how they allocate speaking time for the urgency debates .
it will depend on how the groups allocate speaking time between the different subjects and that is a matter for the groups , not for the president .
it was not agreed we would reduce the time of that debate , let us be clear on that .
i said an hour .
explanations of vote - ferber report ( a5-0121 / 2000 ) mr president , i was unable to assent to the ferber report .
but the european union will not become more democratic if the european parliament receives more funding .
the money that is available should be spent on the needs of our 375 million people and on the protection of our environment , not on the european parliament as an institution .
i am of the opinion that we could save ourselves a great deal of cost and unnecessary effort if we were to replace the system of reports and rapporteurs by getting the groups to react directly to the planned proposals , as is the case in most national parliaments .
mr president , i was happy to vote for the ferber report on the budget for the financial year 2001 , but i am not very happy with the minimal amount of space , money and european union funds it allocates to supporting activities benefiting pensioners and the elderly .
the amount proposed corresponds to 20 % of the appropriations for heading five and therefore respects the ceiling which the european parliament itself set for 2001 .
however , in view of the need to deal with the consequences , including linguistic ones , of future enlargements , this limited increase in the budget of our institution more than ever requires rational and responsible management of this budget .
in this way , respect for the identities , nations and cultures of europe and cost-effectiveness in the daily work of the european institutions could be combined .
this solution would also offer the undeniable advantage of benefiting all the european candidate countries whose first foreign language is french , german or english .
indeed , the european parliament has no need at all for the building in which we are meeting this week !
this was agreed by the heads of state and government at their summit in edinburgh years ago .
the idea is to keep at most the specialist services such as the printing and translating services in luxembourg .
mr president , as the rapporteur rightly mentions in the second point in his report , budget consolidation must be given the highest priority at present .
the rapporteur was unable to include the stability programme which has now been presented by the austrian government in his report .
as far as we are concerned , we were not elected to congratulate governments which help employers and major financial groups to get rich by exacerbating inequalities , leaving 18 million men and women unemployed , making flexibility and precariousness widespread and drastically reducing the wage bill in order to ensure continued growth in capital income , including in its most parasitic and speculative forms .
like mr katiforis , i am delighted to see renewed growth in europe .
however , also like the rapporteur , i know that this will not be enough to enable a return to a situation of full employment without the member states adopting a proactive policy and , i would add , without a reduction in working hours .
this means that despite referring to the need for active employment policies to combat unemployment and to achieve full employment in the medium term , the commission continues to prescribe the same solutions , which have not brought any net improvement in employment , since the current unemployment rate is even higher than it was at the start of the decade , as the commission recognises .
in this european parliament report , the rapporteur makes some criticisms of the acceleration of the convergence and stability criteria objectives , insists on the need to increase investment and accepts the adoption of global fiscal measures in order to combat financial speculation .
the broad guidelines of european economic policy developed in this report seem to be heading in the right direction .
full employment and the transition to a knowledge-based economy form our common aim for the first decade of the 21st century .
on the contrary , current job creations are due to an economic context characterised by an increase in consumption among wage-earners and a weak euro favouring exports .
two points have particularly shaken us .
however , the rapporteur goes even further in supporting the commission ' s recommendations .
we have accordingly voted against the report .
goebbels report ( a5-0135 / 2000 ) mr president , i have already declared , during the debate on the decision to allow greece to enter the european single currency , that i am totally in favour of greece ' s immediate entry , for it has met all the criteria required by the treaties of the european union .
from a technical point of view , greece has undisputedly managed to fulfil the criteria set in the maastricht treaty for entering the third stage of emu .
many meps have expressed doubts about , in particular , the sustainability of the convergence and stability policy of the member states .
we have all been able to see how the pleas addressed to greece to make further efforts to reduce its debt and to obtain lasting stability do not only pertain to the situation of greece itself , but also to the discontent about the way in which other member states with a very high debt ratio have behaved , not making sufficient use of the options available to them , as a result of economic growth and low interest rates , to reduce the debt .
greece is welcome in euroland , and all member states in the euro zone must respect the letter and spirit of the stability and growth pact .
sellafield resolutions mr president , the vote on sellafield was a first for the european parliament .
i think it is the first time that the european parliament has spoken in favour of uniform safety standards for nuclear power stations .
randzio-plath report ( a5-0109 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the randzio-plath report on the distortion of competition where public undertakings are concerned .
however , it is only interested in transparency with regard to public undertakings and only in terms of finding out whether state aid distorts competition between public and private undertakings .
we will vote against this draft directive and reaffirm that , in the interests of society , we must have total transparency in the operation and accounts of all undertakings , both public and private , and the abolition of secrecy in business .
by taking as its basic philosophy the need to ensure competition between the public and private sectors , the commission has , in fact , ended up undervaluing the important role of public enterprises which provide public services , and this is unacceptable .
the 50 poorest countries spend twice as much servicing their debt as they receive in aid .
the unctad report on sub-saharan africa shows that african countries have not received any benefit from structural adjustment programmes for over ten years .
therefore , the european union should promote an international , bilateral and multilateral action cancelling the third world debt with no conditions attached .
the mugabe regime is authoritarian and corrupt .
we have therefore not only voted against this motion but must also denounce the cynicism and hypocrisy of those who defend the interests of the privileged whites in zimbabwe .
paasilinna report ( a5-0094 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the paasilinna report on the telecommunications regulatory package but i found it unsatisfactory as well .
behind the regulations was a political objective of ensuring growth , employment and competitiveness and of giving everyone access to the information society while ensuring adequate legal protection .
the commission has played a supervisory role in this which has resulted in a series of reports since may 1997 .
the commission communication before us today is part of this process and the assessment presented is balanced to say the least .
approximately two years after full liberalisation , the telecommunication services markets in the member states are characterised by a rising growth rate , many new arrivals and falling charges .
the exclusion of some citizens from the new information technology society cannot be tolerated .
the preservation of universal service must therefore ensure the inclusive nature of this society .
due to a desire to see the cost of access to the internet lowered and for this to be accessible to all citizens , parliament insists in its report on the need to open up competition in the local loop .
to conclude , i would say that the telecommunications liberalisation process is not an end in itself but a step towards ensuring the transition to the information society .
portugal telecom , a public enterprise which has received billions of escudos of public investment , has been partially privatised , which has led to an increase in charges to what are called ' residential users ' - the majority of the population - who today face the ' highest charges in europe ' .
in this context , the report illuminates a number of important aspects .
what the report does not discuss , and what the commission ' s report does not take account of , either , are the different conditions prevailing in the eu ' s member states when it comes to developing and maintaining different types of network .
alyssandrakis report ( a5-0122 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for this report , which is the first alyssandrakis report on radio frequencies , which are nowadays used chiefly to advance mobile phone communications technology .
i am not referring to pensioners and the elderly in general , but , in this case , i am referring to my mother .
alyssandrakis report ( a5-0119 / 2000 ) mr president , in relation to the second alyssandrakis report , i must mention my daughter .
the present system for filing patent applications obliges the applicant to file a patent application separately in each member state , which inevitably results in an undesirable fragmentation of the european market .
any research policy based on this sort of perception and which serves this sort of policy is bound to distort the nature of research as a procedure for producing new knowledge and as a productive power .
according to the commission communication , the gap between total public and private expenditure on research in the usa and in the eu is continuing to widen , having grown from eur 12 billion in 1992 to some eur 60 billion in 1998 .
similarly , in terms of employment , there are just 2.5 researchers for every thousand workers in european companies , compared with 6.7 per thousand in the usa and 6 per thousand in japan .
yet we know that research and technology contribute between 25 % and 50 % to economic growth and play an important part in the competitiveness , employment and quality of life of europe ' s citizens .
this being the case , how can the heads of government of the 15 member states of the european union pledge to achieve a new strategic objective for the next decade , that is to make the european union the most dynamic and competitive knowledge based economy in the world , capable of sustainable economic growth , with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion , unless they significantly change their research policy , and particularly the budgets earmarked for this ?
smet / groner report ( a5-0125 / 2000 ) the recognition of women ' s rights as an integral and indivisible component of universal human rights requires the adoption of accompanying measures which will allow this recognition to be transposed into concrete actions .
of particular importance is the request for specific preventive measures and measures to promote women ' s health and guarantee their right to genetic health , as long as this right is not understood to mean the right to abortion but rather the right to the protection of the health of the expectant mother and the unborn child .
with regard to the promotion of equal opportunities in the context of policies on cooperation with development , i would like to point out that , in my view , efforts in this area should concentrate especially on guaranteeing girls ' access to primary education , which means at the same time ensuring that it is free .
it is also of fundamental importance for the council , the commission and the member states to do everything possible to combat violence against women , especially in the home , at the workplace , in society in general and in armed conflicts .
the un already intends to rule the world by imposing a uniform vision , based on the western model , on all the regions of the planet , regardless of their existing cultures and laws .
while they have succeeded in their aim of weakening still further the demography of western countries , they have not responded in a logical way to the more urgent question of protecting those women who are really in difficulty .
we are opposed to discrimination , we do believe in equality of treatment between men and women .
on the issue of making contraceptives more widely available we voted against the amendment because we believe these are issues of personal morality and conscience and not an issue where the european union should be making a political stand .
regarding paragraph 26 , which states that " the respect of women 's rights should be one of the main conditions for the granting of aid and should be closely monitored in all external relations and cooperation " , the european union must not tie any specifications to its distribution of aid nor impose any conditions for the reception of aid amongst women , realising that women are extremely vulnerable to the use of coercion and coercive techniques in order to realise their basic human rights such as shelter , nutrition , education and basic health care .
however , we believe that , in the context of this debate , the absolute priority must be to provide education .
we also cannot accept the individualisation of human rights to be found in this report .
finally , over one thousand women ' s associations in 140 countries are this year organising a world march to fight against continuing violence and to fight for equality .
we have therefore voted in favour of this report despite its limitations and we will demonstrate in paris on 17 june together with all those who are fighting for equality and women ' s rights .
mr president , it was fifty years ago last week that robert schuman , with his speech , laid the foundation for the ecsc .
i have understood that some people in the council are in favour of excluding asylum and migration policy , as well as the issuing of visas , from this ban on discrimination .
a much-debated topic in this parliament is the burden of proof .
maybe those opposing this procedure could explain to me sometime during this debate why we nonetheless have to review it and , more specifically , why there is less protection against racial discrimination than against sex discrimination .
i hope therefore that the house , in its wisdom , will decide tomorrow to adhere as far as possible to the commission ' s original text .
unfortunately , statutory measures against racism are necessary .
they provide victims with protection and a right to redress .
on behalf of my colleague mogens camre , i wish to categorically repudiate this categorisation and in particular the misleading nature of the text , given that the report refers to a leader of a neo-nazi party in denmark , which has nothing to do with the danish people ' s party .
president , as co-rapporteur for this , europe ' s first ever race directive , i and my party are proud to contribute to legislation which establishes common standards of protection for the victims of racial discrimination throughout our continent .
this will send a clear signal to the racist extreme right that they have no part in modern europe and it closes the chapter of racism , anti-semitism and xenophobia which tragically blighted our history in the century just past .
the 24-year old black care worker set on fire in a racist attack in britain , the 5 neo-nazis convicted of beating two vietnamese people in germany , the french authorities cited by amnesty international for torture of a moroccan-dutch national , all of which took place in europe this very week are simply the most visible examples of racial discrimination which is the daily experience of black and ethnic minority europeans in our businesses , communities and on our streets .
the commission for racial equality from the uk is just one example in europe and i am pleased that some of the best lessons of the uk ' s race relations act alongside best practice from other member states are being translated into european law today .
let me turn to the specific improvements we propose and which we expect to be accepted : that incitement or pressure to discriminate is banned just as much as the discrimination itself ; that groups as well as individuals will be able to bring cases including a legal status for voluntary organisations to engage in civil dialogue , a partnership to implement the directive for the first time ; that the scope of the new law is clearly applied to all public authorities ; that conciliation is offered to resolve disputes without prejudice to the right of access to the courts ; and that the effectiveness of the new law is tested one to two years , not five , following its implementation .
finally , i offer my sincere congratulations to kathalijne buitenweg for her work and i thank her for her cooperation in bringing this before parliament .
national groups such as the uk race and europe network in my country , the european network against racism and , in particular , the starting line group have worked for 20 years to get this legislation and for them today is still simply the beginning .
mr president , i want to add my voice to those members calling for the swift passage of this legislation through parliament .
since the 1980s we have led on action and on initiatives to combat racism , xenophobia and discrimination .
groups and anti-racist organisations in my region , in the north-west of england , are eagerly awaiting this legislation .
so vicious was this attack that merseyside police called for an urgent press conference .
this is why it is vital that europe gives a strong public statement on racism and discrimination backed up by legislative action to ban this and to extend the scope of legal redress by shifting the burden of proof from the victim to the racist and allied groups and organisations to bring race discrimination cases to courts across the eu .
in voting through this report and its recommendations , this parliament can give a strong signal that it is prepared to be tough on racism and tough on the causes and perpetrators of racism .
those parties which seek to legitimise and promote racism and discrimination through the ballot box , and we have examples in many countries , should take note of this directive and incorporate the recommendations and its legal force in their own constitutions .
firstly , i want to congratulate the commission on this text .
it is a good text .
two things i would like to highlight : amendment no 29 , which tries to make sure that there is no hiding place for racism , no hiding place behind considerations of religion , considerations of belief and considerations of nationality .
i hope the commission will make sure in the action programme , proposed to accompany this package , that we have a lot of projects from the applicant states .
it is very important that we get it through today .
i hope that at the end of the afternoon we will have no more shenanigans , no more delays and we will make sure we get the vote at 6 p.m .
some 15 or 20 years ago in the netherlands , i worked together with a christian-democrat member of government , mrs jeltien kraaieveld , who was also involved in this anti-discrimination legislation in the field of discrimination based on sex .
on behalf of part of my group , i also find it extremely important that elections of employees representatives are clearly provided for .
naturally , these too should be held free from discrimination based on race or ethnic origin .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i am a member of the group which has joined forces with the two rapporteurs , mrs kathalijne buitenweg and mr richard howitt , with a great deal of conviction in order to enable parliament to deliver the parliamentary opinion on this commission proposal this week , and i would like to thank the rapporteurs very explicitly and with all my heart for the extremely constructive spirit in which we have been able to work .
the social democrats in parliament have fought doggedly to keep this item on the agenda and i am pleased that we managed to achieve this thanks to a sound proposal for compromise from the liberals .
with all due sympathy and respect for the work which mr arie oostlander and a number of delegates in the ppe-de group have put into this in order to win that group over too , i have to say that the continuous attempts at sabotage and procedural games which we have experienced here this week are , as far as i am concerned , proof that a hard core of conservative ppe-de members want nothing more than to undermine this report and the directive .
we all know that the portuguese presidency is determined to bring this debate in the council to a successful conclusion .
the majority of meps know very well why this directive is important .
by implementing the treaty ' s non-discrimination principle swiftly and forcefully , europe wants to give out an unambiguous message to the citizens in our own countries and those in the candidate countries .
this is to prove that europe is serious about the fight for equal opportunities , irrespective of people ' s race or ethnic origin and also because it is a well-known fact that discrimination is still rife in our countries , and that there is still racism and extreme nationalism which , in fact , is more prominent than before because racist political parties are cashing in on the ' own nation first ' ideas .
secondly , in our opinion , the strength of this directive will stand or fall with its enforceability , the extent to which it monitors discrimination , the efficiency of the measures taken against discrimination and , as such , the importance we attach to the possibility of organising collective actions to tie sanctions in with the directive .
i am convinced that the centre for equal opportunities in my own country will be encouraged in its activities by this directive .
it is also timely for europe to legislate now with the alarming rise in the far right and racist violence .
thirdly , the inclusion via amendments nos 15 and 29 of disguised race discrimination .
my group is not favourable to the inclusion of religion or belief in the scope of this directive because that needs much more thought .
however , we believe unequal treatment should be caught if it only pretends to be based on religion or nationality but is , in fact , race discrimination pure and simple .
fourthly , the inclusion , as has already been mentioned , of incitement or pressure to discriminate - that is very important .
sixthly , although my group understands the thinking behind amendment no 38 , the fact that it includes private clubs or associations is rather problematical .
to give you an example : i represent london and it could mean a problem for caribbean people getting together to reminisce about life in the caribbean in the 1950s if some white people were excluded .
i think that amendment no 38 is not well drafted .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , three years after the treaty of amsterdam was adopted and the famous and much-debated article 13 was introduced , the council is proposing two directives to implement the principles of this treaty .
the definition of a minimum european framework for the fight against discrimination is therefore urgently required .
singling out one type of discrimination gives the impression that some types of discrimination are less reprehensible than others .
the council must therefore make haste and propose a draft directive encompassing all types of discrimination .
the second problem concerns the exclusion of religious discrimination from this directive .
discrimination against north african communities in europe is also two-sided .
it may even often be said that the fear of islam acts as a catalyst for racism towards these communities .
to conclude , it is essential that the council adopts an integrated approach towards the legal tools to be established in order to apply article 13 in our daily life .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it would have been a good thing if the european parliament had made a positive , informative and decisive contribution to the proposal for a council directive , in line with the impetus given by the portuguese presidency .
if there is discrimination between a black person and a white person , or vice versa , for example if someone discriminates against a white portuguese in favour of a black portuguese , or against a black portuguese in favour of a white portuguese , this is clearly unlawful racism and should result in prosecution .
the problem is that in many of the amendments these two concepts are confused , with potentially disastrous effects , particularly in areas such as public service , and even in other , unexpected areas .
with each passing day , europe is becoming a continent which , as the united nations ' reports on the european population trend illustrate , is host to citizens of third states but which , above all , needs their contribution , their culture , their potential and their initiatives .
in a context such as this , the union must reaffirm the fundamental principles of democracy and ensure that all citizens and residents have the same rights and the same duties .
this is because , in general terms , we do not have confidence in institutions which , in violation of the democratic principle of the separation of powers , interfere with other institutions , with the result that they either upset the balance between the legislative , executive and judicial authorities or they find themselves without a specific function because everything is already being done by other institutions .
with these reservations , the members of the bonino list will support the report and the directive , in the hope that the european parliament and the commission will reflect upon the points we have raised and make the appropriate amendments .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , dismayed as i am about the way the 14 member states have prejudged austria , i particularly welcome the commission proposal .
it goes without saying that the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin should be applied .
however , it is possible to overshoot the mark , even in the case of such an uncontroversial issue .
the reversal of the burden of proof proposed by the commission would mean imposing an intolerable burden on small- and medium-sized enterprises in particular , as they would in future have to keep a record of every job interview , so that in serious cases they would be able to provide proof .
arrangements like this do not result in greater understanding for the victims of discrimination .
social groups , political parties , parliaments , meps and international conferences have proposed and have insisted that we legislate against the huge issue of racism and the conduct of organised society .
the second reason is that , because of the current political climate , because of the political problems which have arisen within the union over recent months in connection with racist clashes at political and social level , today ' s piece of work is the first to go beyond words , to go beyond resolutions and general political expression to specific policy making .
the european commission has worked quickly following the presentation of your committee ' s report , with the collaboration of all the services involved , and i am pleased to say that over half the amendments have been accepted either in spirit or in part .
i must stress that the amendments which have not been accepted have mainly been rejected for administrative or legal reasons or because we know from our experience and from our collaboration over the years that the council is sure to reject them .
i am pleased to say that we agree with the amendments to incorporate the sexual dimension ( amendments nos 7 and 59 ) , the amendments to the material and personal scope ( amendments nos 5 , 30 , 31 , 34 , 36 and 37 ) and the amendment on taking positive action ( amendment no 40 ) .
we also agree with the idea of conciliation procedures in amendment no 42 , consultation with governmental organisations ( amendments nos 21 , 50 and 51 ) and with the amendments relating to previous acts of the european parliament and the council ( amendments nos 3 , 4 , 8 , 9 and 12 ) .
i also agree with your proposal to define the role of the european monitoring centre - as contained in amendment no 59 - although i should point out that our experience at the commission tells us that the submission of reports by member states every two years is a particularly demanding task and will not enable us to correctly assess the impact of the policies developed .
long discussions were held in the commission when the proposal was drawn up as to whether a ban on discrimination on the grounds of religion should be included in this directive .
the number of amendments which has actually been accepted is very large and i imagine that we agree that we need to examine how these ideas can be incorporated into an amended proposal so that we retain the structure and balance in the text and the proposal has some chance of being approved by the council , because i think that , for all of us , the best balance is between what we want and what is feasible .
the reforms which we are presently endeavouring to implement within the commission have taken account of the entire framework of this directive .
the international community sets great store by the fight against racism and it is also high on the agenda of the member states , but a great deal still needs to be done in order to protect human rights and fight racism , xenophobia and intolerance .
it would be beneficial if organisations or other legal entities which intend to fight discrimination were to have the right to initiate the procedure to promote the observation or application of this directive or to support victims in the procedure .
the same system is now also being proposed with regard to this directive .
clearly , in the 21st century , ideological and political convictions will meet somewhere between the progressive , cosmopolitan perception which accepts a multicultural society , and fundamentalism , which approaches those who are different with fear and enmity and promotes racism and xenophobia .
once the directive has been adopted by the council , we hope that the member states will quickly give immediate priority : first , to judicial cooperation and harmonisation of their criminal legislation ; secondly , to instructing state agencies and employers on how to apply the directive to all natural and legal persons ; thirdly , to applying the 1997 charter of the european political parties on the defence of fundamental rights and the fight against all forms of racial violence ; fourthly , to the right of individual victims of discrimination to take collective action ; fifthly , to guaranteeing the access of minorities to vocational training , employment , health services and national insurance and pension schemes and their participation in economic , social , political and cultural life .
we have to send the message that we are opposed to racism and xenophobia across the eu .
i am glad for that reason that we are having the vote today .
this is the reason i wanted amendment no 48 on simple language to go in .
the plaintiff does have to provide facts and it has already been said that equal opportunities for men and women cover this in european legislation as well .
the action programme against discrimination , the commission ' s two proposals for directives , the opening of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia , and lastly the adoption of article 13 of the treaty all give an irrevocable signal .
the european parliament has also made its own contribution .
i would like to expressly thank mrs buitenweg for her excellent work and i assume that we will adopt this report by a clear majority today , even if the commissioner responsible has let it be known here today that she cannot accept half the amendments .
nevertheless , a very important step is being taken today and we are giving a signal .
at a time when some rightly have doubts about the union , it could in this way also show that it is not just a coalition to defend the economic interests of the rich countries but that it is based on values of freedom , tolerance and solidarity .
for all these reasons we must vote for this report .
most countries already have legislation against racism and discrimination , including in some of their constitutions .
in france last year there were only 14 complaints and convictions for acts of discrimination .
the associations are currently leading the fight against discrimination .
currently , a young person born in a member state of foreign parents is faced with two different situations .
parliament and the commission should ask the council about this issue so that greater coherence can be achieved in all legislation .
but he is free to accept or reject my advice .
we had a similar example in 20th century china during the cultural revolution .
my own party was accused by a lot of left-wingers of racism because it spoke out on the issue of asylum-seekers in the united kingdom .
as so often in this house , we have failed to think through the possible unintended consequences .
this legislation is unnecessary at a european level .
i am proud to say that i am opposed to discrimination and racism in all its forms , but this irrational and unjust legislation will bring europe further into disrepute among many of my constituents .
i am pleased to say that the rest of my delegation will be joining me in opposing it .
mr president , i wish to make three points .
firstly , i should like to congratulate the rapporteur , the draftspeople and the commission - in particular commissioner diamantopoulou - on the directive and the report we have in front of us .
we have here legislation that will make a real impact on the lives of the 12 to 14 million third country nationals living in the european union and the 4 million black europeans .
secondly , and without subtracting an iota from my support for the report and the directive as a whole , the council will have to resolve a number of outstanding issues : on representative actions , on the definition of indirect discrimination and , as the previous speaker said , on the burden of proof .
the best basis is the existing burden-of-proof legislation , which is now underpinned by 25 years of case-law , and where the numbers are not available , expert opinion will suffice .
thirdly and finally , i wish to warn my colleagues in the ppe group .
with mr haider and mr le pen lurking in the background , the vlaams blok and the movimento sociale fiamma tricolore promoting racism and xenophobia , the ppe group , as a whole , should not be surprised if people conclude that if they continue with their technical objections , then this is a thinly disguised attempt to block these proposals which the vast majority of europe so much welcomes .
mr president , the economist says that we need 13.5 million immigrants by the year 2015 in order to get everything done that needs to be done in europe .
perhaps we must also combat these things for the sake of our own future .
in swedish law on measures to combat ethnic discrimination , it is expressly stated that , in using the term ethnic affiliation , the law means that someone belongs to a group of persons of the same race , skin colour , national or ethnic origin or confession .
i assume this will be reflected in their willingness to take on board what parliament is saying .
we have to acknowledge that in this house we regularly call upon other countries and governments to recognise the rights of ethnic minorities and to practice policies of universal human rights .
particularly as an austrian , i can say that in recent years , with a population of 7 million , we have accepted a million refugees .
austria has the world ' s strictest laws against fascism and against nazism .
mr president it is a measure of the effectiveness and importance of this legislation that even in the midst of a comprehensive series of reforms of race relations legislation in my own country , we have a situation where further improvements can be made .
i was going to make a speech of the normal variety , but having heard some of the responses across the house , i want to change what i was going to say , which is more in sorrow than in anger .
this house should recognise and change its tone on what it sees as article 13 .
one is that we create a level playing field through article 13 .
the burden of proof , the ability for organisations to take cases on behalf of individuals who have been harassed or discriminated against - all of these laws do not create an advantage for the majority of society .
we must start talking positively about these proposals mainly because the commission and the portuguese presidency , many who have created this report , many of my colleagues who have worked hard on their opinions , have responded in the way that we have because we understand that this legislation is not about victims , it is about enriching eu countries .
so do i , for i applaud the fact that the commission has been so quick in getting this proposal on the table and implementing article 13 .
we have seen how this is an enormous advantage in connection with sex discrimination , and it is therefore good that it is now being introduced in this area .
in this way , the commission is going to create a hierarchy of grounds for discrimination , a way of proceeding which i think is totally at odds with the wording , meaning and spirit of article 13 .
it is essential that we take advantage of the opportunity that is represented in the commission 's proposals on the whole of article 13 .
i hope that this approach will be addressed when we look at the situation effecting all minorities .
they demonstrate that the member states , parliament and the commission are serious about the long-term eradication of discrimination and racism .
it does not fulfil my every ambition , yet it represents a start to a fight against racism in europe , in our nations , our regions and , more importantly , in our communities .
one day i hope to be standing in this chamber debating directives which will aim to eradicate discrimination specifically based on , for example , disability , age and sexual orientation .
finally , the spectacle of a white middle-class british male tory giving a lecture on discrimination and the effects of discrimination would be laughable if it was not so damning and lamentable . ( applause ) .
we should , therefore , adopt this report without further delay .
this directive forms part of a larger package which implements article 13 of the ec treaty .
as others have already mentioned , this article does not only pertain to combating discrimination based on racial or ethnic origin , but also based on other grounds .
i can understand why the commission has decided to include the fight against racial discrimination in a separate draft directive .
far harder to accept is the fact that this draft directive against racial discrimination applies over a broader social range and , in terms of content , comprises stronger legal guarantees and control mechanisms than the second draft directive which is still in the pipeline and which is designed to fight other types of discrimination .
this would give out the wrong political message which would , in particular , have an adverse effect on the fight against discrimination on grounds such as age , handicap and sexual orientation .
there is not enough time to list them all here , but i do not have the impression that a lack of knowledge on the part of the commission concerning this matter is the problem .
i therefore hope that the commissioner will pledge that she will start this exercise within the foreseeable future and will present proposals soon , as a result of which the equal treatment of the sexes in and out of the work sphere , but especially outside the work sphere , will be aligned to the directive which we are discussing , and will hopefully be adopting , here today .
mr president , we are all opposed to discrimination and violence of all forms .
however , i do not believe extending eu competence to this area is either necessary or useful to its cause .
what we need is education , time and confidence building in a spirit of cooperation between the various ethnic communities .
the shift of the burden of proof , as called for by this draft directive , is both frightening and extreme .
this is a very dangerous precedent against all forms of natural justice .
criminal justice must remain the prerogative of the member states .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place immediately following the urgencies .
the european union , the united states and the united nations have all displayed considerable concern about the developments in sierra leone .
mr president , the violation of the lome peace agreement by the revolutionary united front in sierra leone is not only a human tragedy for the civilian populations , especially for children , but is also a political tragedy for the whole international community .
the impunity enjoyed by the rebels in sierra leone and the weakness of the peace-keeping forces , who can neither leave the country , for political and humanitarian reasons , nor effectively confront the armed rebels , are a threat to any future united nations peace mission .
the mandate of the united nations mission in sierra leone is , by any reckoning , insufficient to achieve its objectives .
its reinforcement , requested by the secretary-general of the united nations , depends on a decision by the security council , the same security council which gave the blue helmets the resources they required in east timor and bosnia , but which is much more reluctant to do the same in sierra leone at the moment .
the united states and great britain have only sent forces to the united nations mission in order to guarantee the safety of the evacuation .
the only solution to the difficulties of the united nations mission , in terms of achieving compliance with the peace agreement , is to entrust the political negotiation to the leaders of liberia and libya , whose record in seeking peace is very doubtful and also very worrying .
the liberation of some of the hostages and the arrest yesterday of sankoh do not put an end to this conflict , but rather they may be a cause for even greater concern .
only clear and decisive action by the international community as a whole can put an end to it : the arms embargo ; the control of diamond trafficking ; the deployment of a rapid intervention force , under the mandate of the united nations ; and the prosecution of the perpetrators of crimes against humanity , the savage attacks against civilians , against international peace and security as well as against the united nations forces .
the european union must therefore support all these types of measures , within the framework of the cfsp .
mr president , during the sierra leone debate in december , i , together with a few other delegates , warned against the risks involving the lome peace agreement .
his strategy is very much akin to that of his godfather , charles taylor , in neighbouring liberia , who , by means of terror , forces the population to vote for him in the forthcoming presidential elections and establishes a new mafia state in the heart of africa ' s diamond industry .
the un peacekeeping force , mainly comprising ill-trained third-world troops , is in danger of heading for a fiasco similar to those back in somalia , rwanda and srebrenica .
it is a good sign that the rebel leader was arrested yesterday and that more than 200 un peacekeeping troops were released over the past couple of days .
more than anything , however , an embargo should be imposed on diamonds smuggled illegally from the country , estimated at usd 60 million annually , which is what is at stake for the rebels in their warfare .
i will call for a ban on these precious stones , which are stained with blood from thousands of innocent citizens , in my own country , belgium .
mr president , given the threats once again faced by the people of sierra leone , when they still have vivid memories of the horror and barbarity they have suffered at the hands of the ruf , we cannot content ourselves with simply condemning the events which are recurring .
let us remember that amongst the objectives of the common foreign policy are the maintenance of peace and the respect for human rights , principles which are being totally disregarded today in sierra leone .
this parliament must therefore urge the member states to support the call of the secretary-general of the united nations so that the deployment of a rapid intervention force may proceed in order to re-establish stability in sierra leone and thereby contribute to preventing the danger of a new civil war which today hangs over that country .
however , our commitment must not end with this call .
the best tribute we could pay to those people who , through that declaration , sowed the seed which has borne such abundant fruit in terms of peace and well-being , would be to commit ourselves to the cause of that beleaguered country , to decisively help the people of sierra leone to re-establish peace and , through peace , the full respect for human rights and the possibility of economic development which will lead it out of poverty and allow it finally to live in dignity .
politically speaking , in europe , mr chris patten and mr solana are two people from the european union whom , in the event of foreign security conflicts , we can call on to use their political resourcefulness to both intervene in the region and to support the un .
with everything which has been said about diamond trafficking and the halting of other dealings which finance the local war , and with everything which has been said about the need to intervene , what we need at the end of the day is a political solution .
mr president , commissioner , any woman or man who , at any time in the course of the last few months , has bought any diamonds must have felt concerned that these might have come from sierra leone or angola and must have wondered whether , in buying them , they had financed the mutilation of children or the drugging of child soldiers or had supported the abduction of the latter from unicef ' s rehabilitation camps .
the other thing we should learn from this is that the lome peace agreement was imposed from outside by outsiders and was totally unworkable .
as with the oil of congo-brazzaville , angola or nigeria and the mineral resources of chad , niger or the democratic republic of the congo , and as in the latter generally or in angola , liberia and sierra leone , the causes are indeed economic and the fight for control of the diamond-producing areas is the basis and reason for this continuing conflict .
however , the sierra leone army and its militias should also come in for criticism .
we are right to condemn liberia and burkina faso for their involvement in the arms trade and the recycling of diamonds .
we remain convinced that the lome agreement still offers the best chance for lasting peace in sierra leone .
the commission is aware of the reports concerning the involvement of neighbouring countries , in particular burkina faso and liberia , in the smuggling of diamonds and in providing support to the rebels in sierra leone .
the commission stresses the role to be played by regional organisations , for example ecowas , in the prevention of conflicts .
the commission is financing with edf regional funds the ecowas conflict-prevention mechanism , which could provide an appropriate channel for dialogue on this question .
as regards humanitarian assistance , through echo we are continuing to finance programmes in support of displaced and refugee communities through international ngos .
since the beginning of 1999 , echo has provided some eur 14m of assistance , covering the supply of medical aid , therapeutic feeding , water and sanitation and psychosocial support to children affected by war .
this month the commission will be seeking approval for a new eur 12m programme of assistance to sierra leone , principally covering refugees and the internally displaced .
this programme will concentrate on providing support first to refugees in neighbouring guinea and liberia , second to internally displaced populations and , thirdly , to women and children affected by the war and , of course , the amputees .
for me the most interesting point to come out of this debate was not just the expressions of concern about the situation in sierra leone - one would expect that - but the number of honourable members who have expressed very clearly and cogently their views on the diamond trade .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken at 6 p.m .
the resolution sends out a powerful message .
the parties have to get round the table and reach a reasonable solution that will last .
this legitimate interest should not interfere with the work that has already been carried out by the indian and norwegian governments whose representatives have been engaged for some time now in the difficult and sensitive task of brokering negotiations .
i know that in spite of the dreadful atrocities that have been committed against the civil population and against members of successive administrations , the sri lankan government at the highest levels is willing to enter into negotiations and is setting no conditions .
we must all recognise the overriding importance of maintaining the territorial integrity of sri lanka .
the international community , including the eu , should be ready to provide substantial material support in due course for whatever solution is worked out and to assist the economic and social reconstruction of the country after so many years of conflict .
this is a scourge which affects us all .
inevitably , the people most effected and most helpless in these situations are the nationals of the target country who have fled the conflict and are trying to lead new lives in europe .
these people are most vulnerable to threats and intimidation from organisations acting on behalf of terrorists such as the tamil tigers .
this situation must change .
the issue of the place of the tamils in sri lanka is a long-standing problem dating back to at least the year of independence in 1948 .
these are well documented by organisations such as amnesty and the us department of state in its 1999 country report .
it is clear that thousands of people have been displaced within sri lanka .
thousands more have sought asylum and the whole population lives in fear of violence .
the resolution is clear .
northern ireland is a clear example of the difficulties of such a process , but also the possibilities .
the situation would also be helped by agreement between the sri lankan political parties themselves and we welcome the efforts of the norwegian and other governments and feel that the commonwealth could have a very valuable role to play in this situation .
mr president , this is an historic day and an historic debate because , after 17 years of war in sri lanka , the european parliament for the first time is actually debating how to bring peace to this war-torn island .
in 1948 , when sri lanka obtained independence , it was one of the most prosperous countries in south asia .
forty-eight years later , that beautiful island of sri lanka has been smashed by a terrorist group now recognised as the most powerful terrorist organisation in the world .
there are four million tamils in sri lanka and there are 15 million sinhalese .
i ask member states to proscribe this terrorist organisation and to help build peace and stability in sri lanka and strongly support the initiative currently being taken by the norwegian and indian governments .
mr president , here we are again witnessing a conflict between two diametrically opposed parties .
on the other hand , in the same geographical area , we have also witnessed another conflict , the conflict of east timor and , with far too great a delay , parliament declared itself in favour of the independence of the eastern part of the island of timor .
the people decided their future and , although this involved fighting , conflict and so forth , succeeded in obtaining what they wanted .
mr president , i yield to no one in my desire for peace in sir lanka and in my condemnation of all violence .
i know that tamil people need 11 pages of documents just to travel from batticaloa in the east to the capital , colombo .
and like everyone here in this parliament , and all european journalists , i have been unable to go to jaffna recently , nor have i seen any television coverage of the battle at elephant pass .
this is a government whose defence budget has risen by 11 % in a year and which , one day , will have to answer allegations of involvement in the assassination of leading tamil figures and other human rights abuses .
let us have a peace for all sri lankans , based on citizens ' rights , humanity and in which government resources are directed at building communities , not helping to destroy them .
mr president , the commission is as concerned as honourable members about the tragic and dramatic civil war which has been continuing for the past 17 years , a civil war which seriously affects the whole population of sri lanka .
it is salutary to recall that over 60 000 people have been killed during the course of this conflict - people in both ethnic groups .
we appreciate the efforts being made in sri lanka to reach a peaceful solution to the conflict but we also reiterate , as i am sure all honourable members would , our concerns for the respect of the basic rules of international humanitarian law .
i should like to say in passing that i would like to express my own appreciation of the role played by the norwegian government , which regularly reminds us by its behaviour on the international stage what we are all missing in the european union on account of the norwegian people ' s referendum decision .
the presidency declaration also rightly called on the government to lift as soon as possible the restrictions on civil liberties and press freedom , which have been introduced under the emergency regulations .
as for our support for rehabilitation in the north and east of the island , a viable political solution has to be found and a measure of peace established before we could consider a major role in this process .
the european commission will continue to provide emergency humanitarian aid to populations affected by the conflict .
through our delegation in colombo , we are following closely the impact of the situation on the civilian population and we are in permanent contact with the icrc , the unhcr and the main ngos .
alas , 12 , 13 years later , the violence continues .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken at 6 p.m .
mr president , commissioner , we must be very careful as europeans about taking issue with separatist movements of the kind being discussed here .
nevertheless , it is , of course , our task to create peace and stability in this area , and in particular to take action against all those criminals who , on a political pretext , have , in the most appalling way , kidnapped and maltreated innocent tourists who are citizens of the european union .
it is the case of equatorial guinea , one of so many african countries which have undergone a very poor transition from the colonial era , during which former colonial relationships , on the one hand , and the ambitions of other member states of the union to extend their area of influence , on the other , have prevented the support necessary and conducive to the establishment of a genuine democratic system .
in 1999 there were general elections to the guinean parliament , during which the international observers noted that human rights , democratic guarantees and freedom of information had been violated .
the same situation may now reoccur during the elections on 28 may , which is why , as this resolution states , we demand the appropriate intervention of the european union , in order to guarantee that democratic elections take place on this occasion .
mr president , the reason for this resolution has already been explained : in equatorial guinea , the political and social situation is still extremely serious .
secondly , the population endures harsh conditions of poverty .
the government of president teodoro obiang has failed to comply with each and every promise of democratisation which it made to the international community .
with regard to the municipal elections of 28 may , there are grounds for concern , because to date there has been no guarantee of any democratic conditions for these elections .
given this situation , as the resolution we have presented indicates , we demand that the government of equatorial guinea initiate a genuine transition to democracy , which we believe could begin by making these municipal elections free elections .
the union must exert pressure in this respect , and not lower its guard or accept any more false promises from president obiang .
article 5 of the lome convention obliges the union and the member states to demand democracy and human rights in equatorial guinea .
mr president , the calling of municipal elections by president obiang should constitute a step forward on the path to democratisation in that country and , therefore , we should take a positive of view of it .
even more so if we bear in mind that the president of guinea is one of the signatories of the cairo declaration and the action plan which accompanies it , which recognises the need to consolidate democratic principles , based on the right of all citizens to choose their leaders freely by means of free elections and , consequently , also the need to ensure that elections are transparent and free , and to adopt the necessary means for their effective observation .
however , the experience of previous elections , during which serious irregularities and a total lack of transparency were noted , as well the continuing lack of democratic guarantees in guinea , requires not only that we observe very carefully how the coming elections are held , but also that we demand , forcefully , that president obiang adopts the necessary measures to guarantee fair play in these elections .
they could also lead to a rapprochement with the european union and the granting of the aid which the european union was prepared to give in the event that democracy was respected .
therefore , as a parliament , we have the obligation to exert pressure on president obiang and demand that he allows these elections to be held in accordance with democratic principles .
the european union must , through all possible channels , demand that the government of equatorial guinea free all political prisoners and end the coercion suffered by the democratic forces , in order to guarantee that the coming municipal elections bring hope to the people of guinea and lead to fruitful relations between guinea and the european union .
iran ( press code ) the struggle in iran for reform and freedom is of great interest .
there have been considerable reasons for optimism in the election of president khatami and the overwhelming vote for reformist candidates in the february elections but , as human rights watch notes , the struggle to control the press is , in many ways , the struggle to control the future direction of the islamic republic as a whole .
the very success of the reformist agenda seems to have provoked a backlash by the conservative reactionary forces and an attempt to punish the majority who voted in february for reform .
the name ' bahar ' clearly refers to a political programme and undeniably supports president khatami ' s reform policy .
the reform process in iran is at risk .
burma mr president , it is an awkward situation , this tenth anniversary of the elections of the nld in burma .
these relations are too important for this .
yesterday , we saw the arrest of 95 members of the nld and the situation in burma has become untenable .
one of the key things we need to look at is the role of some european multinational oil companies , in particular the french-belgium company , total fina .
the british government has actually called on premier oil to withdraw from burma .
the french government should follow the example of the british government .
it is unacceptable that european multinational companies are investing in and backing up a system where large-scale gross violations of human rights are taking place .
when it comes to sanctions , we really need to answer the call that we should implement economic sanctions against the spdc and that we should be ending all links between europe and burma based on trade , investment and , in particular , tourism .
it is unacceptable that we should be investing in tourism in a situation where gross human rights violations are taking place , where people ' s lives and liberty have basically been denied .
thousands of people have been killed and hundreds of thousands of people have fled the country and are living in camps in thailand , malaysia and india .
burma should not receive any better treatment from the international community than south africa and chile did back in the eighties .
this resolution looks at the security and safety arrangements ahead of euro 2000 so that decent football-loving supporters from across europe can go to , watch and come away from football games this summer without fear or concern for their safety : a fairly apt thing to call for considering the recent events in copenhagen .
however , i do understand that there are some queries about the question of the suitability of the charleroi stadium and its ability to safely host the england versus germany game on 17 june .
this stand , like all the others , will be full to capacity on 17 june .
i understand the regional pride of many members from belgium and i do not question that much time is being spent by the organisers of euro 2000 looking into the safety and security aspects of the competition .
mr president , i hope there will be a great football match on 17 june between england and germany .
for example , paragraph 2 of the motion is wrong .
it is therefore completely wrong to talk of regional rivalries .
finally , in the context of euro 2000 , there is an additional requirement that the stadium must be approved by the european union and uefa .
our dutch colleague , mr van den berg , also agrees as he asked me to say that in this case he has witnessed , in addition to a responsible attitude from the belgians , ... ...
mr president , there are a number of advantages to this text .
i must also point out , however , that , for two years now , in both the netherlands and belgium , the sporting , political and police authorities have been preparing in a professional manner for euro 2000 and , in practical terms , huge investments have been made .
of course , but then there is always a risk .
the belgian authorities have given authorisation for the charleroi stadium to be used .
paragraph 3 , which indicates that the king baudouin stadium in brussels might be used , is wrong .
mr president , there is no question in my mind that we all want to see the eradication of hooliganism in football at a european level and globally .
the issue must , therefore , be discussed at a european level , and we should guard against becoming embroiled in local discussions on the capacity and safety of specific stadiums , wherever they might be .
i welcome the dialogue under way now between the commission and sports and football clubs on how matters could improve .
mr president , we must take these issues of hooliganism seriously .
the motion is good in that it indicates that adequate safety measures must be taken .
it would have been much better to point out - and i would like to do so on behalf of many ppe-de colleagues - that , first of all , safety is an essential good over which extreme care is to be taken and for which many efforts are being made with regard to euro 2000 .
i do hope that this match finishes in a sportsmanlike way and i hope that the belgians will not just win here but also a number of matches during euro 2000 .
the content of the current resolution overlooks the causes of hooliganism , whether or not consciously .
this parliament should not be discussing safety during one particular euro 2000 match under pressure from what i assume is a portion of british public opinion .
the commission shares the honourable members ' concern for the health and safety of the hostages in jolo and basilan .
we are following events in mindanao and the neighbouring islands closely .
we are concerned at the escalation of political violence that has taken place after the suspension of the peace negotiations between the government of the philippines and various armed groups .
we believe that only an early resumption of peace negotiations , as requested by the leaders of civil society and of religious groups , offers prospects for a lasting improvement of the situation in mindanao .
an official request for an electoral monitoring mission was sent on 2 may by the equatorial guinea government to commissioner nielson .
the request from the government of guinea-bissau arrived very late and , in keeping with our guidelines , electoral observation missions should be prepared at an early stage in the electoral process so that we can ensure that the process is accurate and fair .
it is relevant that the opposition parties in equatorial guinea have contested the electoral lists and have already decided to boycott the ballot .
we therefore consider that , at this stage , the presence of international observers would not only fail to improve the quality and the transparency of the local elections , there is also a very real risk that this mission could be misused by local authorities as a way to legitimise an unsatisfactory process .
however , we intend to involve ourselves in promoting the process of democratisation in equatorial guinea .
on iran , the commission fully shares parliament ' s concern over the lack of freedom of expression there .
in the comprehensive dialogue between the european union and iran , questions regarding human rights , including press freedom , are regularly raised by the commission .
we deplore the continued violation of human rights by the burmese military regime .
we have strongly supported the eu common position on burma and the decision of the april 2000 general affairs council to strengthen that common position .
we use every opportunity to press our asian partners to urge , what is called - with a touch of george orwell - the " state peace and development council " to enter into a substantial dialogue with the democratically elected representatives and the ethnic minorities with a view to arriving at a mutually agreed internal solution to the problems of burma and to respect for international human rights standards there .
lastly , on football hooliganism : the responsibility for ensuring adequate safety for spectators and players during the euro 2000 matches lies with the relevant national authorities and the relevant football associations .
firstly , we want parliament to recall that , last june , the justice and home affairs council requested member states to step up cooperation in order to prevent and control violence and disturbances in connection with international football matches .
secondly , the community ' s programme for police and customs cooperation finances a project prepared between the police authorities of the netherlands and belgium in which police forces from other member states participate .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken at 6 p.m .
thank you , mr sturdy .
the matter of football hooliganism was under the human rights matters .
mr president , i quite understand that you want to avoid a long debate now , but i do not think it was clear when we decided on this this morning that the urgencieswould simply go by the board .
we were going to discuss guatemala .
everyone is entitled to protection from those seeking political and economic gain from discrimination .
the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left has opted in favour of maximum reinforcement of the position of the victims of discrimination and against all attempts to prejudice this protection .
mr president , i voted for the proposal for the race directive .
i did so very willingly and , particularly in my capacity as representative of the pensioners ' party , i am glad to have been able to use my vote to contribute to the adoption of this directive .
the effect of such a provision would be all the more devastating as the assumed discrimination could be ' indirect discrimination ' which occurs , according to article 2 ( 2 ) ( b ) , ' where an apparently neutral provision , criterion or practice is liable to affect adversely a person or a group of persons of a particular racial or ethnic origin ' .
the european parliament report adds to this in all respects .
however , two interventions by mr desir highlighted that the texts , at least in the french version , contained provisions totally contrary to the principles of international law and , in particular , to the european convention on human rights .
if retained in the final version of the directive , this article would , for the first time , constitute a legal basis for discrimination in the right to work based on ' a characteristic related to racial or ethnic origin ' .
we were anxious to accompany our vote with this reservation which also applies to the totally inappropriate use in several articles , in the french version at least , of the word ' race ' .
for example , in my own region , the west midlands , we have recently seen some worrying instances of racist violence .
i am also glad that the legislation takes account of the notion of " indirect discrimination " , where apparently neutral provisions can have an adverse effect on a person or a group of a particular race or ethnic origin .
right-wing extremism is increasing , not just in austria , but throughout europe .
this directive provides some of the most effective anti-racism legislation that europe has ever seen , and the most effective piece of race relations legislation to affect my own member state since the 1976 race relations act .
minority groups must be given a greater stake in europe .
we must tackle racism wherever and whenever it occurs .
we were delighted to do so , because the european parliament is hereby complying with its task in connection with implementing article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam .
according to article 13 of the treaty , the european parliament is merely to be heard on this matter .
we have nonetheless been unable to vote in favour of those amendments directly affecting matters which come within the sphere of the member states ' criminal law .
but what about all the other protective considerations listed in article 13 of the treaty ?
we are concerned that , by only proceeding on the basis of these two considerations in the present directive , the eu will , in practice , create a hierarchy of possible grounds for discrimination .
the portuguese presidency is to be congratulated for their readiness to put this matter on the council ' s agenda .
with mr deprez and mr de clercq i tabled an amendment to the title of the directive .
the concept of origin is fundamental as discrimination may relate not only to the current status of an individual but also to his origin and descent .
to conclude , the buitenweg report is inspired by a proactive and progressive approach which i have supported .
the risk of a resurgence of the neo-fascist and racist hydra requires close vigilance from us , more so now than ever before .
trafficking in women ( continuation ) the next item is the continuation of the debate on trafficking in women .
mr president , commissioner , i would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the magnificent work she has carried out on such a serious problem .
the trafficking in women is having a very great impact , especially in the border countries of the european union , where mafias are forming which deceive women with promises of employment and a better life , and which lead them eventually into prostitution and , in many cases , into situations which can only be described as slavery .
this is a phenomenon related to our current society , in which immigration is beginning to cause a serious problem , since we are seeing significant movements of people who are seeking the kind of welfare society which we enjoy in the majority , or practically all , of the european union countries .
this situation requires a series of new measures , most importantly aiding victims and prosecuting the people involved in the trafficking in women and children - since it is not just a problem for women , but children as well - for sexual exploitation .
amongst the measures proposed in this report are basically aid to victims and the request that member states amend their legislation in a way which will allow quicker and more coordinated action amongst the various countries in order to resolve this very serious problem .
the victims do not only require material aid , but also legal assistance - because we are generally talking about people with no documentation , with no options and who are living in fear and need help - which , at the same time , protects their identity and guarantees that they will not suffer even worse problems if they return to their countries of origin .
the different countries of the european union must harmonise their legislation in this respect and implement sufficient measures to help these victims .
the trade in sex is increasing at an alarming rate .
the european women ' s lobby reports that only 0.036 per cent of the eu ' s budget for the year 2000 has been set aside for issues of equality and that only a fraction of this fraction goes on measures to combat trafficking in women .
there is a lack of legislation , not only in terms of measures to combat the aforesaid mafia , but also in terms of laws to protect the victims .
all but two member states send victims of the trafficking in women back to their countries of origin , in spite of the possibility that their lives may be in danger .
the committee on women ' s rights and equal opportunities is demanding that the member states provide women who give evidence with protection and refugee status .
we assume that this treaty will contain a clear legal basis for combating all forms of violence against women , including , of course , trafficking in women , and that we shall be devising a common european policy for combating the trade in human beings .
it is a serious matter that we should have this type of trade , because it is often not even adult women who are affected but near-children and very , very young people .
after all , as long as the demand for prostitutes is still there , there will always be women who , enticed by better prospects presented to them , will - often unwittingly - make themselves available as merchandise .
in addition to a sound and generous development policy in order to improve the living conditions of women in our own countries , it is necessary to question the lack of moral standards within our society .
only in this way can trafficking in women be effectively pushed back .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , in 1996 , we more or less got the political go-ahead to tackle trafficking in women at european level , and i am delighted to tell you that the then belgian government played a vital role in bringing about this green light .
but i think we need to ask ourselves whether , after four years of work , europe is sufficiently equipped to be able to fight this trafficking in women effectively .
a second point which is essential to us in this report - and we have been hammering on about this for a while now - is the fact that we need to continue to be committed to the protection of women who are the victims of such types of trafficking .
the body and the human person are not commodities .
a closed border policy prompts immigrants to turn to criminal organisations in order to procure visas or enter the country concerned illegally .
it was proposed that the european union issue temporary residence permits to victims which would be conditional upon the victims giving evidence against the traffickers , but , as yet , italy is the only state to issue permits which are not conditional upon the giving of evidence .
it is our duty to do our part to bring about a radical change in the mentality and culture of our society .
this means promoting policies which support women .
mr president , if we are to discuss trafficking in women , we have to be aware that we are talking about a form of slavery , a modern form of slavery in which the majority of the victims are women subjected to trafficking run by organised crime networks .
the poverty and marginalisation of the women in their countries of origin , the high earnings guaranteed to traffickers and the low risks they incur , and the substantial demand for women for prostitution and other forms of sexual exploitation are the factors behind the growth of this trade .
the tampere european council recently charged the european union to fight against illegal immigration and , amongst other things , against those who profit from the trafficking in human beings .
the contribution of non-governmental organisations in revealing the causes , methods and consequences of the trafficking in women for sexual exploitation , and the support they provide for the victims , has brought about greater awareness of these issues .
the stop and daphne programmes already represent a major contribution of the european union , but we must not stop there .
as the report requests , it will therefore be necessary to establish a legal framework and effective prevention , protection and victim support measures at european level .
on the other hand , the member states and candidate countries must intervene themselves at legislative , administrative and police levels in order to eliminate this crime and , at the same time , increase international cooperation with europol and interpol to fight criminal networks .
the union and the member states currently have no powers whatsoever to intervene efficiently and break up the gangs operating almost undisturbed in our midst and in our neighbourhoods .
i personally advocate therefore that all the strategies used to fight trafficking in and the sexual exploitation of women and children should call for harsh punishment , both for those who profit from the trade in human beings and for those who use the services of prostitutes , as is the case under swedish and canadian law .
women are being held in concentration camps in conditions of true slavery and are being tortured before being forced into prostitution .
before going into the more substantial parts of this subject , i would like to state that the commission remains fully committed to keeping the fight against this degrading form of violation of human rights and human dignity high on the political agenda .
we have proved that in the proposals that we put to the european council of tampere last october .
as several members have already emphasised , preventive and repressive measures , as well as measures to support the victims , together with international cooperation , must be given further encouragement .
i wish first of all to address the matter of improving existing penal law in the member states as regards the criminalisation of traffickers of human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation .
as a starting point in this exercise , we have here the february 1997 instrument , but it has become quite clear that it has its shortcomings .
as i understand , during the hearing in august , the commission will present at the end of this semester a package of proposals on trafficking and the sexual exploitation of women and children .
we have , in my opinion , a firm basis for this in the treaty of amsterdam , the vienna action plan of 1998 and the conclusions of the european council in tampere .
in addition , we need to consider in the drafting exercise horizontal judicial issues such as defining the competent jurisdiction , the rules on extradition and seizure of the proceeds of crime .
the package of proposals that i mentioned before will , therefore , be completed a bit later this year with a proposal for a directive that will cover the issue of temporary residence permits so as to ensure the protection of various victims of trafficking including the victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation .
it is extremely important to couple these two kinds of measures : criminalisation of trafficking and , at the same time , having a proactive policy on promoting the cooperation of the victims with the police and with the judiciary in convicting those who are responsible for such degrading activity .
talking about significant developments in the field of trafficking in women at european level , we also need to take a look at the various activities that are , and have been , supported by the stop programme .
the proposal will , of course , build on experience gained from the first programme .
the programme will allow us , in addition to the stop programme , to help victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation by providing a financial contribution of eur 20 million in the period from 2000 to 2003 .
the commission has , therefore , opened daphne to the candidate countries and will do the same under the stop programme .
finally , the commission has also mobilised other sources of financing to promote both support to local ngos in the candidate countries and prevention campaigns in countries of origin .
in the framework of the new transatlantic agenda and in cooperation with the government of the united states of america , it has , for instance , carried out various information campaigns in poland , ukraine , hungary and bulgaria , to raise an awareness within the population and the public bodies of these countries .
for the future we are exploring the possibility of new campaigns targeting new areas and new countries .
the commission is now actively participating in the work on the draft united nations protocol on trafficking to supplement the draft convention on trans-national organised crime and i sincerely hope that the members of the united nations will be able to adopt this new convention in autumn this year .
this means that we need to be careful when talking about measures such as automatic non-criminalisation of victims of trafficking , possibilities of ngos bringing court action on behalf of the victims and investigative methods in criminal matters .
in other words , we need to be clear about which objectives can be better achieved at european level taking into account the level of cross-border cooperation in place among the member states .
honourable members have an opportunity of adapting what i consider a piece of good work that not only confirms a coherent and multidisciplinary european policy on trafficking but also adds new impetus for further actions which are undoubtedly necessary at european level .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m .
the initiative does not show any strategic vision .
priority is given in the proposal for a regulation to send back foreigners illegally present on the territory of member states under a system of compulsory readmission operating between member states .
the regulation aims to determine which member state is obliged to readmit a third country national in order to implement the agreement in question .
the draft regulation does not debar a member state from sending a foreigner who does not meet the conditions of entry or residence in a member state back to his or her country of origin or another third country .
this provision seems to empower member states to take more severe decisions outside the scope of the proposed regulation .
the proposal is perhaps a way of exercising indirect pressure for the borders of the european union to be fortified .
the regulation permits readmission to another member state to be requested within six months from the time when the authorities of the requesting member state became aware that a third country national may be ( not " is " ) illegally present .
we urgently need to implement the tampere conclusions and devise a common european policy on asylum and immigration based on european humanitarian values and respect for fundamental human rights .
finally , we call on the european commission to take the necessary legislative initiatives on all the issues which touch on immigration and , of course , to define the mutual obligations as between the member states .
we are aware , commissioner , of your personal interest and of the difficulties facing the council and assure you that any initiatives which you may table in this direction will have our undivided support .
furthermore , as mrs karamanou has just said , this represents a programme singularly lacking in solidarity between the member states .
mr president , we are facing a situation which is real problem : the progressive disappearance of internal borders means that non-eu citizens in both legal and illegal situations are moving freely amongst the member states .
my view of the finnish initiative is much less critical than theirs .
i believe we should stress the fact that the finnish initiative was a very significant step forward from the moment it was put on the table , because it led the council to get involved in a very urgent issue .
the thinking behind the finnish initiative means that its proposals no longer have any point , because they have now been fully adopted .
for the reasons which have been expressed , and which i would probably just be repeating : this initiative takes account of one aspect , the most repressive one , but that is only one aspect of the problem .
the rapporteur is absolutely right to point out that this initiative does not take account of questions of procedure , or fundamental guarantees for the procedure , nor does it provide the necessary protection for the fundamental rights of those people who will be caught up in this type of procedure .
finally , it has not been pointed out - and i think it is important that it is - that what we do in this area must be coherent with the member states ' principles regarding readmission of third country nationals .
the ppe has presented two amendments which i hope this house - to take up what the two previous speakers have said - will support in tomorrow ' s vote , thereby sending a political signal , and we ask the commission to present a complete and coherent text sooner rather than later .
i would also like to say on behalf of my group that we fully support the proposal to refer this initiative back .
i would also like to touch upon another problem connected with this , which might perhaps warrant a joint initiative by the member states .
it is all too reminiscent of austria ' s initiative on that famous first day of austria ' s presidency .
i regret that the council ' s and parliament ' s time has been used in this way .
mr president , the karamanou report asks the european parliament to reject the finnish proposal to establish , within the european union , a system for returning illegal immigrants to the member state responsible .
according to this initiative , a member state which arrests illegal immigrants in its territory could return them to the member state through which they entered , with the expectation that the latter would probably return them to the third country from which they originally came .
thirdly , it shows the usefulness - whatever the previous speakers may have said - of the member states ' right of initiative which the treaty of amsterdam retained as a transitional measure in matters relating to immigration and the movement of people .
in these areas , it is important that the national governments , which are still closer to the people than the commission , should retain a full right to make proposals and , of course , decide on these .
however , this initiative is disliked by the federalists who would prefer a less intergovernmental and more community-based approach , in other words granting more power to the commission and the european parliament .
mr president , the commission would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report .
so the commission can subscribe to the approach of the rapporteur and , apparently , the large majority in parliament , in the sense that this initiative , as it stands - and i am not passing judgement on the intention behind it - is unacceptable .
that concludes the debate .
madam president , a gross mistake has found its way into item 34 of the minutes of yesterday ' s sitting concerning the adoption of the resolution on euro 2000 .
mr sturdy , as you know , and as the quaestors point out in the memo which you have received , checks will be carried out at parliament ' s three places of work , that is to say , strasbourg , brussels and luxembourg .
therefore we should do something about it now and not just talk about it .
i would like to inform and at the same time reassure the members who have just spoken on this important and serious matter .
in fact , if the college of quaestors had not ordered an air quality check in these buildings , the problem would not even have been mentioned today in plenary .
this check has therefore been carried out and , as you know , it proved negative on two points .
we shall wait for the results of these checks and we shall take the necessary steps in accordance with the precautionary principle .
however , given that this is a very delicate area , i think we must listen to the recording of the sitting first in order to see whether these changes are really necessary .
during yesterday ' s vote on the buitenweg report , we witnessed some very serious goings-on in this parliament .
madam president , due to the absence of two dozen members and the request for the quorum which we would have established without any difficulty , our group yesterday chose to refrain from preventing the buitenweg report from being put to the vote when this would have been quite possible .
mr duff , yesterday a vote was taken in the house on the buitenweg report , as a result of which , the karamanou and sorensen reports have to be put to the vote this morning .
this is also the reason why mrs buitenweg , who is otherwise requesting a quorum on this , is nobly expressing her reservation because she knows that voting on these reports this morning is the fair thing to do .
i would therefore urge andrew to withdraw his request , since mrs buitenweg and others want a vote to be taken on the sorensen and karamanou reports this morning .
madam president , the issue of requests for the quorum to be tested does not have anything to do with whether we work in strasbourg rather than in brussels .
personally , i would prefer to work in strasbourg , but i consider that if we have decided to work on fridays - and this seems to me to be the issue here - then on fridays the quorum needs to be present .
i think it is odd , to say the least , that our colleagues should behave in this way .
by my calculations , 242 people voted on that report including about 35 members of the ppe , and they should be congratulated on supporting that excellent report yesterday .
mr duff , do you uphold your request ?
we shall then see if 32 members join you .
madam president , should these reports be serious then they certainly deserve a quorum .
very well , so are there 32 members to support this request ? ( 24 members rose ) the request is therefore withdrawn .
if we want to reject finland ' s initiative , we must vote against it .
madam president , this is a very complicated process as mrs karamanou has already explained .
relating to amendment no 10 madam president , with regard to this amendment , there is a linguistic problem .
the french version contains the word " delit " , whereas this is written as " crime " in the english version .
the oral amendment alters amendment no 5 to paragraph 19 as follows : we want to keep " stresses the vital role played by ngos " and then the words in bold in the original amendment are to be altered thus : " which may also include humanitarian organisations in europe that have set themselves the task of receiving and supporting the victims " .
the true responsibility for trafficking in women lies with the men who take advantage of them in europe - in the order of 180 million people , according to my calculations .
the point i am trying to make in this explanation of vote can also be found on page 11 , line 14 of the report , and it is the only line out of the 722 making up the report which reaches the crux of the matter : it states that we must fight for " information and awareness-raising activities with a view to reducing the demand side " .
this must be concerned with offering poor countries the means to develop , so that they can give their inhabitants the chance of a decent life : this process has an economic facet , but also in particular cultural and educational aspects .
non-nafo vessels the next item is the report ( a5-0101 / 2000 ) by mr varela suanzes-carpegna , on behalf of the committee on fisheries , on the proposal for a council regulation laying down certain control measures in respect of vessels flying the flag of non-contracting parties to the north-west atlantic fisheries organisation ( nafo ) ( com ( 1999 ) 570 - c5-0041 / 2000 - 1999 / 0231 ( cns ) ) .
madam president , commissioner , regional fisheries organisations , which regulate fishing operations outside the 200 miles of exclusive economic zones , play a fundamental role in the regulation and rational management of fishery resources in international waters .
as a result , the european union must strengthen its presence in such regional organisations , in those that already exist and in those that may be created in the future .
the european commission needs to have an effective presence , both in terms of human and technical resources , in all these organisations and , as i said , in those that may be created in the future .
the regulation we are now considering represents an attempt to incorporate decisions adopted by the organisation in 1997 , 1998 and 1999 into community legislation to make our internal measures more effective .
what we therefore need , at the end of the day , is a coherent fishing policy , not just in our waters , but worldwide , where all parties act in concert and cannot play their own game .
the nafo regulations - and their assimilation in a unified system - which control and , if necessary , sanction the non-contracting parties and their frequently stateless vessels and fishing , are therefore the most important matter dealt with in the regulation .
the proposal for a regulation under discussion today , on control measures for vessels from countries which are non- contracting parties to nafo , is very much linked to this sense of responsibility that is so necessary in the fisheries sector .
lastly , it is extremely important that countries with vessels operating in nafo waters are contracting parties , just as it is important that the european community is also a contracting party to regional organisations being set up in the south atlantic and beyond the area the community fleet currently operates in .
the reality of the situation is that " vessels from non-contracting parties " usually means vessels flying flags of convenience or flags obtained from countries which have open registers .
the big problem is that these countries selling flags of convenience have no intention of enforcing these rules , and that is the main reason why they appeal to these unscrupulous shipowners who can do what they like .
many of these vessels have been active in the nafo area , but that is not the only place where they operate .
very large numbers have also been fishing for tuna in the atlantic where the regional organisation is icat .
there is no way of enforcing the law .
by far the worst , of course , and not surprising , is spain with 116 vessels , but of course they are not alone .
the spanish fleet is distributed across a very long list including belize , honduras , the netherlands antilles , panama and many others .
the only place which has more of these flags of convenience is taiwan , with 117 , which just beats spain into first place .
for the past two weeks , greenpeace has had a ship in the middle of the south atlantic where they have found plenty of vessels catching tuna , flying these flags of convenience .
mr president , i too should like to welcome this proposal for a regulation from the commission which improves upon certain control measures within nafo .
this is why i must applaud the fact that this proposal aims at incorporating into community legislation three nafo recommendations on controlling activities of vessels of non-contracting parties , and in particular non-contracting parties whose activities are , without a shadow of a doubt , much more suspect than those of any community fleet .
if it is indeed true that the proposal covers nafo ' s latest recommendations on sightings and transhipments from its annual meetings in 1998 and 1999 , it is also true to say that this represents nothing more than a reworking of the 1997 recommendation , which is only now being taken into account .
besides this now traditional complaint , this proposal for a regulation represents an opportunity to debate the real problem of flags of convenience and discuss what the european union is doing to deal with them .
the european union is responsible for taking the lead in the fight against such harmful forms of fishing and must be capable of putting forward its own alternatives .
as you know , the aim of the regulation is to implement at community level a very important nafo scheme intended to counteract non-contracting party activities which risk undermining the effectiveness of nafo conservation measures .
in this context , i should stress that the community , as a contracting party to nafo , has every interest in measures that help to resolve problems caused by states which do not discharge their cooperation and conservation obligations under international law .
amendment no 1 does not seem to be necessary .
what is more , this wording is drawn from the language used in other legal texts , for instance the council decision concerning the approval by the community of the fao compliance agreement and the council regulation laying down certain control measures in respect of vessels flying the flag of non-contracting parties to the convention on the conservation of antarctic marine living resources .
the debate is closed .
the debate is closed .
the governing regulation no 850 / 98 entered into force on 1 january of this year , but it must obviously continue to be periodically adapted to incorporate any new data and scientific innovations which may emerge .
we also feel that reducing the size of carpetshells from 40 to 38 millimetres , which has been widely called for by the sector , is a very positive step .
these measures are a step in the right direction .
mr president , we are now discussing the fifth amendment in two years to the regulation on technical measures for the conservation of juveniles of marine organisms .
these millimetres are important because when the landing size was increased to the current 40 millimetres , this caused serious problems for women who harvest shellfish in my region , galicia , as it did for the whole marketing sector and for consumers themselves .
environmental conditions in densely populated areas where the carpetshell breeds and reproduces , such as in the estuaries of galicia , do not allow them to reach the 40 millimetres required by the regulation which we are going to change today .
the truth is that 80 % of naturally produced carpetshells fall short of the current size requirement .
in places where molluscs are most abundant - and i am thinking of the ferrol and arosa estuaries - the size of carpetshells does not exceed 36 or 38 millimetres .
carpetshells measuring 40 millimetres are neither produced , sold nor consumed , simply because there are none .
this house must realise that , by drawing up these technical measures , we are trying to protect juveniles , by allowing them to reach a certain size and breeding age , whilst at the same time trying to reduce unnecessary yields .
the only thing we hope , commissioner , is that we do not have to review the regulation again within a year , because this would mean that both we and the european commission had once again made a mistake in our calculations .
up until now , measures have consisted of reductions in quotas , minimum mesh sizes for nets and fishing bans in certain periods .
however , while these measures will hopefully contribute to improving the state of fishery resources , i am concerned that the commission has not got it right in certain other areas : for example , in the recent report on the implementation of magps and the drastic cuts that it calls for in some fleets which is of grave concern to scots and other fishermen .
the commission must get conservation measures right , but i am not convinced that magps are the way to do that .
mr president , i should like to express my gratitude for the fact that my suggestions were taken into account when this report was drawn up and , in particular , the recommendation that the size of deepwater rose shrimps be set at 22 millimetres rather than at the 24 millimetres proposed by the commission .
although i think that the commission ' s proposal is not unreasonable , we have to bear in mind that the size limit is being set for the first time and that this species is an important part of the catches of certain fleets in southern spain and portugal where , until now , they have been fishing for shrimps without any size restrictions .
in a species that does not grow very large , 2 millimetres is a great deal when trying to determine whether the profitability of some very small-scale fisheries will be increased or decreased .
mr president , firstly , can i congratulate the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee on fisheries on his report on the revision of the regulations on the conservation of fishery resources and technical measures for the protection of juvenile marine organisms .
i therefore hope the council will be able , after this debate , to reach a speedy agreement .
it is important for the conservation of sea birds .
mr president , i should just like to say that i hope the conference of presidents will take serious note of the numbers - or rather lack of numbers - of members in the chamber voting on that very important report .
you all know that competition law has been one of the most important objectives of the european union - and therefore of the european commission - since the founding treaties came into existence .
a regulation of this kind has existed in the field of insurance since 1992 , and expires in 2003 .
when there is one large and 20 small insurers , then the large one may not have more than 10 per cent of the market share for the exemption agreement to be accepted .
all in all , i can say that parliament is satisfied with this interim report and that it expects the commission to make continuous progress on this matter and achieve an end result for the insurance industry within the framework of the exemption regulations in force , all of which expire in 2002 and 2003 , including for other areas .
rather than adopting hundreds of individual exemption decisions , the commission adopted in 1992 a block exemption regulation granting exemption , with conditions , to agreements between insurance undertakings in four categories : agreements concerning the joint calculation of risk premiums , those concerning standard policy conditions , co-insurance and reinsurance , pooling arrangements and agreements adopting standards for safety equipment .
the current regulation expires on 31 march 2003 and a new regulation will be necessary .
the report produced by the commission on 12 may 1999 , which it was pursuant to article 8 of the council enabling regulation , was the first step in the process leading to the adoption of a new regulation .
the next step in the consultation will be a hearing organised by the commission on 28 june of this year for an exchange of views between all those who have submitted comments on the report on the regulation .
mr president , last sunday in bergamo , my native town , i held a meeting on insurance and compensation for damages , which mr langen discussed in his report .
i therefore call for measures to be included in the regulation that will put a stop to this injustice .
i just wanted to ask whether mrs van der laan is here or have i missed her as well ?
the european parliament must do what it can to avert this catastrophe .
yesterday mr lannoye moved to table the motion by 185 members to set up a temporary committee of inquiry into echelon in accordance with rule 151 of the rules of procedure , which was rejected by a majority at the conference of presidents ' meeting on 13 april , for a resolution by parliament .
mr president , i do not know if the problem lies in the wording , but this does not appear to answer the question i was asking .
in fact , on tomorrow ' s agenda , the conference of presidents has tabled its proposal for the establishment of a temporary committee , not a committee of inquiry .
mr president , i think that it is quite reasonable to propose two votes at the same time , but i insist that there should be two votes : firstly , a vote on the principle of establishing a committee of inquiry , which was rejected by the conference of presidents , and there may have to be a second vote if agreement is reached on establishing a temporary committee , which , i must point out , serves a quite different purpose .
these are two different problems and a close look at the rules of procedure will show that rule 151 does not provide for a temporary committee : it only mentions a committee of inquiry .
decision on urgent procedure the next item is the vote on the motion for urgent procedure with regard to the proposal for a council regulation [ com ( 1999 ) 576 - c5-0280 / 1999 - 1999 / 0236 ( cns ) ] amending regulation ( eec ) no 1251 / 1999 establishing a support system for producers of certain arable crops to include flax and hemp grown for fibre and the proposal for a council regulation [ com ( 1999 ) 576 - c5-0281 / 1999 - 1999 / 0237 ( cns ) ] on the common organisation of the market in flax and hemp grown for fibre .
i should like to reiterate my express thanks in this connection to the commission and commissioner fischler , who has been most cooperative in this matter .
the chairman of the committee on agriculture has tabled a procedural motion .
secondly : next year will mark the tenth year without any material progress with the legal status of european political parties or life breathed into the treaty .
thirdly : we would remind the house of the important preliminary work carried out in the tsatsos report adopted in 1996 and the kuhne report of 13 april 2000 .
we want to give them this opportunity and we want , above all , to ensure that , in all aspects of support for european political parties , we have a transparent situation and clear legal conditions which can be presented as such to the public .
this will serve the credibility not only of the parties but also of the european union and the european parliament .
mr president , commissioner , i agree with the words of chairman poettering on this joint initiative and , if you will allow me , i would like first of all to remind you that ten years ago we achieved jointly - on that occasion we were the christian democratic party , the liberals and the socialists - the inclusion in the treaty of maastricht of the article recognising the personality of the political parties .
we want to resolve this problem which is not just a question of a legal vacuum but a constitutional problem for the european union .
we have made certain useful suggestions so that we may find our way out of a situation which is not only unsatisfactory but also negative for the development of democracy in europe .
we have taken an initiative across the various political groups , which we presented in february to president prodi .
as a matter of law there has been a reference to political parties in the treaty for more than seven years now .
it states that the parties are a factor for integration , they contribute to the formation of european awareness and are a vital element in the democratic life of the union and the political debate of the union .
the question is : can the commission take an initiative which breathes life and operational content into the aspirations of article 191 ?
that really is what the debate is about in this house today .
we are asking for your assistance to ensure that this vital element , as the treaty states , in the democratic life and political debate of the union is validated by statute .
mr president , according to the treaty , parties which contribute to informing the citizens about events which take place within the union and the european parliament are political parties , and therefore , by their political activities , they contribute to the development of a european awareness and european knowledge .
they contribute to forming a european awareness and to expressing the political will of the citizens of the union " .
nevertheless , as i have just said , as important as this text is , it is merely declaratory .
firstly , the requirement for speed : things have perhaps dragged on for too long over a period of ten years , without any solution being found .
the first , which was recommended in the ferber report , would be to draw up a legislative proposal on the basis of the current treaty .
in this framework , article 308 could be an operational measure , at least in a provisional phase , linking it to article 191 , in content .
but , and i am not saying ' but ' in a restrictive way , it is simply an expression of the concern for legal security that i mentioned , you know as well as we do that the use of article 308 is cause for quite widespread reservation and that , in any event , it requires unanimous agreement following consultation of the european parliament .
we shall do so in light of the discussion which will take place in july , by working on and using the optimum legal combination of articles 308 and 191 .
the commission has therefore responded very favourably to this request .
in the next few days , it will shoulder its responsibilities and will , in the spirit that i have just mentioned , launch a three-stage initiative , with the reservation that i mentioned right at the beginning of my speech , which is the coordination that there must be between us , with all the institutions .
the germ of the idea was already present in the commission opinion of 26 january , which i delivered to you , with president prodi , on the subject of the european commission ' s proposals for reforming the institutions , as , in the text of 26 january we proposed , as you yourselves did , to draw up european lists for the european elections .
that is why , in the next few days , the commission will be adopting the initiative that you have been requesting , first through the trialogue and then by looking at how the optimum combination of articles 308 and 191 can be achieved within the framework of the igc .
secondly : i am also delighted that we are again stepping up the political debate on the party statute , the pressure of time in the run up to the final stage of the intergovernmental conference notwithstanding .
this is also a question of political self-awareness , a question of political identity , a question of the role of national and european parties in the unification process .
but a stronger european parliament depends on strong groups in parliament which have the authority to act .
we want a strong commission which drives the european integration process forward .
we want a statute for european political parties because our democracy is a civil and party-political parliamentary democracy .
my group started taking steps in this direction even before the court of auditors ' report in order to clarify this transparency and this division .
mr president , i take good note of commissioner barnier ' s statement and the commitment which the commission is making .
the union treaty , at that time signed by the twelve heads of state and government and ratified by all the parliaments of the member states with the approval of the european parliament , which recognises citizenship , is not , it appears , a sufficient legal basis .
this surprises me because to be associated with a political party is a fundamental right for citizens and , while our citizenship is recognised , that right is not .
i understand that the proposal relating to the tripartite dialogue and stemming from article 308 is a provisional proposed legislative provision and the best laws , at least in my country , are provisional laws , which are the ones which have lasted the longest .
the second step is the amendment of the treaties .
i believe i can say that we all support it , but the important thing at the moment is , firstly , the existence of a public commitment by the commission to exercise its right to initiative , a common will to consolidate a fundamental dimension for european citizenship and contribute immediately to the political parties beginning not only to exist in reality , but also to be legally recognised , because i believe that this is an important step towards the construction of european democracy .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i naturally concur with mrs hautala ' s views on transparency .
i hope that the commission can give me a clear answer to it .
direct links with people exist not at a pan-european , but at national or regional level .
on 12 december last year , the chairmen of the party of european socialists , the european people ' s party , the liberal , democrat and reform party and the european free alliance and the secretary-general of the european federation of green parties themselves stated in a joint declaration that clarification was needed as to what a european party is .
i have nothing against european parties .
the criticism of the court of auditors was justified .
i should like to close by saying that i too am in favour of finding a solution to this muddle .
mr president , i would first of all , perhaps specifically for the benefit of the german delegates , insofar as they still care about respecting the rule of law , like to remind you of the judgement by the german constitutional court of karlsruhe , in which the european union is unambiguously defined as a confederacy , and hence the opposite of a federal state .
in fact , this vision of the european union is also held by the large majority of citizens of our member states for whom our union is a close partnership of free peoples and states which very clearly respects the principle of subsidiarity .
in a european union which really respects the principle of subsidiarity , we do not need a european political party .
the court here in strasbourg can support us in connection with human rights .
in brussels , we have close economic cooperation between the eu and the eea in connection with a common market .
it is a rhetorical question , but who of us knows anything about the european political parties ?
the european political parties do not represent democracy .
at this point , i doubt - judging by the number of mouths that are watering here - that we have the majority that is required to reject this motion , to reject this institutionalisation of bureaucracy , which is becoming more and more pervasive within parliament .
i think that the public should be made aware of this : what is being proposed to us today is not a europe of the citizens but a europe of the taxpayers , whom we are once again going to bleed dry in order to allow bureaucracy to proliferate in the future .
i expressed this by calling article 308 a valuable operational procedure .
after this we will accept our responsibilities - and i repeat this for the second time - and we shall also accept our responsibilities within the framework of the intergovernmental conference , at which i promise to fight for the proposal that the commission will be producing in the next few weeks , as strenuously as you know i can .
the subject you have raised , mrs maes , is an extremely sensitive one , and this issue is clearly open to various interpretations .
ultimately , we must recognise the true nature of political debate in europe and give this debate a sounder structure and a clear and transparent legal basis .
considering the matter from this point of view , these changes would represent progress for the general public but also , mr dupuis , for the taxpayers , who are generally the same people .
i should like to add or repeat that these european political parties , as they are organised today , on an unsteady foundation , and as they will be organised tomorrow , on a clear and legally sound basis , if we succeed , will not replace the national political parties , they will complement them and will give them a european dimension .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12 noon .
this development complements nato , which will continue to remain responsible for collective security in europe .
we must realise that amsterdam transferred the petersberg tasks of the weu to the european union and that , as a result , practically all areas of the western european union now come under the responsibility of the european union .
i think this intergovernmental conference should consider whether article 5 can be adopted in the form of a protocol to the eu treaty and whether we should leave it to each member state to take a sovereign decision as to whether or not it subscribes to this protocol .
the european parliament will advocate bringing the community position , the community part to the fore .
we clearly must coordinate these two dimensions and particularly the military and non-military crisis management actions which the eu may decide to undertake .
i must point out that the interim bodies started work in march 2000 and that the committee for civilian crisis management was formally created during the portuguese presidency .
as will be evident from the presidency ' s report to the feira european council , an effort is being made to simultaneously develop the military and non-military crisis management capabilities .
this represents a major effort by the member states to ensure sustained and uniform development of these two dimensions which are fundamental for security and stability .
in this context it must be said that the european union will use , in order to develop the headline goal , the nato defence planning , the planning and review process for countries which are not members of nato and the defence capabilities initiative which is ongoing within the alliance .
no increase in the community budget is planned as these efforts are to be implemented by the member states in a context of voluntary cooperation .
as for the involvement of the european parliament in this process , it should be recalled that the common european security and defence policy is a component of the common foreign and security policy .
the eu intends to make its foreign dimension more effective and credible by developing military and civilian crisis management capabilities .
under article 21 of the treaty on european union , parliament shall be consulted by the presidency on the main aspects and the basic choices of the common foreign and security policy .
the need to avoid unnecessary duplication and to make the best use of all the existing assets and capabilities also underlies the development of the common european security and defence policy .
it is therefore natural that the member states have from the beginning advocated the transfer of weu powers which could prove useful in the process now under way in the european union .
portugal , which holds the presidency of the weu , has tried to advance the process for transferring powers from the weu to the european union .
the weu has already taken the decision to allow the eu direct access to these structures .
the common european security and defence policy requires a close , intense and transparent relationship between the european union and nato .
the report to be presented to the feira european council includes a document establishing the principles and terms of this relationship during this interim period .
four ad hoc working groups involving the eu and nato will be created on the following issues : security , european military capability , development of processes for transferring nato assets and capabilities to operations led by the european union and , finally , definition of the permanent terms of the relationship between the european union and nato .
it must be stressed that the headline goal defined in helsinki is open to participation by these countries which may therefore contribute to the european force .
according to the document agreed by the european union which will form an integral part of the feira european council report , a single and inclusive structure will be created in which the fifteen member states of the european union and the fifteen third countries will participate .
in view of the fundamental role of the six european allies who are not members of the european union and also bearing in mind that nato may provide assets and capabilities for operations led by the eu , meetings will take place within this single structure between the fifteen and these six countries to discuss issues involving the development of the european military capability .
the french presidency will be responsible for presenting the nice european council with proposals on the terms for the consultation and participation of these countries .
finally , in helsinki the portuguese presidency was given the task of presenting the feira european council with an indication of whether or not the treaty of amsterdam needs to be revised .
the commission has actively contributed to non-military crisis management since long before the cologne and helsinki summits .
we need to improve our capacity for rapid and targeted action .
the creation of additional instruments , or the mobilisation of additional funding , does not , in my judgement , stand in the centre of current deliberations ; nor are far-reaching treaty changes required .
i hope that we will have the support of parliament in working through it .
the commission recently tabled a proposal for the creation of a rapid reaction facility .
we had de gasperi .
we had fouchet .
the decision taken at maastricht , the decision taken at amsterdam , the decision taken at helsinki - they all mark a signal move forward , a recognition that we have not done enough in the past to ensure that europe 's voice is heard adequately around the world and that europe 's capacities to prevent and manage crises are brought to bear with sufficient competence and vigour .
this time we have to ensure that a common foreign and security policy ensures that europe discharges its responsibilities at the level which events require , at the level which our citizens now in my judgement demand .
we in the commission want to play our full part in ensuring that this time a common foreign and security policy is a resounding success .
mr president , minister , commissioner , i should like to welcome , as my colleague , elmar brok has just done , the progress that has been made in european defence and political unity .
europe awoke when the crisis in kosovo arose .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , as you can see , the european parliament takes a very close interest in this new policy , which will become the common european security and defence policy , and we will have occasion to discuss it often in the future .
i am now speaking in my capacity as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy , but in more general terms , i think i can say that the great majority of the european parliament , which does not mean unanimously , approves , as i do , of the new impetus that the cologne and helsinki summits have given to this policy since the treaty of amsterdam .
that being the case , the european parliament must draw a clear distinction between civilian and military crisis management .
the former is obviously the approach we favour .
by the same token , how can we guarantee effective coordination , which is a continual problem , between the council , the council ' s high representative , the commission , and in some cases , member states , ngos etc ?
there is still much to be done to ensure that the european union has adequate military resources , which is why we are putting these questions to you .
with regard to our relations with nato , i paid great attention to what you said , mr president-in-office of the council .
finally , mr president , i shall in turn stress a matter to which the european parliament understandably attaches great importance : the parliamentary dimension of security and defence policy .
even if the executive must always have overall responsibility for this matter , we must stress the role of parliaments , both national parliaments and the european parliament .
mr president , the decisions made at the helsinki european council on the development of a common security and defence policy are open to interpretation .
under the treaties , the aim of a common foreign and security policy for the union is to safeguard its independence and integrity , as well as strengthen its security in all its forms .
in the opinion of the non-aligned member states , only the creation of a system for crisis management has been decided upon .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it is useful to remind ourselves and to realise that we are in the first round of many of a debate on european security .
this is a good example of how , also in future , the union will be able to use its nearly unlimited options in the field of non-military crisis management .
instead , scenarios such as the war in kosovo or imaginary crises in the future , islamic fundamentalism or , as in the german defence guidelines , even possible ecological threats are wheeled out in order to justify huge military spending .
let me pick up on just one issue , an issue which figured at the centre of all the positions taken here today : the war in kosovo .
i think that the council , the commission and we ourselves are drawing the wrong conclusions in principle from a war which was wrong in principle .
first , the violation of international law , as practised by nato , and which , for the rest , still forms part of the official nato military strategy , should not shape future security policy .
my group takes an opposing view in principle to the present prevalent european security policy on at least three counts .
germany has earmarked dm 17.5 million for civil conflict management projects this year .
mr president , we take a different approach to the important point raised by our colleague , mr brok ' s question to the council .
this is an important issue , because , following the very serious crises that have struck the balkans , the european council , especially in its cologne and helsinki declarations of june and december 1999 and the presidency , particularly in the two reports it has drawn up on the union ' s military and civilian resources for dealing with crisis situations , have demonstrated their intention to see the union become more closely involved in the management of crises that threaten european security , interests and values .
a number of european union member states , but also non-members , may perceive such threats as common threats .
it would be useful to know whether the council feels that the upturn in growth in europe is such as to favour this essential turnaround and how the council intends to promote it .
mr president , with regard to defence , the council which is to be held in feira on 19 and 20 june will work on the basis of the conclusions of the meeting of the foreign ministers of the fifteen member states in the azores and on the conclusions of the meeting of the defence ministers of the weu member states .
nato , which was created in 1949 to defend western europe against soviet imperialism , ought to have disappeared at the same time as the soviet union did , in 1991 .
the 50 000 soldiers of eurocorps have been under nato command since 1993 , and above all , whilst nato had done nothing for the people of berlin , hungary , czechoslovakia or poland , it engaged in a brutal and massive intervention specifically to destroy serbia ' s civil infrastructures , yet without thereby solving the problems of kosovo .
the required " firm political commitment on the part of all member states " of paragraph 19 of the resolution is lacking .
mr president , we must recognise that the progress that has been made in recent months in the field of security and defence policy originated from the informal council of defence ministers in sintra , which should be included on the list of successes of the portuguese presidency .
one of the many and complex problems involved in the development of this policy , which necessarily requires greater involvement by finance ministers and defence ministers , is the role and influence of the institutions .
furthermore , the appropriate measures should be taken for the parliament to exercise control over the security and defence policy and so that it is constantly and adequately informed of its tasks and of the provisional bodies which currently work in the service of the council of ministers of the european union .
what i have just said with regard to parliament , mr president , is equally valid for the commission .
the balance between the institutions should not be altered in the case of such an important question .
furthermore , mr president , this european union project is not just a matter of a political , economic and military union .
we in the european union do not simply define ourselves as consumers in a big market place , but as citizens of the union .
the citizens of the union , represented by parliament , increasingly want to be involved in this area which concerns them and affects them directly , namely the common security and defence policy .
central to this was robert schuman ' s speech of 9 may 1950 .
schuman began his speech with these words : ' world peace cannot be preserved without constructive efforts to combat impending dangers ' .
this far-sighted approach permeates the socialist group ' s vision of europe ' s foreign and security policy and is also a persistent theme in mrs lalumiere ' s report on the eve of feira , a report which our group supports wholeheartedly .
we share the same planet and the same fate .
in today ' s globalised world following the end of the cold war , poverty and exclusion stand out as the main enemies of peace and democracy .
the headline goals which have been established are important and must be implemented in full , without delay and without exception .
at the same time , we must , however , oppose those who wish to exaggerate our military capacity and role .
we should accept increased responsibility for security on our own continent , but we should not take the place of nato or create an embryonic form of permanent and independent european defence .
mr president , mr president-in-office , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , contrary to the priorities for feira , the european union must strengthen the civil conflict prevention dimension of its policy .
that means , as far as weighting instruments is concerned , that the financial and material focus must be on an effective conflict prevention policy .
mr president , a european union which cannot play a clearly defined role in terms of security and defence creates uncertainty on the world stage .
the christian democrats hope that the transfer of tasks and competencies from the western european union to the european union can contribute to this clarity .
mr president , we have emphasised the civil and military aspects of this policy in our resolutions .
this is why it is essential that this european parliament , in which we discuss all kinds of civil affairs with each other all the time , be the place where the military components form part of a wider context in parliamentary supervision too .
i also have to say that the nature of the tasks which we have in mind , the petersberg tasks , is such that here is the ideal place where they can be dealt with .
we want to cooperate with north america in these matters too , but also - and particularly - with sound backing from the council .
the war in and about kosovo has made europeans realise three important things .
secondly , we have learned that we are unable to intervene independently on our own continent and in our own neighbourhood , even in the case of very limited military action .
the european parliament should also gain greater influence on military action through the budget and proper accountability through the council .
if the union only deals with civil and police matters whilst the governments ' exclusive remit is military aspects , then the unity of european action is in danger of becoming the first casualty in crisis situations .
i am not only thinking of kosovo , which has been so important to us as an eye-opener .
unfortunately , this philosophy , as can be seen from the debate , prevails not only in the council and the commission , but also in the european parliament which , instead of expressing the feelings and interests of the citizens , is about to ratify an extremely dangerous policy for europe and mankind as a whole .
i thank him particularly for his undertaking to examine my proposal for a european public security force , because there are several organisations across europe which could offer experience , not least the royal ulster constabulary in northern ireland .
the aim is to develop our own capacity in order to be able to implement the so-called petersberg tasks .
autonomy should certainly not culminate in a political exchange between the common european security and defence policy and the national missile defence , as was suggested recently by an american senator during the nato assembly in budapest .
the second point is about democratic control .
in my own country the vast majority of people are against the militarisation of europe , especially a europe that will have nuclear weapons at its disposal , a europe where the arms industries are exporting arms to places around the world where there are mass and gross abuses of human rights .
we in the neutral countries are being told that collective defence is not going to be part of it , but of course when we get in so far then there will be no going out .
finally , i was quite amazed to hear mr newton dunn cite the ruc as a good example of policing .
if you look at the human rights organisations around the world that have amassed damning reports on that organisation , it is incredible to put it up as an example .
i am sure there are good examples , but the ruc is not one of them .
it is important for decisions on military intervention to remain the responsibility of national parliaments .
this european security and defence policy must be subject to parliamentary monitoring in this house .
the president-in-office has said that transparency and clarity are needed .
i also wish to congratulate the council on being able to establish at the last summit the principle of the headline goals .
the western european union armaments group , for example , moves very slowly on the basis of consensus .
we clearly need more urgency in this area and we need a single , coherent framework within which the defence industry can cooperate .
the commission has a crucial role in this .
this commission has been completely silent on this issue .
we have to ensure that the single market applies to defence industries as far as possible , and that article 296 only applies in those areas specified in the treaty .
i would urge commissioner patten to follow in the footsteps of commissioners bangemann and van den broek to drive forward the commission 's responsibility in delivering an effective and competitive european armaments industry in order to back up the measures we are taking in the political field .
mr president , considerable progress has been made towards the establishment of a common european security and defence policy .
if member states are indeed serious about establishing a real security and defence policy then they must put their money where their mouth is .
these realities must temper our discussions at feira and elsewhere as must also the need to keep in mind the status and role of the united nations .
the experience of kosovo has underlined the need for such an initiative and i welcome the fact that it may happen at feira .
there is also the question of developing a system of regional responsibility in europe which does not fly in the face of the united nations system , as has been maintained time and again , but which , on the contrary , can be incorporated into the united nations system and into the ideas of the united nations .
mr president , we are regularly reassured that the measures being put in place under the common european security and defence policy are intended to strengthen nato .
the real desire is to create something separate from nato .
the amendments we have put forward to the lalumiere resolution are intended to stress the importance of the continued commitment of our north american allies to the security of europe as a foremost priority , to make it clear that the european union should only opt to act militarily in agreement with the alliance and when nato as a whole has chosen not to be engaged , to insist that any rapid reaction force should also be assigned to nato and in any case should not impact adversely on the capacity of nato allies to meet their alliance obligations .
we want eu decisions relating to the use of military assets , including decisions taken on the basis of a common strategy or when implementing a joint action , to be taken unanimously .
the royal ulster constabulary is a fine force with a proud record in fighting terrorism but this is not at all relevant to this particular debate .
one might even say that europe has entrusted the task of a military presence to the nato leadership and , at the same time , relaxed its efforts over the years , to the point at which it is now more or less incapable of properly honouring its obligations within nato .
if someone , be it a person , a country or a group of countries , considers that it has no initiative to act , it loses interest , neglects its duties or goes through the motions of performing its duties , but there is no substance to them and they are performed perfunctorily .
perhaps the most important outcome of the resolutions of the cologne , helsinki and lisbon summits is precisely the fact that they have restored europe ' s sense of initiative , giving it the motivation needed in order to accept responsibility , make an effort and honour its obligations .
mr president , mr president-in-office , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the proposed resolution on a common european security and defence policy is an important signal from the european parliament in the run-up to the feira summit , a signal which points in two directions .
secondly , a signal to take account of and strengthen the role of the european parliament in fashioning a common european security and defence policy .
the specific undertaking to create a european strike force no more than 60 000 strong in order to complete the petersberg tasks calls for solidarity between all the member states of the european union .
the idea of attaching article 5 in an additional protocol to a revised treaty , to which the individual member states may accede if necessary , therefore represents a reasonable attempt to find a solution .
mr president , minister , commissioner , honourable members , it is quite right to make crisis management the main objective of european foreign and defence policy .
not only has she made specific proposals , she has also highlighted the need to find a modus operandi and a modus vivendi for all the means proposed in order to implement european foreign policy .
having said this , may i suggest , minister , that we act with the greatest caution when it comes to questions such as the integration of the western european union or relations with iaoi .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , a year has gone by since the war in kosovo , and intensive reconstruction work has begun .
mr president , secretary of state , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , in order for the european construction process to maintain its vitality , which is a prerequisite for its survival , each point of arrival must also form a point of departure .
although this was clearly not our desire , the fall of the berlin wall has obviously not helped with security and defence in europe .
we must therefore have effective mechanisms for managing crises using non-military means , for developing and ensuring the compatibility of the military capabilities of the member states , for mobilising adequate financial resources in the national and community budgets and for establishing effective decision-making structures .
the commitment of the member states is essential .
this report is the result of our commitment to carry out in full the mandate established in helsinki .
regardless of certain differences which are evident here in terms of security and defence cultures , and more so in the defence culture than in the security culture , we believe that we all agree on the need for the european union to rapidly acquire a crisis management capability at either military or non-military level .
as for the eu-nato link , all the concerns expressed about how the creation of a common european security and defence policy may reflect negatively on the relationship with nato are unfounded .
on the contrary , we believe that this mechanism will allow us to independently reinforce a particular dimension without creating any type of barrier in our relationship with nato .
moreover , the mechanisms which we are implementing to link member states who are in nato with those who are not and , at the same time , the formulas which we are using to link the european union in terms of security and defence with nato partners outside the eu seem to have found the right balance .
civilian crisis management has been one of the aspects highlighted by the portuguese presidency , particularly bearing in mind the concerns felt within the council and also expressed in this house about this dimension .
firstly , there was some discussion about the sort of institutional arrangements that we need to make , not least in the commission , to cope with the responsibilities of adequately implementing a common foreign and security policy and , in particular , to ensure that we can play our own role in the non-military aspects of conflict prevention and crisis management .
we need our own crisis units in the commission , but we should keep that small .
we have made proposals about asymmetric trade measures for the balkans , which are now being considered by the council and , in due course , will be considered by parliament .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon .
i extend a warm welcome to the australian delegation , which is here to attend the 24th european parliament / australia interparliamentary meeting , taking place here in strasbourg on 14 and 15 june .
we now look forward to the strengthening of our cooperation with australia .
i wish you all a successful and an enjoyable stay here in strasbourg .
these amendments have been deemed to be inadmissible .
on the other hand , all the other amendments have been deemed to be acceptable , and indeed has always been the case . ( parliament adopted the calendar of part-sessions as amended ) simplified procedure - without report initiative of the grand-duchy of luxembourg with a view to the adoption of a council decision establishing a procedure for amending articles 40 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , 41 ( 7 ) and 65 ( 2 ) of the convention implementing the schengen agreement of 14 june 1985 on the gradual abolition of checks at common borders ( 7217 / 00 - c5-0216 / 2000 - 2000 / 0803 ( cns ) ) ( committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs ) ( parliament approved the initiative ) proposal for a council decision modifying decision 1999 / 311 / ec of 29 april 1999 adopting the third phase of the trans-european cooperation scheme for higher education ( tempus iii ) ( 2000-2006 ) ( com ( 2000 ) 0184 - c5-0231 / 2000 - 2000 / 0074 ( cns ) ) ( committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport ) ( parliament approved the commission proposal ) recommendation for 2nd reading ( a5-0153 / 2000 ) by mr beysen on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market on the european parliament legislative resolution on the common position adopted by the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council regulation amending council regulation ( eec ) no 3330 / 91 on the statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states , with specific reference to a simplified application of the nomenclature of products ( 14100 / 1 / 1999 c5 0134 / 2000 - 1997 / 0162 ( cod ) ) ( the president approved the common position ) report ( a5-0156 / 2000 ) by mr maaten , on behalf of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws , regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the manufacture , presentation and sale of tobacco products ( com ( 1999 ) 594 - c5 0016 / 2000 - 1999 / 0244 ( cod ) ) madam president , on behalf of my group , i would like to request that the vote on maaten report be postponed until july .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , this is surely an extremely important report on what is without doubt a serious issue .
i know that the tobacco industry lobby is most anxious to prevent this directive and i think that this request is yet another ploy to prevent a vote , which is clearly a matter of urgency , from taking place .
if we postpone our vote , the tobacco industry will gain even more time , since the council will then not be able to state its position until the end of june .
it is true that many amendments have been tabled and also that in future we will have to make efforts to improve our work so that fewer amendments are tabled in plenary .
on the proposal for a council directive amending directives 69 / 169 / eec and 92 / 12 / eec as regards temporary quantitative restrictions on beer imports into finland ( com ( 2000 ) 76 - c5-0137 / 2000 - 2000 / 0038 ( cns ) ) ii .
by the same token , and out of respect for the rule of law , i voted against the amendments which seek to cancel the additional part-sessions in brussels .
mr president , i voted not to work on fridays in strasbourg although i am totally in favour of our meeting here .
i would like to make the following point : we put in a lot of time but we work inefficiently and we produce relatively little compared with , for example , the italian parliament , which meets less often - it never votes on a monday and does not meet on fridays at all - yet produces at least 500 laws every year .
this time , they have tried to achieve their ends in a more subtle way , by cutting the duration of each ordinary part-session , without reducing their number .
in fact , in its judgement of 1 october 1997 , the court of justice made it quite clear that the edinburgh council decision of 12 december 1992 , which was taken to enforce article 216 of the treaty , and was furthermore elevated to the rank of protocol by the treaty of amsterdam , was as valid as the treaty and was therefore binding on the european parliament .
i should like to take this opportunity to remind you that , as i understand it , setting additional part-sessions in brussels a year in advance is not a practice that is in accordance with the treaty either .
the 1997 judgement states that " additional plenary part-sessions can only be set for another working location if the parliament holds the twelve ordinary part-sessions in strasbourg , which is the seat of the institution " .
i conclude from this that the european parliament does not have the right to set additional part-sessions more than a year in advance , as it currently does .
parliament would need to know if the ordinary part-sessions in strasbourg have been sufficient or insufficient to deal with matters pending .
i greatly hope that the french government will again refer the matter to the court of justice , as it did in 1995 .
such a decision would not only threaten the institutional balance that has nonetheless been accepted by all member states , but , even more seriously , it would threaten the ' certain concept of europe ' that strasbourg symbolises : that of a political europe that is reconciled and peaceful .
for who can deny that the creation of a single capital for a federal europe , which will have more than 500 million inhabitants in 10 years ' time , would be an aberration ?
the solution to this problem would be to concentrate parliament 's work at only one place .
the vast majority of members of the european parliament who voted for the removal of the friday sitting are pursuing a strategy whose aims are crystal clear : they wish to move more plenary sittings to brussels .
beysen recommendation ( a5-0153 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for the beyson report , but this is a classic example of what i was referring to in the vote on abolishing friday sittings .
at the same time , however , we feel sure that article 95 of the treaty , covering the harmonisation of rules for the internal market , on which this draft is based , is an improper legal basis .
article 152 of the treaty , which refers to public health , authorises the community to encourage cooperation between member states , but under no circumstances to adopt binding harmonisation measures , as such , as these are expressly rules out by paragraph 3 ( c ) .
in such circumstances , we are well aware that the commission , as is often the case , is currently using a praiseworthy cause - in this case , the anti-smoking campaign - in order to award itself new competencies , in spite of the wording of the treaties and with no thought for subsidiarity .
mr president , i am totally in favour of this report safeguarding citizens ' health , the health of both active and passive smokers .
all cigarettes are harmful .
if we choose tight protection for our citizens we should not allow the exporting of more dangerous products which profit from the addiction of others .
in voting in favour of this report , despite its shortcomings and particularly despite the hypocrisy of member states in their actions to limit smoking , we feel that we are making a stand , within the options available to us , against the right of tobacco cartels to poison the population for the sake of private profit .
the measures that are adopted should furthermore impose the same restrictions , at least on european tobacco companies , when they manufacture their products under licence , or sell their poison , in the countries of eastern europe , in africa or elsewhere .
the behaviour of tobacco companies , which runs completely counter to the interests of society as a whole , mirrors the behaviour of all the large oil , asbestos , arms and agrifood companies , which are prepared to run the risk of harming the population or the environment in order to make a little more profit .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the ban on any form of television advertising for cigarettes and other tobacco products in directive 89 / 552 and the more stringent labelling requirements for tobacco products introduced in this directive illustrate the ambivalent attitude of the european union towards tobacco .
the european union must set itself the task of pursuing policies which our citizens can understand .
if this contradiction cannot be resolved at community level , then the union must fight to help attain a high level of health protection by supporting a reduction in tobacco cultivation at international level .
mr president , i have voted decidedly in favour of the amended proposal and of the legislative resolution with regard to the new tobacco directive .
mr president , personally , i have never smoked and i am well aware of the dangers of smoking for the health of both the individual and of the public at large .
a legislator can prohibit or authorise , but should not make sermons in legislative texts , which is what we do here all the time .
more than half a million people died as a result of tobacco addiction in the eu in 1990 .
the greens want to ban many of the more than 600 additives in cigarettes .
if we take the example of the community 's approach to food safety legislation , whereby legislation is based on the principle that consumers have the right to know what they are consuming , then the same principle must apply to tobacco products : smokers should have the right to know exactly what they are smoking and what the effects are .
we therefore voted in favour of maintaining direct aid to income in the tobacco production sector within the european union , thereby guaranteeing greater compliance with community preference , in order to reduce the share of american multinationals in the tobacco consumption market and to protect the interests of portuguese farmers , without public health being endangered .
that is why i tabled an amendment with my colleagues to do the monitoring of health effects by the year 2002 instead of 2005 which was the initial proposal from the commission .
this proposal to change the timetable is also very important from the public health point of view .
i still think that even if the scientific data come as late as the year 2004 , this information will be very important for us members of the european parliament , when we create future legislation in the field of tobacco products . - ( de ) i was the rapporteur in this house for the common organisation of the raw tobacco market over 30 years ago .
things are as they are and we shall have to live with them , because tobacco farmers cannot reasonably be expected to be left standing out in the rain after 30 years ' common organisation of the raw tobacco market .
i supported amendment no 75 on banning the sale of tobacco products to anyone under the age of 16 .
on the basis of ethical considerations , too , i feel it is reasonable to ban exports of products that we consider to be harmful to our own citizens to countries outside the union .
i voted in the strongest possible terms against amendment no 54 .
europe has other assets and other creative ways of finding export markets .
during yesterday ' s debate , some members raised the point that smoking kills more people than tuberculosis , aids or other infectious diseases .
nobody questions the validity of its aims : smoking kills 500 000 people per year in the european union alone .
half of all long-term smokers will eventually be killed by tobacco and of these , half will die during middle age losing 20 to 25 years of life .
this legislation will spell out the dangers of smoking and save thousands of lives . - ( de ) i voted against an export ban on stronger cigarettes for the following reasons : the commission has proposed banning exports of cigarettes with yields of over 10 milligrammes of tar , 1 milligramme of nicotine and 10 milligrammes of carbon dioxide to third countries .
berenguer fuster report ( a5-0142 / 2000 ) mr president , i voted for this report on the exchange on information regarding , specifically , financial activities .
i feel that this directive should be extended to include this type of inspection .
i remember when , at the age of about 21 , i worked as part of the crew of a ship which travelled between new york and the bahamas : whenever i left the ship and ventured into new york city i was allowed to take two bottles of whisky with me , which , as i boarded the bus , would regularly be bought from me at three times the price , for whisky was much more expensive in new york .
therefore , this trade between one state and another which was caused by different levels of duties was only natural .
if we want to avoid it , we must remove all the excise duties in the european union .
according to that proposal , finland would reserve the right to abolish the more stringent restrictions on imports from eu countries in stages by the end of 2003 .
imports of beer from non-member countries such as russia and estonia would be limited to six litres up to the year 2006 .
under the treaty of amsterdam , internal market policy also has to take into account considerations of public health and environmental protection .
finland is in that way being granted the right to limit beer imports from third countries to six litres per traveller per day up until 1 january 2006 .
the commission might have shown similar insight in its treatment of the swedish derogations from 1994 concerning private imports of alcohol into sweden .
vidal-quadras roca report ( a5-0159 / 2000 ) mr president , i have to say that i was very surprised to find myself voting for this report , for it represents , perhaps , the surrender of the european union to one of the original communities out of which it grew , namely euratom : the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes .
let us remember that the commission proposed that it would finance this operation by using , at the end of each year , unspent appropriations from heading 3 .
this solution may be satisfactory insofar as it places financing outside the framework programmes for research , a point stressed by the european parliament , but it nevertheless falls short of what is required .
on the other hand , the most suitable solution is the one that seeks to have this programme financed by a self-contained budget line .
discussions were also held on reinforcing the role of non-governmental organisations in conducting all the policies and as privileged partners of the state in ensuring that the platform is implemented .
the basic problems concerned what the european union has already included in article 13 of the ec treaty and the difficulty which some countries had in accepting the issue of sexual rights and its inherent diversity and the issue of sexual orientation .
as some of you will know , she was unavoidably delayed by commitments which she had undertaken before the timing of this debate .
as honourable members will also know , she is coming to the committee next week in order to have a full exchange with members , many of whom will , of course , have shared in the success achieved last week .
i wish to begin , on behalf of the commission , by thanking the portuguese presidency for coordinating the member states ' positions so effectively and for handling the negotiations with other delegations so proficiently under what i understand were occasionally extremely difficult conditions .
the european union can be proud that it was the most progressive regional group represented at new york .
in a number of areas the outcome document goes far beyond what was achieved five years ago at beijing - a conference which i remember observing from slightly closer than would have been the case today .
we managed that without having to concede any watering down of the beijing platform in other areas .
the document reaffirms women 's rights as human rights .
it urges all un members to sign the cedaw optional protocol and calls for a strong awareness of gender issues in the workings of the international criminal court .
it recognises that discrimination against women is often compounded by discrimination on other grounds .
while we did not obtain specific references to all the grounds listed in the ec treaty , the presidency made the european union position clear in a final statement before the general assembly .
it seems to me , with some responsibilities in this field , inconceivable to have a sustainable model of economic development which does not have gender issues at its heart .
the document reaffirms the prime importance of education as a means of empowering girls and women .
lastly , we welcome the reference to men 's role in bringing about greater gender equality for they clearly have a considerable responsibility as well .
the effort is of course led by my colleague , commissioner diamantopoulou , but it is an endeavour in which all of us as commissioners wish to be fully involved .
there is also the problem of trafficking in women , rape of women during armed conflicts , etc .
firstly , as a european union , we should remain the driving force behind the member states .
but it is not only vis-a-vis our own member states that we have a role to play , we also have a responsibility towards the candidate countries , those which we as meps have brought together in new york .
and fruitful collaboration with non-governmental organisations also strengthened the position of the european union .
the fight against violence was put on every country ' s agenda .
i think the resolutions of parliament and our progress in the european union , parliament ' s progress , are now accessible to every country .
we came to the clear conclusion with our partners from associated countries that we need to work together more closely in order to promote women ' s rights .
we want to have a parliamentarians ' conference in two years to review beijing .
it is in our interest to fight for this .
women ' s human rights , the trade in women , violence against women , women ' s economic rights , the status of civil society : we may be pleased about the progress that has been made in all these issues .
it was especially gratifying for me that all the member states and almost all the candidate countries were talking together under portugal ' s leadership .
i believe this conference has given hope to all those millions of women who are without fundamental human rights ; and we need a further follow-up conference in five years ' time .
mr president , i should like to thank the presidency .
i should also like to thank mrs smet .
mr president , i would like to begin my speech by turning to the benches of this parliament and urging certain members to feel concerned at the lack of attention that our male colleagues pay to women ' s rights in this chamber , in which there are 30 women for 5 men .
i wonder if , bearing this figure in mind , we really had the right to lecture people in new york and to advocate women ' s rights in such a vigorous way .
after this introduction , with which i am sure almost everyone will agree , i shall say a few things that certain members present will be less pleased to hear .
for a union delegation to experience only two problems is quite reasonable , but they are crucial ones .
the first concerns the tendency of delegations to speak on behalf of our parliament .
in fact , the legislative body can express its will only through its votes and no delegate from our assembly has the right to speak on its behalf : they are only entitled to speak on their own behalf and they are only delegates from the point of view of protocol .
this threat also involved insults being made .
education is still the most effective instrument for ensuring that women can freely exercise their rights and for allowing greater access to positions of responsibility , both in the workplace and in public life .
knowledge of new technologies has been considered to be of great importance in terms of allowing full participation in the society of the future .
women ' s health is one of the priorities of the meeting ' s final document , with special mention of the spread of aids , especially in certain areas of the planet , which affects women in a particular way and requires special measures for prevention and treatment .
globalisation has generated new problems which particularly affect women , such as trafficking in human beings , prostitution and drug-trafficking , which should be combated so that women may live a dignified and free life in conditions of equality .
all these objectives must be achieved in the next few years and , in order to ensure they are complied with , we are requesting a new meeting within the next five years .
the fifth programme for equality promoted by the european commission must serve to promote the position of women , to eliminate the remaining inequalities , integrating gender policies into all community programmes .
this meeting has therefore been of enormous importance in terms of making progress in the situation of women in all parts of the world .
the european union ' s position , given that it has a higher level of development and , therefore , better conditions for women , must not allow us to forget the situation of women in other areas , where daily hardships are combined with malnutrition , extreme poverty and a complete lack of respect for their fundamental rights .
a small group of catholic and islamic fundamentalist countries clearly intended to undermine the progress achieved by women from around the world in beijing five years ago .
these issues united certain islamic and catholic countries ranging all the way from the sudan , iran and libya to the vatican , nicaragua and poland , which were prime movers in the fight against these rights .
on the issues of rape within marriage , right of possession and right of inheritance , together with the right to asylum on the grounds of gender-based persecution , the wordings have been strengthened .
it is especially important that all candidate states , including poland , undertake to abide by the eu ' s policy on women ' s rights .
i welcome the positive contribution made by europe to forging closer relationships with other countries and the ngos .
mr president , the very positive assessment that we are making today of the meeting in new york , should not allow us to forget that there have been serious deficiencies and great hypocrisy , even within the european union , which make me want to double my efforts from now on .
it has been demonstrated that , compared to men doing the same work , women receive 50 or up to 80 per cent less .
i wonder if the portuguese presidency , before the end of its mandate , could make a recommendation in this respect .
mr president , the european parliament ' s delegation played a magnificent role with regard to the candidate countries .
you were not in new york , but i was .
it has already been said many times : the work carried out by the un and in new york has demonstrated clearly that some progress has been made since beijing .
the need has become clear for governments to include a gender aspect in all government policies , from employment to development , from social policies to the fight against violence .
therefore , we need to focus on clear policies which fight the social exclusion of women and consolidate their role as active protagonists of political change and economic development .
actual equality and freedom for women is only possible if all options are open to them and if the traditional family image is not held up to them as the only true one .
the fight goes on .
the european union and member state representatives showed great commitment during the conference to the issue of sexual self-determination for women and the non-discrimination principle pursuant to article 13 .
the fact that this did not end up in the final document should not be a reflection on them .
article 13 offers the opportunity to do so and the beijing + 5 conference issued an instruction to this effect .
many friends and women who are colleagues in this parliament have just pointed out that my name appears as one of those who signed against women 's rights .
president-in-office , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i am sure you will understand the pride i feel as a portuguese national at the general acclaim for the portuguese presidency ' s excellent work in promoting equal rights for women during its term and particularly with regard to the special un conference on beijing + 5 .
the conferences on violence against women , trafficking of women and reconciling family and professional life , together with the un conference on beijing + 5 , are clear examples of the portuguese presidency ' s involvement in this area .
finally , i must say that the european union has a decisive role to play in this issue .
europe must continue to be the driving force in developments in this area .
these must be achieved through cooperation , particularly with all like-minded countries , some of which , like canada , are totally committed to the presidency ' s statement presented at the end of the special conference .
we must take advantage of all these opportunities .
these developments must also be achieved through benchmarking processes and by using the conclusions of the lisbon special summit , which considered that in europe there could be no economic development without social cohesion .
the debate is closed .
in fact , the members of the european parliament who were in new york as part of the european union delegation , which comprised 15 people with observer status , were not allowed to speak because , in accordance with the un ' s procedure for extraordinary general assemblies , the portuguese presidency spoke on behalf of the european union .
even in the working parties , we were not allowed to take the floor , which was always given to the portuguese presidency .
in no instance did we speak in an official capacity , still less on behalf of this parliament , although we did have some useful discussions with the commission and the council , with members of the parliaments of member states and associated states , who allowed us to convey our views .
what were banned from these meetings were the positions that parliament adopted under the smet / groner report , and nothing else .
you may hear my explanation of vote tomorrow , mr president , if you are going to cut me off .
mrs lulling , we have already heard speeches on the matter from the president of the council and from the commissioner on the subject of poland .
next , having heard what most of the speakers said on the issue of poland , i am left in no doubt as to many of the things said in corridors and about the pressure of which i was informed , which was brought to bear on the representatives of poland , a free state .
to conclude , i have heard many things said about the vatican , but i can see that jesuitical thinking , at least , has truly pervaded the european parliament .
mr varaut , we cannot base our debates on corridor conversations .
mr president , i should like first of all to welcome moncef marzouhi , spokesman for the national council for liberties in tunisia , and khemmais ksila , from the tunisian league for human rights , who are present in this chamber .
what we wish to do is open people ' s eyes to the hidden reality of tunisia and to shoulder the responsibilities that are incumbent on the european union , which is linked to that country by an association agreement that was signed five years ago now .
the hunger strike by the journalist taoufik ben brik lifted a corner of the veil that conceals the lack of press freedom and the persecution of the men and women with alternative views to those of the regime of president ben ali .
no , tunisia is not the smiling land trumpeted in the advertisements aimed at the 4 million european tourists who go there every year .
tunisia also comprises militants fighting for human rights , women fighting for democracy , students who are spied on , harassed , and deprived of their telephones , passports , sometimes even of the freedom to travel within tunisian territory .
nourredine was tortured and kept in prison for more than 20 months simply for having organised a strike at the university .
fortunately , in the last few weeks , several prisoners have been released and passports have been returned .
let us therefore not weaken in our support for those who are taking action to condemn a police state .
i urge all honourable members to vote in favour of the compromise resolution and i particularly urge the council and the commission to implement all the methods provided for in the agreement to ensure that democratic freedoms are respected , by involving civil society and preparing if needs be , for this agreement to be suspended .
the partnership proposed by the european union , which is essentially based on free trade , is liable to exacerbate the harmful effects on the population to the extent that , as the parliamentary delegation for relations with the maghreb noted , the association agreement is considered to be harmful by all tunisian organisations , in both the public and the private sectors .
mr president , commissioner patten , mr da costa , we are approaching this debate , as we approached the questions we put to the council and the commission , aware of the responsibility entailed in our partnership relationship with tunisia , which we consider will be decisive for the success of the entire euro-mediterranean partnership .
in fact , tunisia is the first country with which the european union signed an association agreement within the context of the 1995 barcelona process .
however , in all honesty , i must also say that we are extremely concerned about the human rights situation in this country , particularly because we are convinced that , given the socio-economic and cultural context involved , there is the possibility for substantial improvement in the degree of freedom of the press , of speech , of association and of movement , conditions in prisons and the autonomous exercising of justice , so that the country can move towards full expression of the rule of law .
not only muslim fundamentalists , but all political opponents are systematically silenced .
tunisia has concluded an association agreement with the european union which contains a clear human rights clause .
the fact that democracy and the rule of law form an essential integral part of our association with tunisia means , quite simply , that there can be no genuine association without democracy .
all those , like myself , who are working for a closer partnership , for a fair association and for lasting cooperation are faced with a difficult challenge : to put democratic flesh on the bones of an agreement signed with a regime which proclaims it in theory but declaims against it in practice .
it has taken us four years to hold this debate , four years , because the socialist group and the european people ' s group have blocked this debate for four years .
we concluded this model agreement with the country which seemed to have all the right assets to take the great leap forwards into democracy and the rule of law .
an extraordinary association council meeting must be held in order to put an end to this situation and finally to do something to help , to be tunisians ourselves .
this is the message which this house must send to the tunisian authorities , who must receive them in the positive light in which they are intended .
to this end , within the framework of euro-mediterranean cooperation , the commission , the council and parliament must not go into reverse with regard to the aid programmes which must be implemented within the framework of meda ii .
education and training in democratic principles are a fundamental element of sustaining a plural and democratic society .
it also concerns me that commissioner patten , who is present , is not sufficiently sensitive to the serious problems currently faced on the southern side of the mediterranean , where tunisia plays a very important role .
in any event - and this could serve as a summary of the debate - we cannot restrict our cooperation with third countries to purely trade and economic issues .
to this end , we also ask tunisia , together with economic reforms , also to make progress with political reforms aimed at guaranteeing freedoms , but with the aid and cooperation which , of course , they receive and will continue to receive from us , at least from my group .
we also believe that we need a common strategy in the mediterranean , as the resolution states , and that , together with political , social and security aspects , special attention is paid to the cultural and human dimension .
this is why we need to strengthen the interparliamentary dialogue and the dialogue with the representatives of civil society .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , when we start to examine an issue like this we should remind ourselves of the european union ' s general attitude to its external relations .
the eu has a set of values and principles which it naturally tries to promote in its relations and which it tries to use in all areas of its associations with third countries .
human rights issues are frequently discussed , as the speakers have noted , within the political dialogue which the council is conducting with tunisia within the association council and through the heads of mission of the member states in tunis who have regular meetings with the relevant tunisian government officials in this area .
however , the council prefers to use the opportunities for influencing the tunisian authorities more discreetly , and perhaps more effectively , by maintaining constructive pressure on them through political dialogue and various meetings at different levels .
we cannot ignore , and it would be politically incorrect to so do , the gestures of openness already made by tunisia , particularly in freeing 600 political prisoners , returning passports to certain members of the opposition and being clearly willing to reduce tensions in the case of the journalist , taouffik ben brick , and accepting his specific claims .
finally , in the barcelona declaration , tunisia , like the other mediterranean partner countries , signed up to certain principles involving respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
within the eu-mediterranean framework and in reinforcing this framework as we are trying to do at the moment in close cooperation with the european commission , we are also insisting on the importance of actively promoting the rule of law and the good management of public affairs which constitutes a key area in the dialogue between the two sides of the mediterranean .
to conclude , i must assure you that the council remains committed to promoting and reinforcing in tunisia , as in other countries with which the eu maintains relations , respect for human rights , democratic principles and fundamental freedoms , and to establishing a true democracy with an open civil society based on a rule of law .
i want to make it clear that the commission shares the view of the un special rapporteur who states in his report to the commission on human rights that : " tunisia still has a long way to go to take full advantage of its favourable economic context and adopt measures designed to strengthen the protection of human rights and , in particular , the right to freedom of opinion and expression . "
this is best done by looking at the three main instruments provided by the association agreement linking the european union to tunisia .
the first , to which my colleague referred , is political dialogue .
the union has made a point of addressing the human rights issues in tunisia in our many contacts with the tunisian authorities .
the meda programme for democracy , on which parliament has strong and positive views , has financed training , information and awareness-raising projects for ngos and for public opinion in this field .
i will keep parliament informed of developments in all these areas .
others could have referred , for example , to the position of tunisia on the sharia law .
it is best at the moment to proceed by dialogue but , as the house will understand , i do not equate dialogue with being supine .
that can be expressed firmly but courteously , as parliament is doing today .
i just want to make it clear to the honourable member that my commitment to making this policy a success is total .
it is not about creating hub economies which will make europeans more prosperous : it is about working in partnership with mediterranean countries in a partnership of values as well as trade , for the good of people to the south of the mediterranean as well as those of us in europe .
it is an enormously important part of europe 's endeavours over the next few years ; as important , in some ways in projecting stability , as the whole process of enlargement .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , today ' s debate enables us to stand back a little from the events in tunisia of the last few weeks , and gain some perspective , particularly with regard to what has become known as the ben brik affair .
tunisia is not being treated differently in any way .
this message of hope is founded , in part , upon the economic and social achievements that we have seen tunisia make .
we must , however , also respect our commitments and our convictions , and i think that we would be doing tunisians a favour by convincing them that our parliament will always pay close attention to developments in the political situation and in civil society in their country , regardless of the good economic results that may have been achieved .
we must also persuade all of our mediterranean partners that the commitments which they have given through taking part in the barcelona process , specifically in the field of democracy and human rights , are not negotiable .
finally , then , i would urge all members to staunchly support the motion for a resolution that we have tabled today , which , i think , provides a balanced picture of parliament ' s views on the situation in tunisia .
i believe that this is a useful question to ask , because only by understanding as accurately as possible what is happening in tunisia and the challenges faced by that country , will we be able to find the tone of moderation and effectiveness which we must develop within the framework of cooperation .
it is a country which is , and has been , in the forefront of the association agreements and the agro-mediterranean policy , and which has signed all the international conventions on human rights but where , nevertheless , time and time again problems arise relating to human rights which are exaggerated by sections of the european media .
i have spent fifteen years of my life without a passport or driving licence .
only by ensuring that we are not in a situation where the council is giving less priority to the mediterranean , the commission is hindering the implementation of programmes and the european parliament is simply giving lectures , will we be able to find the tone and effectiveness of a policy which will help the future of tunisia , in friendship and solidarity , towards a situation which brings both socio-economic growth and full democratisation .
mr president , the liberal group obviously endorses the text as tabled in full .
paragraph 11 of the motion for a resolution suggests that we will be entrusting our parliamentary delegation with the task of studying the situation .
mr president , we have had to wait until the end of this parliamentary term for the truth to finally break out in the european parliament .
the extremely severe legal restrictions on the right to strike have been made even harsher by the current leadership .
for a strike to be legal in tunisia , the executive of the gutw now has to give its approval .
amongst these , we wish to mention abdeljalil bedoui , ali romdhane , abdelmajid sahraoui , abdennour maddahi , hamed bennjima , noureddine ounissa , chaker ben hassine , and many others .
ben ali ' s regime is exercising tight control over the whole world of labour .
the report by the national council for liberties in tunisia estimates the number of policemen at 130 000 for a population of 9.5 million inhabitants .
tunisia is actually the first country in the maghreb to have signed an agreement with the european union , and everyone recognises the progress that tunisia has made in adapting its economy and its social fabric to the modernisation required by its links with the european union and , unfortunately , by acceleration due to liberalisation through globalisation .
the present tunisian regime does not tolerate any independent minds .
mr president , i too should also like to express my great concern at the deteriorating human rights situation in tunisia , a concern that is actively shared by all friends of that country .
this agreement contains a clause which calls for human rights to be respected , with suspensive effect and provides for political dialogue .
i certainly prefer political dialogue to unilateral sanctions , but , for this very reason , it is our duty to tell our partners that we are extremely concerned about the situation in tunisia .
there has been a ben brik effect , which goes beyond his individual case and in three months , we have seen a whole civil society , which has demonstrated its determination to end the police state , suddenly gain a new dignity .
the first is to continue to refuse to accept the reality of the situation in line with the principle - quite common in this type of regime - of insisting that everything is fine until the final moment , with civil society having to suffer a new wave of repression and to face up to it with courage and determination .
the tunisian government can also , however , choose the path of dialogue with civil society , in order to decrease tensions and to negotiate a way of pulling tunisia out of this impasse and to lead it towards democracy .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the situation in tunisia must be seen in the wider context of the mediterranean and the countries of north africa with which the european union is interested in maintaining dialogue regarding its peace and stability programmes .
it is therefore to be hoped that the eu-tunisia association council will assume the responsibility of continuously monitoring the human rights situation in tunisia by means of a joint action carried out together with the equivalent tunisian representatives , and that it will create a joint system to monitor the issue which can only bring social improvements to the human rights situation in tunisia .
mr president , human rights are being infringed .
i saw that they are attempting to boost their economy in order to avoid further migration which could certainly affect relations between the mediterranean countries and the countries which are now part of the same european union as well .
no , we are talking , as commissioner patten has stressed again and again , about critical dialogue based on the agreements which we have signed with tunisia .
we are talking about creating a common area of security , stability and peace , and that includes democracy , that includes respect for human rights , that includes freedom of the press .
tunisia keeps saying that it is a question of economic and social development .
but this totally positive economic and social development in tunisia is precisely the best basis for developing democracy still further and fighting the fight against extremism on democratic soil .
one last comment : we want to help tunisia , about that there can be no doubt .
first , to say that , speaking for the commission , we very much hope to bring forward proposals in the next few months - or weeks , if we can manage it - for revitalising the barcelona process , a contribution to the debate about how that can be done five years after the original agreement .
thank you , commissioner patten .
i have received six motions for resolutions in accordance with rule 40 ( 5 ) .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
secondly , this agreement is positive because it brings with it economic , social , environmental and also geopolitical advantages for china and the world in general , especially the european union .
what seems particularly positive to us is the opening up achieved in the field of financial services , telecommunications and insurance , which will offer opportunities , with no doubt whatsoever , to our economic operators , and also the gradual opening up of the energy markets in china which , apart from certain economic benefits , will lead to greater compliance with environmental standards in that country .
therefore , we also fully support the commission and council initiative to relaunch the round , which was frustrated at the outset in seattle , as soon as possible , turning it into a global round .
the other question is as follows : we have worked very well with the commission and the council throughout this process and we intend to continue to do so .
furthermore , we will all gain in terms of democratic legitimacy with this important agreement , since , i do not need to stress , it is laid down that in important agreements parliament has a decisive role to play .
mr president , the conclusion on 19 may of the bilateral agreement on access to the market in goods and services between the european union and the people ' s republic of china constituted , as we must all recognise , an important step in the process of china ' s accession to the world trade organisation which , incidentally , has now been operating for 14 years .
mr westendorp y cabeza mentioned the size of the chinese population and market and the importance which this will have in terms of the internal balance of the wto .
only at the end of this process will china ' s accession be placed on the agenda of a general council meeting for approval by the wto members , assuming that these have , in the meantime , carried out the internal procedures required for this purpose .
at community level , this issue must still be discussed by the member states as the process usually followed and known as the ad hoc ecuador process is proving to be too tacit and , as such , is incompatible with the political and economic weight of china and with the specific importance of this particular case .
the european union will have to give its clear and explicit assent to china ' s accession to the wto and the council must decide on the overall accession package which must also be submitted to parliament for an opinion .
as for cooperation and technical assistance actions , we have seen that , despite the problems noted throughout this negotiating process , china has proven its commitment to the multilateral process and has even prioritised this in certain regional choices .
first , i should like to endorse in the most glowing terms possible the encomium that he delivered to my colleague , commissioner lamy , for the way he conducted these negotiations .
i have had some experience of negotiating with china myself and i have to say that i am lost in admiration for commissioner lamy 's achievement .
i should like , as he did with characteristic generosity , to say that all of us should also pay tribute to his predecessor , sir leon brittan , who helped to get these negotiations up and running , even though they had to travel several more laps than he thought likely at the time .
second , i entirely agree with what the honourable member said about the importance of the outcome of these negotiations .
this agreement is very good for china and europe ; it is good for the asian region and for the world and , as we saw , it almost certainly had a beneficial effect on the vote in the us congress .
it will be a challenge for china and , in due course , for the wto .
commissioner lamy has already had an opportunity to set out in the plenary of this house in march the view of the commission that china 's wto accession is a trade agreement of major importance and , therefore , that it is exactly the type of agreement that would be submitted for parliament 's assent , were the commission proposals for the igc to be accepted .
on a more political and pragmatic level , i can assure the house that the commission will work with the european parliament to ensure that it can make its voice heard .
the house will know that , in exemplary fashion , commissioner lamy has held several rounds of discussions with members of this parliament during the final phases of the negotiations with china .
the multilateral phase of china 's accession that takes place in geneva has still to be finalised .
second , i want to come to the extremely important point which the honourable member raised about technical assistance to help china to implement its wto obligations .
we have in the commission five cooperation programmes in china , which total eur 25 million .
china 's wto accession and the related considerable needs for technical assistance are likely to generate significant interest from other donors , including the united states and japan , but also from our own member states and from the wto secretariat .
clearly , close coordination is going to be essential in order to avoid overlaps and to develop synergies between different programmes which each donor will implement in accordance with its own procedures .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , china was yet another of our trading partners to realise during negotiations in beijing that the european union has specific , independent weight as a major global trading area .
the commission represented coherent positions on the part of the european union with the support of the european parliament and the council of ministers and implemented many of them .
competition and the reciprocal opening of markets , freedom of establishment and in the provision of services , intellectual property rights , environmental protection and partnership for sustainable development are just a few examples .
for the rest , our position is based on the principles of free and fair global trade and is shaped by the european model of a social , ecological market economy , many fundamental points of which are already included in european framework legislation .
but integrating china into world trade also means ensuring that it is in a position to respect and apply the rules of the world trade organisation , act as a responsible partner and take on new responsibilities .
on behalf of the ppe group , therefore , i welcome the successful outcome of negotiations with china and call on the council to put this result in political order so that the european parliament is able to adopt this important decision .
i am sure that it is in the minds of all the honourable members who have spoken and i believe that it is my group ' s opinion , that we should use this opening and the integration of china into the world trade organisation to help it make a quantum leap .
firstly i would like to join in the warm congratulations to commissioner lamy and indeed his distinguished predecessor sir leon , now lord , brittan .
i have to confess i get the impression that there is a certain degree of institutional territoriality here , particularly in the large member states , where the trade and industry ministries are very reluctant to see the commission continue to extend its scope in those new areas in wto trade negotiations and , consistent with that , also reluctant to see the european parliament increase its influence .
it is great that we are going to coordinate with the americans , but look at the numbers : eur 25 million is absolutely nothing in comparison to the challenge we face !
we have a total budget for china of eur 80 million .
i hope the fact that we have signed up to this bilateral deal with the chinese does not leave them thinking that we are going to be any more forgiving on human rights .
it is all the more important that all three institutions should now be particularly robust about the way the chinese behave in the so-called dialogue on human rights .
in terms of improving the rule of law , in terms of strengthening democracy or in terms of respect for human rights , we have made no progress in ten years , none at all !
i think that the members who have spoken about human rights are well aware , as we all are , particularly having heard commissioner brittan over the last few years , that there has never been any question of linking human rights and democracy to the wto agreements .
mr president , i , too , would like to congratulate commissioner lamy on securing such improved terms and a deal with china .
after such a long history of negotiations clearly all that was needed was the question from our committee to push the matter to a conclusion .
i would have referred to commissioner patten knowing well the difficulties of dealing and negotiating with china , but he has already mentioned that .
i welcome this step in the further integration of china into the world economy but we must recall the emphasis that we , in the european union , place upon other values in addition to trade .
in that context i would like to call , on behalf of my british conservative colleagues , for european parliament participation in the half-yearly dialogue on human rights .
if this parliament were part of that dialogue we might exert additional pressure for improvement in that field .
mr president , while international big business is busy popping champagne corks in celebration of the agreement on china 's proposed accession to the wto , china 's small-scale farmers are already quaking in their shoes .
there are many people in china for whom this agreement does not spell good news .
but while cargill is so delighted that its profits will rise while chinese self-sufficiency in agricultural goods falls , the picture is a good deal less optimistic for the people of china themselves .
the commission is offering technical support to the chinese in order to help them with the enormous economic restructuring which accession to the wto will bring .
mr lamy has been quoted as saying that the bilateral negotiations between the eu and china yielded 96 % of what the eu was demanding .
one of the biggest and politically most difficult of these has been china ' s accession to the wto , and this same problem will again be associated with the implementation of the agreement in practice .
i wish to put forward a proposal that might relieve pressure on the end of today 's agenda , namely , the debate previewed for the late payments directive - the report of the conciliation procedure with the council .
the rapporteur , the shadow rapporteur and the chairman of the committee would all support a suggestion that this be turned into a vote without debate .
that would end pressure on the agenda right at the end of this evening .
but we take very good note of this proposal .
mr president , the size of the community budget is a general issue which has been addressed periodically , particularly within the wider debate on the future financing of the european union prior to the negotiations on the eu financial frameworks .
within the interinstitutional agreement reached on 6 may 1999 on budgetary discipline and improving the budgetary procedure , of which the financial perspectives are an integral part , you will remember that amounts were established which represent an annual maximum limit on expenditure for the european parliament , council and commission .
with regard to expenditure arising from enlargement , the aforementioned agreement specifies that , in the event of enlargement of the eu to include new member states during the period covered by the financial perspectives , the european parliament and the council , deliberating on a commission proposal , will jointly adopt financial perspectives taking into account the need for expenditure arising from this enlargement .
however , this alteration of the financial perspectives must respect the maximum limits contained in the guidelines on the financial perspectives for an enlarged union with 21 member states , as indicated in annex ii to the interinstitutional agreement .
i should like to thank the minister for answering the question which i tabled , but i think that he has not answered the specific issue which i raised , which is this : in the year in which i have been an mep , i have noticed that , although the number of eu programmes and initiatives is multiplying continuously , implying new , additional spending , no additional resources are being budgeted for them .
on the contrary , resources budgeted for other commitments are usually cut back ; this happened , for example , in order to find money for kosovo and for developing the balkans , for the earthquakes and for other issues which have arisen .
however , if the situation worsens to the extent that some of the commitments made by the european union cannot be kept in accordance with the financial perspectives , then this mid-term revision may clearly occur , as specified in the financial perspectives and for the first time by qualified majority voting .
however , given that we are currently in the first year of implementing the financial perspectives , there is no reason at the moment to justify any reassessment of the commitment made in berlin .
the committee on budgets and the european parliament agreed in the end in agenda 2000 to reduce the 1.27 % proportion of gdp by 2006 .
as the author is not present , question no 2 lapses .
mr president , negotiations within the ospar commission on issues coming under the community competence are conducted , as you know , by the commission in consultation with a committee of representatives of the member states .
the council would analyse this proposal with due care .
i know that the portuguese presidency is very familiar with this issue .
as you know , the ospar commission met in sintra two years ago and some progress was made on pollution of the marine environment .
my question pertains particularly to radioactive emissions .
given that the council as such is not a member of the ospar commission , only the european commission can adopt a legislative measure in this respect .
in principle this does not come under the community competence but is the exclusive competence of the national authorities and in particular , as stated by the member in his own question , of the greek high authority for data protection .
i thank the president-in-office , although i noticed that he contradicted himself in his reply .
the problem lies in determining whether or not , at this stage of the process , this reference constitutes an infringement of community law .
therefore , at this stage , this issue does not have a community dimension .
question no 5 by ( h-0450 / 00 ) : subject : turkey disputes the sovereign rights of greek islands in the aegean prompted by the nato exercise ' dynamic mix ' , turkey has put the spotlight back on its long-standing dispute concerning the established regime of greek sovereignty over islets and island rocks in the aegean .
mr president , the council does not have any information , rumours aside , on any representations made by turkey to the greek government on 10 may 2000 .
it should be recalled in this respect , as this is also extremely positive , that turkish troops participated in the nato exercise which took place in part on greek territory .
turkish troops have never before participated in exercises on greek territory .
the council notes that the greek defence minister described the cooperation between greece and the turkish armed forces as excellent and added that the exercises were carried out with full respect for all the sovereign rights of greece .
we must all cooperate , in all bodies and in all areas in which these issues are raised , to ensure that tensions are not heightened in any way and to eliminate the ghosts of the past in this respect .
minister , i too am personally in favour of closer relations between greece and turkey , but subject to certain specific conditions .
it feels that turkey can proceed unimpeded on its path towards the european union , violating greek sovereignty all the while .
mr hatzidakis , in my opinion helsinki represented a moment of great balance in terms of the concerns of those involved , namely greece , turkey and also cyprus as a third party .
for greece , as far as turkey is concerned , there is only one issue which needs to be settled and that is the boundaries of the continental shelf in the aegean .
we should allow some time for this process to develop before becoming involved in any potential conflicts .
i must remind you that the european union is the largest donor of aid to rehabilitation projects in south ossetia and is ready to support measures aimed at creating a climate of confidence , particularly by rebuilding the north-south infrastructures which connect russia to georgia .
the council supports all the efforts made by the competent international bodies , particularly the osce in south ossetia and the un in abkhazia , with the aim of contributing to acceptable solutions which can return the political and economic relations to normal and ensure the return of the refugees under safe conditions .
mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou , with regard to the measures which the european union can adopt in this area , i can only point to the plan mentioned and the set of initiatives which the eu has introduced on the ground .
you should remember that we have a limited capacity for intervention in certain areas and that , as was said today in other respects , the difficulties in the eu ' s external action framework and the financing of this framework limit the eu ' s capacity to be present in all conflict situations .
however , given the strategic importance of the area , the european union has been doing whatever it considers possible in this respect .
i agree that other measures may be possible but there is not currently a framework of financing which would allow us to go further , particularly in terms of acting to reinforce the infrastructures .
at every opportunity and at various levels , the european union has reminded egypt of its concern about the human rights situation and about the need for egypt to respect fundamental freedoms , particularly given its status as a member of the eu-mediterranean partnership .
the negotiations on the association agreement with egypt were concluded last year and it is envisaged that this will shortly be signed .
once in force , this agreement will turn the political dialogue between the european union and egypt into an institutional matter , especially in the area of human rights , which will naturally enable greater intervention and more scope for political pressure in respect of anything which may be regarded as non-compliance by egypt with its obligations under this agreement .
in this context , we will of course continue to remind egypt , as we have done prior to the establishment of this legally binding framework , of its responsibilities and , in particular , of the need to respect human rights and to preserve fundamental freedoms .
the president-in-office said in his reply that the council will remind the egyptians of their responsibilities and wait until they have signed the association agreement and can bring an institutionalised political dialogue to bear .
this issue has been addressed in the bilateral political dialogue and has naturally been raised within the normal framework of relations between the european union and third countries .
in this particular case we believe that the agreement has its own negotiating context and it would not be right , after the agreement has been approved by the european union and agreed by the council , to make its final signing dependent on the resolution of an issue , however important this may be , which is only one part of the whole picture .
i can only agree with the honourable member when he says that there are situations in other countries in the southern mediterranean which seem more serious than this issue .
it is practically impossible for the european union to constantly monitor all situations in all the countries with which we have a relationship within the euro-mediterranean partnership .
within the common foreign and security policy and particularly bearing in mind the assessment being made , especially in the framework of our political dialogue within the association agreements , we continue trying to highlight our concern about the gravity of various situations .
i also agree that there are much worse situations in other countries within the barcelona process , some of which perhaps do not occur to us when we are speaking , which must also be duly assessed .
however , the european union cannot be expected to do the work of the international institutions in this area .
question no 8 by ( h-0457 / 00 ) : subject : significance of euro-11 will the council say on what issues euro-11 has , since coming into existence , taken decisions that have been of political significance to the european union and its member states ?
these meetings are held monthly and before the formal meetings of ecofin which involve all fifteen member states .
euro 11 meetings essentially address issues relating to the specific responsibilities which the eleven countries share in matters involving the single currency .
in all cases where decisions must be taken , ecofin takes these in accordance with the procedures established in the treaty .
there are currently no elements of policy coordination between the countries in euro 11 which naturally affect or should affect their behaviour in ecofin .
however , it makes perfect sense that countries which are part of an effective policy model and which are involved in implementing policies involving , for example , the single currency framework can separately define and coordinate a position .
for a country such as the honourable member ' s perhaps the problem will be solved by being part of the euro council .
what cannot be avoided is that the coordination of the policies of the euro 11 countries , particularly on the single currency , and the effect that these policies have on the overall context of the eu ' s economic and financial policy do not appear to be linked to the eu ' s own coordination .
i know of several cases in which government sectors of eu countries meeting at council level have talked separately and coordinated their positions so that these appear linked in the institutional contexts of the union .
that is true in that case but in the case of euro 11 this is institutionalised in the treaty and it is this which is specified .
i do not see any disadvantage in the existence of various levels of coordination , particularly when these are institutionalised in the treaty itself .
in accordance with the basic regulation of the common fisheries policy , the member states , having notified the commission , may exchange all or part of their fishing quotas .
we therefore cannot find any council document which refers to the exchange of notes between belgium and the united kingdom given that , under community legislation , it is member states which are responsible for deciding this by mutual agreement and given that this does not require approval by the council .
maybe you can slide out of this example and say it is a member state talking to the commission and they send them a letter .
i do not feel that this is a negative practice on the part of the council as we are actually working in line with the provisions of the treaty .
the member states are responsible for assessing the specific projects to be financed by the world bank .
with regard to projects for tibet financed by the european union through its cooperation programme , the eu ' s position is that these projects must benefit native tibetans .
if europe does not stand for human rights then i do not know what it does stand for .
the british government has not yet withdrawn its support and all i ask the president-in-office to do is to remind all member state governments on the council - including britain - that they must not endorse or be seen to endorse illegal acts and abuses of human rights and national rights against the people and the nation of tibet .
the last round which took place in lisbon on 25 february was preceded by a demarche with the chinese authorities which included the problem of human rights in tibet .
no definitive decision has been made within the european union on tackling the basic issue and this is a point which must be raised openly .
in the case of egypt , as has already been said , we have the european-mediterranean programmes and association agreements .
moreover , a 1999 decision of the schengen executive committee approved a mutual aid project for the exchange of officials to give assistance and advice in carrying out security and control tasks at external borders .
in terms of addressing the deep-rooted reasons for people wanting to escape and emigrate from certain african countries , we can refer to the action plan for morocco approved in the council in october 1999 .
this action plan is one of a set of five , each containing an exhaustive and coherent approach focused on the existing situation in a country of origin or transit of asylum-seekers which is regarded as being important .
for each country selected , the action plan presents a balanced combination of options which the european union offers in terms of foreign affairs , development and humanitarian and economic assistance .
in the action plan for morocco , which specifically covers the situation referred to by the honourable member , this country is regarded as a country of origin and transit for economic migration to the european countries .
the measures recommended in this action plan include using existing channels and improving information-gathering , distributing correct information on immigration , creating strategies for combating illegal trafficking and promoting measures intended to apply the readmission agreements .
this requires greater coherence in the internal and external policies of the union which are the responsibility of both the eu and the member states .
partnership with third countries also constitutes a key element in the success of this policy .
the eu is aware that , in order to implement the action plan for morocco , partnership and cooperation with the moroccan authorities will be needed .
in this context , in june of last year , a mission to morocco took place before the action plan was finalised in order to establish a dialogue with the moroccan authorities .
the consolidation of the action plan for morocco is clearly a long-term strategy but it is through the dialogue now under way in this context and on the association council that progress will be made .
as for the possibility of us periodically carrying out a quantitative assessment of these incidents , i believe that the spanish authorities may be able to provide the necessary information in this respect .
we must all realise that the european union has a set of policies which it aims to implement and that these policies involve strategic choices .
we must realise that , in their bilateral relations with morocco , the spanish authorities are currently responsible for solving part of the problem .
the european union is generally involved in a series of projects , in the context of its relations with the southern mediterranean countries , which include projects for development , population settlement and guarantees of improved economic conditions .
question no 12 by ( h-0466 / 00 ) : subject : decision concerning deployment of eu military personnel the decision to strengthen eu emergency forces for crisis management has raised the question of the legal basis for the deployment of eu military personnel .
according to the swedish government 's interpretation of the decision taken at cologne in 1999 , a relevant un security council resolution has to have been adopted .
the need to respect the principles of the un charter and the charter for european security is clearly recognised , so much so that the report to be presented by the portuguese presidency to the feira european council next monday stresses the fact that , in the area of crisis management and conflict prevention , the european union must establish close cooperation with the united nations , the osce and the council of europe .
therefore , only in the latter , for which the use of military force is required , is the existence of a un security council resolution considered necessary .
i should first of all like to know whether the swedish government has informed its colleagues in the council as to whether it is planned to use the veto in the event of an eu action , that is to say an eu military action , being taken in the absence of a decision in the un ' s security council .
some are purely humanitarian , for example rescue tasks .
do you really think that we need to have a un security council resolution in order to carry out a rescue task in a serious humanitarian situation ?
as for the other tasks , we only have to comply with the obligations accepted by the european union in the context of the un , particularly bearing in mind that some eu countries are members of the un security council .
therefore , the spirit of the un charter will naturally be followed in the type of activity which the european union may carry out within those petersberg tasks which do not involve the use of military force .
we expressly accept the need for this security council resolution where military forces are to be used in a given context .
the traditionally neutral countries , particularly the eu member states which are not members of nato , have managed to safeguard all their concerns in achieving this balance because this issue is clearly very delicate for these countries .
the european code of conduct on arms exports , adopted on 8 june 1998 , prohibits exports of arms to countries where there is a risk of the arms being used in an internal conflict .
as you know , the european union ' s position on arms exports is set out in the code of conduct approved in june 1998 .
mr president-in-office of the council , allow me to hide my amazement at your reply .
i fear that the same fate that has befallen our foreign and security policy as a whole , and which has been discussed so many times , will also befall this code of conduct .
the code of conduct was regarded at the time as a very important qualitative step forward in terms of the disparate practices of the member states which existed at that time .
question no 14 by ( h-0474 / 00 ) : subject : restoring normal relations with austria in view of the response given earlier in the year by the council to the recent political developments in austria and of the need to promote the best overall interests of the european community , will the council now state if it is prepared to restore normal relations with austria at every level ?
the council of ministers of the european union does not have to express an opinion on a decision taken by 14 member states in the context of their bilateral relations with austria .
during the term of the portuguese presidency , there has been no working body of the european union in which austria has not had , like this parliament , the option of full and active participation with regard to the whole of the eu ' s operation .
every country has every right , with regard to the development of the political situation in another country , to adopt an attitude and to draw the due consequences from this .
the responsibility for the position taken by the 14 member states was freely assumed by these countries .
it was raised the day before yesterday by the austrian foreign minister in luxembourg and doctor wolfgang schussel will very probably take the opportunity afforded by his presence in santa maria da feira to raise this issue .
what can also not be disputed is that the other governments are free to be unhappy about the austrian government if they consider that this government contains a party which does not respect a set of basic principles which these governments have collectively undertaken to respect and which austria has also undertaken to respect .
with regard to the issue of using the community bodies to raise this issue , we are a free union in that each member state has the right to raise this issue formally or informally in the specific context of the union .
i am not sure what will happen in feira but clearly doctor wolfgang schussel is totally free to express his opinions and to see the reaction of the other member states to his words and arguments .
i would like to hear the views of the portuguese presidency , and maybe other presidencies , when others coming from the extreme right or indeed the extreme left enter government within the union .
someone must take an initiative to resolve this serious problem .
with regard to the result of the austrian elections , i clearly said that we fully respect the result of these elections .
the problem is that the result of this free election , as has happened in the past in other countries , brought a certain party to power .
nothing leads us to believe that there has been any positive change which may justify a new attitude of the european union and , in particular , which may create the opportunity for any type of discussion on this matter within the european union .
since the time allotted to questions to the council has elapsed , questions nos 15 to 28 will be replied to in writing .
by letter of 8 june 2000 , the council requested from parliament its opinion of the proposed council regulation amending regulation ( ec ) no 974 / 98 on the introduction of the euro 2000 / 137 ( cns ) and a proposed council regulation amending regulation ( ec ) no 1103 / 97 which lays down various provisions on the introduction of the euro 2000 / 134 ( cns ) before the european council in feira on 19 june 2000 .
the committee on economic affairs has decided to apply the simplified procedure in accordance with rule 158 of the rules of procedure to both texts .
furthermore , our model of unequal development leads to poverty and indebtedness in these countries .
it is a contradiction to preach the reconstruction of central america taking account of respect for the environment , according to a model of sustainable development , while we continue to maintain the same economic relations with those countries .
the second issue involves the global objective of our assistance .
the commission ' s proposal is sensible insofar as it centres its attention on two fields : health and education .
this requires a substantial increase in our staff , a measure which this house supports .
the threat of hostility between nicaragua and honduras as a result of border disputes would cast doubt upon the good sense of our aid , and we therefore think that both of those countries should be subject to the decisions of the international court of justice .
the other is the recent re-emergence in guatemala of political kidnappings , such as that of the university professor mayra angelina gutierrez , political killings , such as that of the community leader , jose amancio mendoza , or threats against journalists ( the case of gerardi or the nobel prize winner , rigoberta menchu ) which are of concern .
although it is considerable , we believe that the amount indicated by the commission , eur 250 million , is insufficient given the magnitude of the disaster and the slow rate of the area ' s recovery .
we are concerned by the items appearing today in the press indicating that the commission intends to reduce all european union aid , including that destined for latin america , because of its commitments in kosovo .
the european parliament has already stated that it would not commit itself to any action which would mean cuts in the aid to other parts of the world .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , some regions in the world are struck by the hand of fate several times in quick succession .
and then , just a few years ago , these countries were again hard hit , this time by a terrible hurricane , and they are still suffering the consequences .
the committee on budgets supports the idea of earmarking eur 250 million for this region for the period from 1999 to 2004 .
mr president , our committee undoubtedly agrees with mr marset campos ' s report .
the commission , for its part , must set up suitable structures on the ground .
we know that in el salvador , for example , the erstwhile calderon government diverted aid of eur 1 million in order to win votes in the right-wing camp .
the union must also guarantee these countries access to the markets for their products , which must be assessed from both an ecological and a social point of view , because there is little point in giving out aid , on the one hand , and excluding these countries from our markets , on the other .
the countries most affected , honduras and nicaragua , are the poorest in the region .
as the commission has said , the consequences of mitch will considerably reduce the results of the efforts towards economic recovery and investment made there during the last decade by the european union .
in april 1999 , the commission approved a special action plan , provided with eur 250 million , which this parliament fully supports in the terms in which it was approved .
the european parliament - and i believe we should remember this - reacted immediately by calling an extraordinary meeting on 4 november 1998 which was attended by the commissioners then responsible .
in its resolution of 19 november , the european parliament expressed the terms in which the european union would respond to the situation created by hurricane mitch .
i remember the date : november 18-19 1998 .
the countries of central america have taken on very painful processes of structural adjustment which have meant great sacrifices for their societies .
it is now time for our institutions , in the face of a disaster of this type , to be a match for our civil society and for the circumstances .
this resolution has the advantage of going beyond emergencies .
the community action plan is a chance to combine the reconstruction process with an element of change - change which these countries genuinely need - and to invest in a new economic and social development process based on the priorities of health , education and high quality services , which , in these countries , are directly responsible for the quality of life , and , above all , the quality of their democracy .
the resolution explains in great detail that all this is possible provided that two conditions are upheld and satisfied .
to this end , the resolution calls for the european union to have sole responsibility for planning , execution and monitoring of the aid .
however , the second condition is much more important : we need to increase the commission ' s financial and human resources .
the resolution adopted by the european parliament in november 1998 was also a step in this direction in that it referred to the cancellation of the foreign debt of the countries in the region , which amounted to usd 17 billion .
mr president , there is little to add at this point in the debate , especially after the excellent report by mr marset , which i agree with completely .
i think it is particularly important to use the know-how of european organisations and organisations in member states for reconstruction and to involve non-governmental organisations and local experts .
it is paradoxical that nicaragua and honduras , which were two of the least developed countries even before hurricane mitch , fail to qualify for the same treatment as many , many others , such as the acp countries , which we treat well , and rightly so .
in the case of sugar , which is an important product for nicaragua , nicaragua has no access of any importance to european markets .
the third challenge is that we need to fight the causes of these disasters .
i hope that we shall be giving the commission a certain amount of room for manoeuvre in the use of these funds because the speed at which programmes are implemented is often much more important than accounts in black and white down to the last penny .
the eur 250m regional programme for the reconstruction of central america , spread over four years , will contribute to the reconstruction and the transformation of the four countries most devastated by hurricane mitch - honduras , nicaragua , el salvador and guatemala .
the commission is aware that the success of such an ambitious and complex programme also depends on the degree of coordination among the various actors present .
a coordination group is being set up between the commission and the member states .
another important element will be the stockholm follow-up group .
until now the commission has always been involved in an informal way in the activities carried out by this group .
a first report of the activities carried out by the commission has been distributed among the parliamentary committee on industry , external trade , research and energy .
the mobilisation of the statutory personnel necessary for decentralised management and implementation of the programme certainly delayed the rapid launch of the programme , as has been emphasised by several speakers .
the first official will arrive in managua on 17 july and the remaining officials in the following weeks .
the commission is taking all necessary steps so that the programme can be in place and operational within the following three months .
we cited it as an example in our recent proposals for the overall reform of our external assistance programmes .
these include the european community contribution to the hipc debt initiative , and approval of an improved general system of preferences scheme for central america and council regulation of 21 december 1998 applying a multiannual scheme of generalised tariff preferences has been extended to 31 december 2001 .
in addition , the commission is taking part in the hipc debt initiative , contributing some eur 50m to both honduras and nicaragua .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m .
that the treaty of amsterdam moved in this direction was therefore all the more important .
allow me to highlight the main points which i think are important for future asylum procedures .
fourthly : i think that the member states of the eu should be required to draw up a uniform , binding list of countries subject to a visa requirement and safe third countries and countries of origin .
one important point which i should like to address , and which we have made clear several times in the report , is that the burden must be divided between the member states .
common principles were indeed seen as more important than individual political objectives .
the right to asylum is enshrined in various treaties but , because of different definitions and interpretations by national courts , the law is applied to differing degrees .
this obviously contradicts the principles and objectives of the ec treaty , title 4 of which refers to asylum policy as an important means of establishing an area of peace , security and justice .
eight specific points are dealt with : communitisation of the dublin system , eurodac , minimum standards for admission , minimum standards for recognising refugees , minimum standards for granting or withdrawing refugee status , complementary , subsidiary protection , temporary protection for displaced persons and , last but not least , a division of the burden .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i should like to highlight two positive things .
the first is the working document presented by the commission , which was the starting point for the report .
austria , for example , where i come from , is always near the top of the list when it comes to admitting temporary refugees or asylum seekers .
it is an important point , because asylum seekers are entitled to a fast decision and a fast answer on their future status .
the third point is that which gives legal certainty and which , when implemented , helps to ensure that identical decisions are taken in all member states .
it attracted a broad consensus but i fear that this consensus will not perhaps hold up if all the amendments proposed by the greens are included .
assert yourself in your party .
the initiatives of the european union on reuniting families , the anti-discrimination package , temporary protection for war refugees and , at long last , the attempt to harmonise asylum law make this very clear .
mr pirker , i do not see a problem with this - you can reject them again tomorrow .
i hope that we will be able to persuade the member states of the merits of our approach .
clear , well-defined rules governing the matter are also necessary in order to avoid the right to asylum being confused with the problem of immigration .
i used the word ' problem ' intentionally , for the very reason that the absence of an adequate immigration policy has meant that our citizens often perceive all forms of immigration as a problem , a burden and even a hazard , instead of as a social and economic resource and a source of cultural enrichment .
in italy , for example , unregulated or , even worse , illegal immigration is related to organised crime .
there is , without doubt , a great need to clarify the existing differences between the asylum procedure , reception conditions , the interpretation of the definition of a refugee , the links between that asylum procedure and the ' dublin mechanism ' procedures and other forms of protection and , in this respect , this document perfectly focuses the debate .
secondly , i would like to say that this report has one virtue which i would like to highlight amongst others - although i have been critical on some points - and that is that it very much insists on legal certainty , on judicial safeguards , on the asylum seeker ' s right to defence and , in particular , on everything contained in point 4 and , of course , on everything relating to legal assistance , with the possibility of making contact with ngos and the unhcr .
therefore , mr president , i hope that certain groups , and in particular the ppe group , will reconsider this amendment , which takes up the amendment of the group of the greens precisely .
it takes up an amendment of the group of the greens which was not approved in committee and i believe it should receive the support of the house .
as i said , perhaps you are right , but if we are talking about the individual right to asylum , then this also implies that there must be an individual examination in special cases .
that also forms part of the legal framework .
the disappearance of internal borders and the creation of the area of freedom , security and justice require us to make an effort to harmonise our asylum and immigration policies and to reinforce checks at external borders .
this disproportion is bad for the european union as a whole because it creates inequalities between member states .
mr president , having seen over the years very difficult discussions in parliament relating to this subject , it is indeed a pleasure for me this evening to see such widespread support for this report .
it is a good working document and we have a good basis to start working , so i congratulate the commission as well .
reception countries are happily turning a blind eye to the people passing through their countries on the way to third countries .
cooperation between police forces , where there is widespread information on prostitution amongst young girls in the member states , has unfortunately to be an intrinsic part of our asylum policy .
what is clear , particularly in my own country at the moment , is that we must challenge the alarming rise in racism and xenophobia within our communities .
it is a deeply disturbing phenomenon in my own country .
the commission has now received reactions on this working document from several member states , from numerous ngos , and with the report of parliament , will be in a position to fulfil one of the commitments of the scoreboard , which is to present a directive on minimum standards for asylum procedures .
it is my intention to present this proposal for a directive in the autumn of 2000 .
i should like to remind the house that the commission proposed to the tampere european council to adopt a single european asylum system .
but the decision of the european council in tampere was to endorse an approach based on minimum common standards .
so the directive is , in my opinion , the most relevant instrument to address these minimum standards for asylum procedures which will have to reflect the cornerstones of the policy of the european union with regard to asylum as was underscored by the european council in tampere : an absolute respect for the right to seek asylum , a full and inclusive application of the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees and maintaining the principle of non-refoulement .
the commission welcomes the approach the european parliament has taken in many parts of the motion for a resolution .
the commission endorses the recital calling for asylum policy to be conducted on as factual a basis as possible .
we have to recognise that finding a balanced solution between simplifying the procedures on the one hand and guaranteeing legal certainty and respect for the rights of asylum seekers on the other hand is not an easy task .
the commission shares the view of the european parliament that entry of asylum seekers , migration for economic or other reasons and temporary admittance of displaced persons and refugees in the event of a mass influx must be treated as entirely separate matters .
on 24 may 2000 the commission adopted a directive on minimum standards for giving temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons and on measures promoting a balance of effort between member states in receiving such persons and bearing the consequences thereof .
i should like to say that this proposal on temporary protection addresses explicitly the question raised by several speakers on burden-sharing as we have adopted an approach on burden-sharing on the proposal we have already submitted to the council for a european fund for refugees .
so i should like to stress that this proposal cannot be seen as separate from the other proposals that are already on the table and that they take into account the sensitive question of solidarity among member states .
to achieve the first step , the commission will not only come up with a proposal for a directive on common standards for fair and efficient asylum procedures , which we are now discussing , but will also bring forward , inter alia and as soon as possible , proposals on the determination of the state responsible for the examination of an application and on common minimum conditions for reception of asylum seekers .
i should like to remind the house that , as i have already said , we have already put forward for consultation by member states a working document that aims to replace the dublin convention by a community regulation , having in mind the concrete experience and the vulnerabilities and deficiencies that have arisen in the application of the dublin convention .
with regard to the second step , the tampere conclusions invited the commission to come forward with a communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those who are granted asylum valid throughout the union .
it is my intention that by the end of the year 2000 this communication will be brought forward .
the commission notes - as has been emphasised by several speakers - that the european parliament has taken a general position on rationalising community law on asylum matters in this resolution .
the commission will not only study the resolution very carefully in order to prepare its proposal for a directive on common standards on asylum procedures - that i reiterate will be presented in the autumn of this year - but will also reflect on them whilst preparing the communication it will put forward by the end of this year on a common asylum procedure in the long term .
i sincerely feel encouraged by the fact that this communication has such broad support in the house .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
it points out that within an area of freedom , justice and security within the european union , citizens must be entitled to effective legal protection .
the commission would also like to launch a discussion on the treatment of victims and would like to see measures taken to improve their plight .
the measures proposed in the commission communication appear to be geared exclusively towards victims from one member state in another member state , or third country victims legally resident in one member state in another member state .
however , the package of measures should also take account of member state victims in third countries and third country citizens illegally resident in a member state .
since they are concerned with both civil and criminal procedures , the treaties provide the european union with instruments for increasing the protection of crime victims on its territory .
the scoreboard submitted by the commission for reviewing progress in implementing the area of liberty , security and justice should be modified in such a way as to guarantee and speed up the legislative follow-up to the present directive .
i would also draw attention to the importance of a legal basis for , and harmonisation of , the measures for protecting victims .
the useful experience available in respect of existing measures in certain member states can play an important role in harmonising measures or drawing up a common package of measures .
finally , pending the introduction of a harmonised instrument for cross-border protection of victims , the member states themselves and the candidate countries , in conjunction with ngos , will need to enhance the protection of victims .
this applies to all the european institutions .
the best way of preventing crime is to disseminate information .
crime victims ought also to know to what rights and possible forms of aid they are in fact entitled .
the commission ' s proposal involves introducing minimum standards for receiving crime victims with a view to being able to provide them with information and support where necessary .
it is difficult for foreign crime victims to follow the legal proceedings at a distance , which is why special measures are also required to guarantee the legal position of foreign crime victims .
however , it is also essential that we consider the people most affected by crime : its victims .
mr president , i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report .
it is therefore crucial that we use these powers to improve the position of victims of crime .
we must in particular draw attention to intrusion or possible intrusion by the press .
i am particularly pleased that this report includes support in the language or dialect of the victim of crime because sometimes that is an area that is overlooked .
ethnic minorities , very often women , children - those who sometimes find the system difficult - will be the ones who are most at risk in this sort of situation .
the pse group is pleased to support this report and to congratulate the rapporteur .
i think , for example , of some of the conclusions of the wergens report , and we would have expected more from the commission than proposals for greater dialogue and the exchange of best practice .
we need clear measures to help victims with access to assistance , justice and compensation .
however , it must be said that if we feel the commission could do more , the biggest problem is by far the member states .
it seems to us incredible that seven member states have still not ratified the 1983 convention on compensation for victims of violent crime and that standards of justice are still so low in so many member states .
let me give just one brief example from my own constituency .
he does not have access to legal aid in the netherlands .
unless we are able as a union to help in relatively clear and simple situations like this , our citizens will not have confidence in the single market and will not feel part of the european union .
i hope that we can take up some of the ideas put forward in this report to improve their situation .
mr president , i would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur , patsy sorensen , for the care and accuracy of her report .
on the other hand , i would like to focus my attention on the presentation of various amendments to the draft text which include people affected by terrorism as the victims of crime in the eu .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur for her valuable work .
people have to enjoy true justice without having to pay for it .
the minimum level of legal protection in the member states of the eu must not be allowed to slip to that which exists in the united states .
the eu and its member states must also ensure that the victims of crime do not have to suffer twice over for the wrong done them .
eu member states must develop more effective cooperation among the authorities in post-trial situations , for example , in the areas of plaintiff and witness protection programmes .
mr president , i welcome the commission communication on victims of crime in the european union , since it studies the process of creating common policies , as well as greater cooperation between the member states at a time when we are all aware , including this parliament of course , of the need for this type of communitisation .
one is the sensitivity it shows by specifically highlighting the fact that there are certain social groups - women , children , immigrants , homosexuals - who are more vulnerable than the rest of the population , as well as the fact that there are also certain sectors who , ignoring the most basic democratic principles , prefer to use violence to impose their objectives .
from another point of view and bearing in mind the ever increasing importance and influence of the media in our society , special attention should be paid to the way in which the media deal with the reality of these people , which is not always respectful of individual rights , above all when we are talking about minors , whether they be victims or delinquents .
with regard to these people it is also necessary to apply certain measures so that they can rebuild their lives correctly , not only from an economic point of view , but also through psychological , legal , medical and social assistance .
i must finally stress my deep concern about the need to pay due attention to the victims of terrorism , since these are people who suffer from a very serious and specific form of crime which , unfortunately , does not only take place in my country , spain , and which threatens democratic coexistence and freedom .
mr president , as the commission says in the introduction to its communication , we cannot seriously speak of a citizens ' europe without dealing with the rights of victims .
this is a balanced report which has been sensitive to the victims of terrorism , because if there are three groups of victims which must receive our special attention , they are , as the treaty says , victims of trafficking in human beings , victims of crime against children and victims of terrorism .
it should be noted that the commission communication differs from this in offering a broader approach to issues of the european level protection of victims of crime .
this broader approach takes the view that the issue of victims also necessitates work on prevention , information , practical help and the status of victims in criminal trials .
that is why it declared that it is in the union ' s interest to adopt minimum standards for the protection of victims of crime , specifically with regard to access to justice for these victims and their right to compensation , including the reimbursement of their legal fees .
this issue must not only be addressed at european level , but the tampere council also recommends establishing national programmes to finance both public and non-governmental measures for the assistance and protection of victims .
the commission agrees fully with the approach for the need to develop victim support networks , particularly language support .
by the same token , we share the rapporteur ' s concern at the special attention that needs to be paid to particular categories of victim , such as foreign nationals , minors , and victims of sexual violence , the trade in human beings or terrorist acts .
we are paying close attention to a proposal for a framework decision on the protection of victims in europe , which is already under consideration by the council .
we are already establishing contacts with the future swedish presidency , which , this autumn , with support from the grotius programme , will be organising a special seminar specifically on compensation mechanisms .
similarly , in a very practical move , the commission has already decided to carry out a study into the feasibility of establishing a european victim aid system in the form of a free multilingual telephone helpline .
many members have expressed regret that the commission ' s scoreboard only provides for measures on aid for crime victims from 2004 onwards .
nevertheless , as you see , the commission is already committed to working without delay on this issue , which is so important for the people of europe , and i hope that we will have achieved tangible results even before 2004 .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow , at 12 noon .
it is important to smes , it is important to the public sector , it is probably a far more important instrument for promoting employment than many of the resolutions passed here in this house .
in addition - and this was an important point - the principle of equal treatment between the public and private sectors has been acknowledged .
this does not figure in the directive but , in my experience as an mep , we often hear complaints when we visit smes and large companies alike , that the commission is often far too late honouring the payment commitments which it has entered into in research promotion or other areas .
i hope that the commission will be guided by the spirit of this directive and make its own payments on time , because here too , i repeat , this is breach of contract .
what i can say is that the negotiations between the european parliament and the council were a most pleasant experience .
of course , i can say now that it was a pleasant experience because the outcome has been extremely positive for parliament .
mr president , i have already received many reactions from within the sme world to the text that we will be adopting tomorrow and , partly on behalf of all these smes , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work .
mr president , as early as in 1993 - at the very outset of the internal market - we , together with parliament , asked the commission to submit a proposal to regulate late payments .
i have another question for the commission .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in my view , this directive is , without doubt , the most important directive for the small and family-run businesses of europe .
the stronger the partner , the more power he has to make a business wait .
now , with the treaty of amsterdam , we may have a clearer legal basis , but we must make a great effort to establish effective coordination and harmonisation in all of these areas .
in fact , you will be aware that public companies settle within a certain period , and this time limit means that it will no longer be possible for private companies who deal with the public sector to impose large , excessive burdens on public companies .
mr president , in one way it is a good thing that the public in the 15 european states does not take too much notice of what we are doing , especially on evenings such as this where you , mr president , the commissioner , seven members and roughly the same number of officials must stand by our posts .
there is a proverb in italian : non e mai troppo tarde - it is never too late !
but it is too late for many small and medium-sized enterprises , family businesses and young entrepreneurs .
mr president , i had asked the commission whether it intended to submit a proposal on conditions for the setting up , and mutual recognition of , debt-collecting agencies in europe .
i would like to ask you whether you are prepared to write a letter or contact the austrian government to express your concern about the restriction of the freedom of expression and to point out the obligations which the government has in this respect and which it cannot escape unilaterally .
thank you , mrs buitenweg .
we are investigating the matter you have just told us about very carefully .
madam president , yesterday , the european parliament decided by democratic majority no longer to convene in strasbourg on fridays .
everyone has their own personal and political responsibility .
mrs van der laan , you will agree that even when entrusted with the office of president of the european parliament , we remain free politicians .
madam president , i would like to make you aware of something very inconvenient which happened to me which , in my opinion , undermines the dignity of the members of this parliament .
mr mauro , what happened to you is totally unacceptable .
please let me have a note as soon as possible so that i can take it up with the authorities concerned .
i have a letter from you , madam president , dated 6 april , in which it was agreed by the college of quaestors that the area around the chambers in brussels and strasbourg should be regarded as a neutral zone in which demonstrations , exhibitions or similar activities intended to influence members would not be tolerated .
i hope that you and the college of quaestors will take this seriously because it is an encroachment on the right of members to come to this house and vote freely on issues that their electors have sent them here to debate .
the portuguese presidency has always tried to maintain a frank , open and constructive relationship with the european parliament , both with the plenary and its committees .
it is in this spirit that i will present our preview of the feira european council .
lunch will be devoted to the intergovernmental conference and , in particular , closer cooperation .
the afternoon session will be devoted to the issues of enlargement of the union , the common european security and defence policy and external relations .
the intergovernmental conference will come to the european council through the presentation of a report by the presidency .
i would highlight the formation and entry into force of the new political and military bodies and civilian crisis management bodies for the first time in the history of the european union and also the approval of the rules governing relations between the eu and nato and between the eu and third countries .
the decision taken on the location of all these bodies , in terms of buildings and installations , should also be stressed .
we have also recognised full applicant status for turkey , approved the framework regulation and accession partnership , and also a unique financial framework , and we have held the first association council with a view to adequately preparing for assessment .
as for the state of enlargement negotiations , given that yesterday and the day before we held 12 consecutive intergovernmental accession conferences with the 12 applicants , the following negotiating chapters are now closed : 16 with cyprus , 13 with estonia and the czech republic , 12 with slovenia , 11 with hungary and poland , 7 with malta , 6 with slovakia , 5 with romania , latvia and lithuania and 4 with bulgaria .
the potential of this new model of external representation of the union is considerable and it is fair to say that the next few months will demonstrate this .
the presidency has already drawn up and submitted the report on the intergovernmental conference .
in the oral question to the commission , we requested clarification regarding its undertaking to reorganise the treaties and provide a fresh perspective on the problems of governance , points on which the commission had already made its opinion clear .
in our oral question to the council , we requested clarification of the issue of the charter of fundamental rights and its incorporation into the treaties .
the importance of the feira summit has been rightly highlighted at this delicate stage in the process of european integration and i want to start by saying that the commission expects this european council to provide the political impetus for adapting the union before the great enlargement .
both mr napolitano and mr gama mentioned the first : genuine institutional reform right now .
the commission is committed to effective and rapid follow-up to the lisbon european council - that is the least that might be expected of it .
i would also like to testify here , if i may , madam president - because i participate conscientiously in the work of the group - to the very active part taken in that work , under your authority , by your two representatives , elmar brok and professor tsatsos .
ladies and gentlemen , with the presidency report now available , the feira european council should give us a snapshot of the progress accomplished so far and i hope that snapshot will be ' proactive ' - as we can expect after listening to mr gama .
i am especially thinking of the progress on what i consider the most important item in the negotiations : the extension of qualified majority voting and , consequently , the extension of codecision .
in the debate now in progress about the future and purpose of the european union , the essential first stage is definitely putting the union into working order now to make the enlargement a success .
the draft basic treaty , presented at our request by the institute of florence does , i think , demonstrate the legal feasibility of this exercise .
but as you yourself have said , madam president , we must at least make a start on it , at the latest in nice .
mr napolitano mentioned the report on governance announced by president prodi .
the commission hopes the work of the convention drafting this charter will be completed before the end of the year .
the charter should create added value , without affecting the acquis in the treaty , by codifying in a single text all the fundamental rights upheld by the union and adding the fundamental economic and social rights which form a part of that acquis , plus some new limited rights .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i would like to talk about the commission ' s second great priority : the development of foreign policy and a genuine european security and defence policy .
as the council president mentioned , following helsinki , negotiations are now in progress with all the candidate countries .
that said , from now on , we who are already in the union must set out to explain the coming great enlargement better and give the citizens of our countries better information about it .
that is what the initiative taken with you by gunther verheugen is about , and we attach great importance to this public debate he will be taking part in , because we are aware of a feeling of disquiet among citizens in all our countries , a need to understand , and a growing sensitivity to the issue of enlargement .
the defence ministers have been involved in that work and at feira the european council will be presented with a progress report measuring , as you said , minister , what has been accomplished under the portuguese presidency , and it will draw up guidelines for the work ahead .
the commission is contributing actively to these developments , in particular as regards civilian crisis management .
on this point , chris patten recently submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council , to create a rapid reaction force .
the commission has also undertaken an in-depth review of its own organisation and procedures in the area of foreign policy , in order to adapt them to these new challenges .
under foreign policy , the european council will in particular be debating the situation in the western balkans and the implementation of the common strategy towards russia .
the council should also adopt the common strategy for the mediterranean region .
for the western balkans , the commission will continue to work with the member states and with the secretary general , javier solana , to achieve a rapprochement , a real rapprochement , between the countries concerned and the european union , through a stabilisation and association process .
first , the european commission , along with the entire international community , was delighted at the israeli government ' s decision of 24 may to withdraw from south lebanon , in line with united nations security council resolutions 425 and 426 .
we should pay tribute to the prime minister of the state of israel , ehud barak , for having taken this difficult decision after 22 years of occupation .
the commission has already sent a mission to evaluate reconstruction needs in situ .
likewise , following the death of president harez el assad , the union must also encourage a smooth political transition process in syria , as well as continuing economic reform and modernisation in that country through a strengthening of the rule of law , through a strengthening of human rights and through political pluralism .
talks between syria and israel will be able to find fresh impetus in this new political context and could lead to a just and durable peace agreement .
finally , the feira european council ' s agenda will include the common mediterranean strategy , which many of you , quite rightly , value highly .
not only will it contribute to strengthening the barcelona process with a view to the forthcoming euro-mediterranean summit in marseilles , it will also help consolidate the european union ' s contribution to the peace process .
finally , madam president , ladies and gentlemen , i want to talk about the effective and rapid follow-up to the lisbon european council , which the commission is very committed to , just as it is committed to the proper preparation of this council .
that is reflected in falling unemployment rates everywhere , even though there are still too many pockets of poverty within the member states .
in this improved context , the commission , the council and parliament must act together to make the lisbon objectives a reality , not contenting ourselves with words and hopes , but putting them into practice .
together with the council , we have presented a draft action plan to make the eeurope initiative a reality as from 2002 .
feira should approve this plan and i want to underline two key factors in the programme presented by erkki liikanen : first the reform of the regulatory environment for communications and electronic commerce , then , access for all citizens , especially young people , to the resources and qualifications needed in the communication and information age .
the high level working group on social protection is preparing its interim report on the modernisation and improvement of social protection .
i also want to stress the major role played by this house in all these issues .
we trust the feira european council will acknowledge all the progress made .
but the european council must also provide fresh impetus for intensifying these efforts , particularly in the areas where short term action is still necessary to achieve the lisbon objectives .
all this requires a commitment from all the operators involved and the political impetus to introduce the necessary measures , but in our turn we must convert this political will , ladies and gentlemen , when the time comes , into priority expenditure , both by the union and by the member states .
there again , perhaps feira can point us in that direction .
first , the one pedro solbes will report on : the main economic policy guidelines and the coordination that goes with them , essential for a better balance between the two pillars of economic and monetary union .
we are persuaded that the guidelines thus defined are , with the luxembourg , cardiff and cologne processes , essential for proper progress towards the lisbon objectives .
finally , the fiscal package .
on 18 june there will be a special ecofin council , and we hope it will open the way to an agreement , provided all the parties demonstrate goodwill and a desire to reach a conclusion .
i want to say , on behalf of the commission , how very active the portuguese presidency really has been .
but a european council is also the result of the effort made by each institution .
so i feel sure that the effort everyone has made will result in the feira european council making progress possible on all these fundamental issues , responding better to the challenges of the union as a whole , responding better to the expectations of the citizens of our fifteen countries , but also to the expectations i mentioned just now , those of the citizens of the twelve countries of central , eastern , baltic and mediterranean europe who are soon going to join us .
thank you , mr barnier .
madam president , mr president-in-office , commissioner barnier , ladies and gentlemen , next week ' s summit in feira could be an important summit if the work it is to do is carried out properly .
the procedures to be agreed in feira for the future of the european union represent a significant step along this path .
firstly , the intergovernmental conference must be concluded in nice this winter , but not just for the sake of completing it , but rather in order to achieve a satisfactory outcome .
secondly , we witnessed major changes in europe in 1989-90 , not to mention before and since then .
the peoples of central europe are anxious to join our community of values .
we must not create the impression that these central european peoples are not welcome in our community of values .
i would like to call on you personally to do everything in your power to make sure that we send a signal to the peoples of central europe that they are welcome to join us !
you have talked about extending the agenda for the intergovernmental conference .
commissioner barnier has talked about majority voting .
commissioner barnier talked about a basic treaty .
i support the endeavours to create a strong europe , indeed we have always supported them , but in the framework of the western alliance , and not separately from our american friends , but complementing them and as partners with equal rights .
if we want to supplement article 191 of the treaty , and the commission is to present a proposal to the igc to that effect , then it must be possible to deal with this at the igc and ultimately to supplement the treaty if we are to make progress on the subject of european political parties .
this is about paragraph 8 of the political groups ' motion for a resolution .
mr president-in-office , everyone will probably see this differently , but this issue is casting a shadow over the european union .
we know that in denmark , support for the euro in the run-up to the referendum in september is rapidly waning because of the austrian issue , as in denmark , this is viewed as interference in the internal affairs of the smaller states .
if you succeed , it will be a success for all of us , for the entire continent of europe !
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , it is no cliche to say that , on the eve of the european council in feira , this is a decisive moment for the european union .
this debate reflects the political will of the group of the party of european socialists , and also parliament as a whole , who wish to achieve an ambitious agenda for the intergovernmental conference .
with regard to the intergovernmental conference , it is important that president herzog appears before the european council in feira .
i would like to point out that , when we talk about the community of values , - and there have been recent opportunities to do so , such as the formation of the new austrian government - we must demand that the charter of fundamental rights be clearly included in the treaty in order to fulfil the purpose of articles 6 and 7 of that treaty .
furthermore , although the treaty of the european union recognises european citizenship , until now , economic and social , individual and collective rights have not been developed .
it is completely contradictory to have citizenship without rights .
one is , for parliament , that decisions made by qualified majority should be accompanied by the codecision procedure , and the second point is that we must favour integration over closer cooperation , because what we are actually doing is integrating .
in the economic field , what we need is greater coordination of economic , social and employment policies .
we must implement the conclusions of the european council in lisbon , which are positive and have achieved a broad consensus in this parliament as well , but this requires that we increase our capacity for economic government .
i believe that it is also important for the commission , with regard to the balkans , to take account of the fact that there is a country which could become a bridge - having before been a barrier - towards the balkans , and that is croatia .
finally , i would like to say a few words about the middle east .
i agree that the israeli withdrawal from southern lebanon is very important and we must support barak , but we should also intensify our partnership with syria and lebanon .
we must have an active policy in order to contribute towards resolving the dramatic problem of the palestinian refugees , and we can actively offer ideas and resources in order to ensure that the middle east peace process will make decisive progress , which would also lead to a greater opening up and intensification of the euro-mediterranean process .
all of these elements are on the agenda and i hope that the european council in feira will make progress .
madam president , i should like , on behalf of the liberal democrat group , to begin by recording our thanks to the portuguese presidency and our appreciation of its willingness to engage constantly with this parliament , with its committees and with its groups .
i cite qualified majority voting as an example .
we are prepared to engage in the debate on closer cooperation and welcome the way it has been put to us by a number of important political personalities outside this house .
but there are some caveats : we hope that speculation on long-term reform will not be the enemy of necessary radical reform in the immediate period ahead .
we believe it is important not to signal to existing member states or to candidate states that any of us would contemplate a europe of first- and second-class citizens in terms of statehood and membership .
my group would appreciate it if the council at feira would try to make an evaluation of the quality of relations between the fourteen and austria .
i asked him to send to me a copy of the list that is available of persons and agencies in civil society in austria who have become isolated from various educational , social or cultural events in europe .
regardless of intergovernmental diplomacy , it is intolerable that we should isolate the common citizens of a state .
if there is any way that we in parliament and my group can assist , we are ready to try to do so .
relations between the european union and nato are converging so quickly that the non-aligned countries are in a very precarious situation , although they want to make a full contribution to the promotion of national security .
i was recently in new york at a conference on women ' s issues .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , a year ago , almost to the day , the european elections were marked by massive abstentions , confirming that there is a crisis of confidence amongst citizens as regards the european institutions .
when you were preparing for the portuguese presidency , mr president-in-office , i presume you were determined to send a strong message to the public .
and you effectively relaunched the idea of full employment , emphasised the importance of lifelong training , and stressed the considerable challenge represented by the information revolution .
madam president , president-in-office , ladies and gentlemen , the feira european council represents a fresh opportunity for this house to express its opinion on the various political issues forming the eu agenda .
firstly , on austria , clearly we do not harbour any sympathies for political extremism but we must condemn the ill-timed reaction of 14 member states to the formation of a democratically elected government before this had even had the chance to start governing .
the portuguese presidency was willing to take on the role of spokesperson for the member states last february , wrongly in our opinion , despite the issue always having been a bilateral issue , as was clearly agreed between the 14 member states .
the distinctive act of the portuguese presidency should be to recognise and defend political equality between the member states as a corollary to maintaining the balance between the large and small countries and between these and the european union itself .
this will should be shown through three essential aspects : firstly the defence of the major european causes of peace , freedom and economic and social development which must underlie the negotiations with the applicant countries ; secondly the promotion of the merit of each country as the only condition to be imposed on accession , and thirdly the maintenance of the economic and social cohesion of the current 15 member states .
austria , the intergovernmental conference , the charter of fundamental rights and enlargement are four issues requiring four different responses .
this is what we expect from the meeting at feira of the heads of state and government on the portuguese presidency .
mr president , president gama , commissioner barnier , in feira , france will take over from portugal to complete the igc , the impossible reform of taxation on savings , the charter of fundamental rights , defence policy , and sanctions against austria .
portugal has had a difficult presidency , with the collapse of the euro , and the collapse of the new economy , and , in lisbon , had to deal with many problems like unemployment , the loss of macao , the arrival of imitation port from south africa , and even the arrival of the great criminal rezala in your country , mr president .
the broadcasting rights could be paid to kosovo , iraq or the victims of the construction of europe .
in official speeches , everyone welcomes enlargement of the eu from 15 to 30 member states , but that objective is receding ever further , and more and more obstacles are being placed in the path of the unification of europe ' s nation states .
the feira summit will give the green light particularly to close cooperation between the most developed and the most federally minded nations .
human rights , the arts , transport and foreign and security policy could also become areas for which european bodies such as the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe are responsible .
the common market could also , of course , be opened up to all european countries .
mr president , dismayed as i am about the continuing prejudgement of austria by 14 member states , i would like to stress that the santa maria da feira summit will be vital for the further development of the european union .
for one thing , it will determine whether the portuguese presidency will go down in history as the presidency which upheld the wrongful decision on the part of those 14 member states against austria , or , instead , as the presidency which found a way out of this unfortunate period of disregard for european solidarity and lack of respect for the democratic processes within member states .
over a year ago , it looked as if the disastrously low turnout in the european elections would at least have the helpful effect of initiating a fundamental debate about the structure of the european union .
the programme we have heard today does not give us cause for any great hope .
mr president , the forthcoming european council in feira will mark the end of the portuguese presidency of the european union .
we do not understand why the president-in-office has allowed confusion to arise between his institutional position as president of the european union and his role as spokesperson for the bilateral decisions of 14 member states against one .
the portuguese presidency assumed a special responsibility in this issue and we hope that it will solve the problem at the feira european council so that this does not become a sore point within the european union .
the idea that everything will be decided at the last minute seems too much a justification of a fait accompli policy and must be rejected immediately .
we therefore hope that the feira european council will produce not just a statement of positions but also a plan , a project or an idea on the changes to the intergovernmental conference .
on this third point we had the opportunity yesterday to debate the proposals with the presidency and in particular the issues which will be on the agenda at feira .
the second point of the triangle is social and economic cohesion .
with regard to the issues of racism and xenophobia , we must fight these at the roots and prevent them from gaining ground and being used in speeches of the extreme right which we all reject but which it seems that some only reject in speeches but not in practice .
this parliament contributed positively and constructively , as commissioner barnier witnessed , so that the work of the igc could be started in february .
mr president , the drafting of the charter has now reached a critical phase .
we have drafted 60 clauses and provoked 1000 amendments .
this prejudice must be suppressed by the feira council if the project is to succeed .
mr president , commissioner , mr president-in-office of the council , the european union will only be able to play its historic role if it decides to be more than the sum of its member states .
as representatives of the european peoples without their own state , we want the european union to be a community of citizens , on the one hand , and correspond to the reality of peoples and regions and their political entities , on the other .
in our opinion , the institutional reforms which it is hoped feira will bring are sound but insufficient in our eyes .
we fear , for example , that the refusal to develop a true federal authority will result in a common foreign and security policy which cannot really function properly .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the portuguese presidency has certainly had a difficult task this semester , for it had to set in motion an intergovernmental conference which will finish during the term of the next presidency and , therefore , there was every possibility that governments would be uncooperative and play for time so that the next presidency would reap the benefits of the work carried out .
certainly , we expected more from this first stage of the intergovernmental conference .
from the point of view of the institutions , the current impasse is certainly extremely serious .
today , the european parliament is going to call strongly upon the portuguese presidency to uphold the need for integration , for political will , or the european union crisis will become a general crisis , as minister joschka fischer quite rightly pointed out yesterday .
the institutions of the european union , and this house in particular , have still not grasped this very elementary insight .
on 28 september of this year , the danish people , who have the privilege of being able to vote in referenda , will send out a decisive signal when we vote against joining the euro .
this ' no ' vote will , first of all , mean that our friends and brethren in sweden and great britain will also vote against and , secondly , it will send out a crucial signal to the summits in feira and nice to the effect that one ought to be guided by the terrain , which is more important than the ideological map .
it is based on fundamental principles , listed in article 6 of the treaty , which many of us have seen called into question in one particular member state .
in the ppe we have analysed - in my humble opinion , objectively and competently - the political situation in austria and we have agreed , within our political family , on a system of conditions and of monitoring which we pray will make a positive contribution to the resolution of this crisis .
these have been lively months internationally .
israel , syria and the lebanon are living through intense time in terms of national politics , as has been said this morning in this house .
i believe that these circumstances offer a new opportunity for definitive peace in the region .
therefore , we have to demand of our heads of government and of the european commission that they take the responsibility which the circumstances demand of the european union , by increasing our joint political presence , of course , but also in the economic field , concluding the associations agreements once and for all , and implementing the barcelona agreements more quickly .
we also think it is important to mention that the conference agenda is a full one , and we are expecting a positive result from it - a result which allows the european union to operate in its present state .
but these are two parallel exercises .
i also hope the intergovernmental conference agenda will be flexible enough for us to be in a position to add an item or two , here or there , depending on the progress of the work .
i am also thinking about the reform of article 7 .
the debate initiated by president herzog ' s speech must clearly highlight the european council ' s commitment to the indivisibility of rights and the convention ' s task of drafting a charter rich in content , which respects the full cologne mandate , civil and political rights , but also economic and social rights .
yes , but what use will it be to incorporate a charter if the content is disappointing ?
but for that it seems to me we also need the debate at the feira european council to give us a political signal .
the presidency has just announced that closer cooperation will be discussed at the intergovernmental conference .
however , there are many different ways of defining closer cooperation and , in our opinion , certain criteria must be respected .
the first is total observance of the acquis communautaire ; the second is the abolition of the right of veto for every member state ; the third is full respect of the roles of parliament , the commission and the court of justice in the decision-making procedures with regard to the initial introduction and implementation of closer cooperation .
this charter will only be a success if it has binding legal status - its content must , of course , be sound , but it must also have legal status - or it will serve absolutely no purpose - and if it includes other new rights such as the right to a safe environment and a number of fundamental social rights such as the right to belong to a trade union and the right to strike .
mr president , i would also like to draw the attention of the portuguese presidency to the fact that the aim of article 8 of our resolution is , from within the european parliament , to make a positive contribution to resolving the running conflict with austria .
i am therefore urging you to also assess the actions of the austrian government and to look for creative solutions in order to break the deadlock .
mr president , many have already pointed to the need for enlargement and the fear that has swept countries in central and eastern europe that , with regard to the igc , too little progress is being made and that , along with this , the chance for rapid enlargement will pass .
finally , mr president , good governance is all well and good in theory , but let us also look at what is happening in practice .
if the kosovo agency in thessaloniki is still caught up in so much red-tape that funding cannot be made available , then this is extremely serious .
jacques chirac and gerhard schroder announced that their countries are prepared for deeper integration as a core group , failing , however , to illustrate its nature or extent .
mr president , i believe that the quantity and quality of the speakers on the charter of fundamental rights illustrates the importance this house attaches to it .
i believe that it would be of great help to the convention if , in its conclusions , the european council could make a statement on the future of the charter , because it appears at the moment that its formulation has demonstrated that the charter is of interest to the people .
the participation of the ngos , the participation of ordinary people , clearly show that europeans are interested in the charter of fundamental rights .
the institutional questions of the intergovernmental conference are enormously important , but they do not reach the people .
i believe that the charter of fundamental rights does reach the people .
therefore , mr president-in-office of the council , i pray that in the feira conclusions , which we will all read with enormous interest , the charter will receive the boost that it deserves , so that the convention will be able to complete its work properly .
in that way we will fulfil the mandate of salvador de madariaga , for whom europe would become a reality only when it is a reality in the minds of the citizens .
this european council , as has been said , will have a very full agenda with the intergovernmental conference , the approval to include closer cooperation and other items .
on the contrary , it is advancing on both its internal fronts and also in external relations , which is extremely important .
all these points are extremely important .
as you know , this is a bilateral issue between 14 countries , which are also member states , and one country which is a member state too .
mr poettering and mr baron crespo , i hereby confirm the commitment i made to you yesterday on behalf of the commission on the status of european political parties .
the commission will shoulder its responsibilities .
and , with the support of your president , it is planning to use the next trialogue to identify the ideal approach , in agreement with the three institutions , but in the meantime we are getting the initiative ready .
you are right to highlight the strategic nature of the country , formerly part of yugoslavia .
mr president , the commission is currently preparing for negotiations which should open before the end of the year for an association and stabilisation agreement with croatia .
mr president , the commission is doing its duty and shouldering its responsibilities .
this is particularly true when it is faithful to the guidelines and decisions of a european council .
mr wurtz , you know very well that brussels is not the only place , and i smile when i say this , where politicians of right or left meet employers .
mr fischer and others have provided oxygen , a horizon .
the first deadline to be met , as you said , mr president , is the reform deadline so that we are in a good position to undertake enlargement and also so that other reforms can follow .
so let us keep to those deadlines and dedicate ourselves , in the few months that lie ahead , to success in the negotiations .
and , as far as i am concerned , the quality of reform is more important than the timetable .
with the portuguese presidency coming to an end and the french presidency about to begin , we must now put all our energies into achieving real reform at nice to make enlargement possible , as well as other reforms later , if need be .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today .
we should not allow this plenary session to pass without paying some attention to the fact that the nobel laureate and sakharov prize winner , aung san suu kyi , is still denied her freedom .
next monday , aung san suu kyi will be 55 years old .
the military junta in burma refused permission for him to see her .
i think that it would have been better if the majority in this house had paid greater attention to the legal basis and had checked it more carefully , and if it had paid more attention to the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market on that matter .
but , in addition , there is another error , namely that the following words have been included in the english text : " with all the parties in the eu concerned , " and those words are quite simply not included in the danish text .
i would urge that a correct danish translation of the text be obtained , for i find it a very serious matter that , in point 8 concerning austria , these two mistakes have been made which , from a political point of view , completely alter the sense .
reference is made to a ' european interparliamentary body on security and defence ' .
initially i had proposed the term ' forum ' , but discussions in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy produced a compromise and we agreed o use an equivalent of the french ' organe ' instead .
but i wanted to highlight that point so that the various language versions can be corrected .
there are delays in pension payments in all 15 of the member states .
mr president , at second reading i voted against both the reduction in the payment period from 30 to 21 days , and against the proposed interest level of 8 % .
hence the interest in adopting legislation aimed at harmonising the provisions relating to late payment , due dates and the legal rate of interest at european level as soon as possible .
a legal framework needs to be established to discourage late payment and give creditors the right to fair compensation in case of late payment .
the negotiations on this text were difficult .
a common position was finally adopted on 29 may last .
the european parliament emerged from those long negotiations victorious on several crucial points .
on interest , parliament and the council reached agreement on a rate of 7 % above central european bank rate , making a total of 10.5 % at the present time .
the european parliament wanted to reduce the period after which interest is due for late payment to 21 days from the date of receipt of the invoice rather than 30 days as envisaged by the council .
in the end the period of 30 days was maintained , but with the proviso that it may give rise to action for compensation if it constitutes a manifest abuse against the creditor .
meanwhile , the project continues to sink into the bureaucratic bog .
nearly 40 % of small and medium sized enterprises in the region have trading links with other eu member states .
in a few years ' time , following the enlargement of the european union , they will have access to a potential 500m customers - as big as the american and japanese markets put together .
i voted against this measure .
through its actions , the swedish government has helped obscure this fact in the course of the debate of recent years .
there is also a lack of consistency when , on the one hand , exports of swedish snuff to other eu countries are banned for health reasons and , on the other hand , appeal is made to the free market , and health aspects are set aside on the issue of imports of alcohol .
we think it very unfortunate that the swedish social democratic government has chosen not to pursue this issue more vigorously .
because we consider that both the swedish government and the european commission have acted incorrectly on this issue , we choose to signal our rejection of their approach by abstaining in the vote on the extension to sweden ' s derogation from the council directive .
meeting of the european council in feira ( rc b5-0522 / 2000 ) mr president , i would like to make it known , on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists , that we have abstained in the vote on the final resolution , despite the fact that we clearly support the resolution on the issues which are within the competence of the european council in feira , that is to say , the intergovernmental conference and the economic and social agenda .
with regard to the case of austria , we understand that , firstly , the european parliament ' s resolution , which was voted for at the time , is still in force , since no new events have occurred ; because it is not a community issue as such , but has been raised by the fourteen member states ; because , furthermore , my group supported president klestil ' s appearance and we took good note of his positive proposals , which are in fact related to issues which come within the competence of the commission - which is not present - such as the application of article 7 and the strengthening of our community of values .
mr president , there seems to be a trial of strength going on behind the scenes , during preparations for next week ' s feira european council , between those who want to extend the intergovernmental conference agenda and those who want to cut it .
it gives me some satisfaction to say that the second category looks like winning , which suits us fine .
as i have already had occasion to say in this house and in the forum responsible for drawing up the charter , it would certainly be useful to proclaim our common values - if it is done well - but we must not deprive our peoples of the freedom to define the rights of their own citizens themselves .
i am speaking on behalf of the italian radicals in this explanation of vote to justify our vote in favour , stressing that , in spite of everything , this resolution contains important points , including the need for dialogue , the need to get past the stage of pseudo-sanctions against austria - which has not been constructive - and make sure the minutes state that the vote also includes an important request we formulated last april and which we now reiterate : review of the seat of the institutions .
parliament has spoken very clearly .
i think it is high time account was taken in the treaty reforms of our determination to insist finally on a status that makes us masters of our own procedure , and masters of our own decisions as to the seat and meeting place of our institution .
mr dell ' alba , with regard to the first part of your intervention , we are indeed in the throes of internal reform of this house .
the debate has started and your opinion on the explanations of vote will also certainly be of value in due course .
mr president , i noted that amendment no 11 included the proposition that the community should take action in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity only if and insofar as the objectives of the proposed actions cannot be adequately achieved by the member states or - and i emphasis this - their constituent states with legislative powers that have been conferred on them by national constitutional law .
i regret that the topic of subsidiarity is substantially missing from the feira resolution .
the intention in the resolution is that the charter of fundamental rights should be incorporated into the treaty in the course of the forthcoming intergovernmental conference .
mr president , i am speaking briefly to justify my abstention .
but , given the circumstances , i could not vote in favour of paragraph 8 on austria .
although , unfortunately , not everything i had hoped for appears in the joint resolution - in particular , the need for a framework directive on public services - i find many of the proposals acceptable , and on all those points it is undoubtedly one of the best resolutions we have dealt with in the current political composition of the european parliament .
however , i find myself unable to support it because of the inclusion of paragraph 8 on austria .
i was proud of the eu when it imposed sanctions on austria when the new coalition formed because of the views and actions of the freedom party : a party whose policies have xenophobia running through them like blackpool through rock ; a leader who has praised hitler and the waffen ss , refused to condemn terrorist bombings against roma and congratulates nazi war veterans for keeping to their principles .
the new revision of the treaties being promoted at the intergovernmental conference will be the main item on the agenda at the feira summit .
as always , the communist party of greece will be standing firmly by their side . - ( da ) the danish social democrats in the european parliament have today voted neither for nor against the joint resolution concerning preparations for the european council in feira on 19 and 20 june 2000 .
however , the resolution also contains a long section about the current intergovernmental conference and , in this connection , we should like to repeat that our vote in favour of the overall resolution does not alter our basic view that extending the agenda and turning the treaty into a constitution , with the charter of fundamental rights incorporated into it with binding legal effect , will not enhance the possibility of achieving a satisfactory result in nice in december , something which is absolutely crucial if the enlargement is to be able to go ahead once the countries concerned are ready .
in my opinion , it is not a question of being against the principle of returning relations with austria to normal .
it is a question of the right opportunity and time for this political change to occur .
a resolution on the european council should specify that it is up to the latter to take this political change in hand by taking advantage of its meeting in feira .
the resolution does not emphasise that enlargement must be given absolute priority .
we have voted against this resolution to affirm our opposition not only to a common european army but to national armies as well .
the past half-century shows that the armies of the great imperialist powers of europe , in alliance or each on its own hunting ground , were not there to defend the people , but to carry on wars of pillage .
the author of the report is careful not to specify which enemy the future european army is intended to fight .
consequently , not only do we refuse to vote in favour of any resources whatsoever , human or financial , for this army , but we protest against its very existence .
mr president , i would like to make an explanation of vote on behalf of my delegation and say right away that we intended to vote for amendment no 26 and paragraph 27 .
nevertheless , the crisis in the balkans has demonstrated the shortcomings of the european union .
the treaty of amsterdam made the petersberg tasks the responsibility of the union .
that leaves article 5 .
the exercise is complicated , first because it is necessary to try to clarify relations with nato , and because the united states not to mention other countries in nato which are not members of the european union , like turkey , are not making our task any easier .
to summarise , the union for a europe of nations group believes in advancing towards common security actions , provided we do not get boxed into a rigid institutional system , but instead establish flexible procedures based on voluntary input and respect for national sovereignty .
there are three consequences of that : the national democracies must always have the last word , so the operations concerned must remain in an inter-state context ; decisions can in no case be taken by majority on issues of principle ; the system must be based on the possibility of ' differentiated actions ' permitting each people to exercise its freedom of choice without discontinuity .
nor can we support the more concrete proposals in the resolution , which call for increased defence budgets in the individual member states and coordination in purchasing military equipment and establishing an actual army for the union .
together , europe and the united states are seeking to impose this army as the military arm of the imf-world bank-wto triangle .
that will not happen without a radical break from neo-liberalism .
careful consideration ought to be given to the way in which the european parliament is to be involved in the area of defence and security policy .
the proposal paves the way for the increased use of majority decision-making , over and above what is laid down in the treaty of amsterdam in connection with a common defence and security policy .
in my opinion , it should only be possible to take military action following a decision in the united nations ' security council .
i cannot , therefore , support the resolution . " women 2000 " ( rc b5-0562 / 2000 ) mr president , i would first of all like to make it clear that i am speaking on behalf of the dutch members of the edd group .
we voted against the present resolution by way of expressing our dissatisfaction regarding the conduct of the european parliament delegation during the un general assembly .
it is the presidency of the european union that speaks on behalf of the union at that kind of international conference .
because people were putting words into the mouths of various parties , particularly poland ' s , i would like to specify that as regards gender equality , poland is adopting the acquis communautaire and is not calling into question the provisions of article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam on discrimination based on gender .
i wanted to make that clear to dispel any misunderstanding about what really happened in new york .
after very acrimonious negotiations , realism in appreciating the needs of women and respect for their dignity carried the day .
along the same lines , it is a real education to note that , although they are all officially specialised in the position of women , the ngos with the largest financial resources for political communication systematically militate in favour of notions of ' reproductive health ' to the detriment of more serious and urgent needs , thus offering unfailing support to the european and american delegations .
in any case , if this conference was ultimately a success for women all over the world , that was mainly thanks to the realism and resistance of the poorest countries , which were able to by-pass western ideological polemics about sexuality to promote practical measures against poverty - like ' micro-credit ' , against international trafficking in women and against lack of education and medical provision .
if the voice of the poorest countries was finally able to make itself heard last saturday around 4 a.m .
this was obviously not the case , neither in new york during the beijing + 5 conference , nor in our debate in this parliament yesterday .
regarding paragraph h of this resolution , " sexual rights " is an undefined term not included in article 13 of the amsterdam treaty nor in the beijing + 5 platform for action .
forgive me mr president , but i feel that these matters must be dealt with while the time is ripe , for otherwise , if we do not speak out , these demonstrations will end up being perceived as the norm .
i thank the members for their important communication .
it is truly unacceptable to denigrate and insult the democratic legitimacy of any country or its institutions , or of the european institutions .
as you are aware , the sound and efficient implementation of the structural funds is of fundamental importance for the credibility and effectiveness of the community institutions , in particular the european parliament , considering its monitoring functions .
our report , which was adopted unanimously , takes note of the fact that all the resources available for 1998 were fully taken up but it also records that there are still considerable divergences in implementation between objectives , between the member states and between regions , and that this full take-up was only made possible by mechanisms for offsetting over- and under-implementation , which , in fact , made the implementation of the budget non-transparent .
this is because we are convinced that we can only reduce the structural divergences between european regions and areas through coordinated action .
we have also noted that , although there was an inexplicable and dangerous fall in the number of on-the-spot checks carried out under the regulation in 1998 compared to the previous year , they have brought to light a whole range of shortcomings , from an insufficient number of monitoring schemes in certain programmes to the co-financing of non-admissible expenditure .
as a result , we consider that the commission ' s checks in 1998 were , unfortunately , still unsatisfactory , and that they must be sufficiently strengthened in order to guarantee proper implementation of the structural funds regulations .
in our report , we therefore call upon the european commission and the member states to adopt a number of actions as soon as possible to strengthen controls and to keep parliament better informed of measures adopted to increase transparency and improve the implementation of the structural funds .
finally , commissioner , i would like to stress that our report is consistent with the opinion you expressed on 5 june last in brussels , when you stressed that , in the interests of transparency , even the smallest european taxpayer has to know where and how community resources appropriated to the structural funds are spent .
i will leave to you the task of assessing whether a commission report such as the 1998 report allows , i will not say the smallest , but any of the european taxpayers to satisfy their desire .
mr president , lastly , i would like to explain my position regarding the seven amendments which will be put to the vote on friday .
i , myself , have tabled a technical amendment , the third amendment , which corrects a transcription error likely to cause confusion and make paragraph 28 inconsistent with the rest of the report .
however , i cannot accept amendment no 4 , amendment no 5 , amendment no 6 or amendment no 7 , for i consider that they misrepresent the rest of the report .
for my part , mr president , i am going to concentrate on just point : the need to coordinate structural fund interventions with other community policies , an issue the rapporteur is likewise very concerned about .
i shall be particularly grateful to commissioner barnier if he can tell us whether the commission has looked at this aspect of the problem in the context of the re-examination of competition policy , and if he could tell us where the commission has got to in its thinking on this subject .
however , i have chosen to speak in today 's debate because some of the issues discussed in the report are at the core of what must be addressed if the european institutions themselves are to lift the cloud of mismanagement and waste which hangs over them from previous times .
many positive changes have taken place since that time , not least since the new commission took over .
we have before us an opportunity to concentrate the minds of both the commission and the recipients - member states and others - of this valuable eu assistance , on the criticisms identified in the report in many areas concerning the allocation of funds and the lack of monitoring of their use .
none of us here would personally enter into a business or private financial agreement without being sure of how and when that obligation would come to an end .
failure to act will result in the particular problems highlighted in this report .
this is particularly so in my home region , the west midlands , where this delay is causing a great deal of uncertainty to local communities and the local taxpayers , who are having to underwrite the projects to the tune of many millions of pounds , pending the resolution of the problems i have outlined .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , if economic and social cohesion is rightly called the core of european policy , then it is safe to say that the structural funds act as its pacemaker .
however , i would like to strengthen one demand , and that is the demand that in its next report the commission should devote a special section to reporting on the measures which it has adopted in response to criticisms voiced by parliament in previous years .
the 11th annual report should , therefore , at the same time include a progress report .
for example , in the case of objective 1 areas , it is frequently only partly true to say that there is an independent structural policy to which the european component is added .
this is often because all the funding available in political terms has already had to be committed to guarantee adequate cofinancing , and rightly so .
in this way our structural policy itself will contribute to regionalisation .
fourthly , controls and assessments are the alpha and omega of any structural policy that has the noble objective of making itself superfluous as quickly as possible .
only in this way can we make horizontal comparisons between strategies and projects between member states in individual areas of activity .
it is therefore worth remembering that regional and structural policy in the european union as a whole is a response to the specific disadvantages confronting certain european regions and , in particular , the outermost regions such as madeira , the azores , the canary islands and the french overseas departments .
in fact , articles 158 and 159 of the treaty set the objectives for economic and social cohesion , giving regional policy the task of reducing the existing differences between the less developed regions and the others .
in view of the challenge of an enlarged union , which will in future have 28 or more member states , we can no longer afford not to use european money for european objectives such as employment , sustainability , environmental protection and equal opportunities in an efficient way .
i am emphasising this because i have the impression that the new programmes are once again being approved because of pressure from the member states , although they do not provide for optimum use of funds in accordance with europe ' s objectives .
we cannot afford , as we did in 1998 , to spend eur 30.4 billion only to find that unemployment is increasing again in the poorer regions .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it is once again time for us to consider a commission report on the implementation of structural funds appropriations , this time for 1998 , and to express the views of our group .
and this dissatisfaction is all the greater when you consider that the continuing regional differences , as measured in income per capita , are particularly reflected in unemployment figures .
even though there has been a reduction in unemployment in the eu in absolute terms in recent months , the total number of people without jobs is still far too high .
if we were to use this issue alone to gauge the success of structural fund policy , we would pass a devastatingly negative judgment on it .
we learn that the implementation rate for programmes in 1998 remained satisfactory , although only slightly under 90 % of total support was achieved for commitments , and 61 % for payments .
